526690:US	40684262	R3BN83RSEHQYJP	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	5	16	27	N	N	Trace, Patricia Cornwell	I have some rather exciting news to report: Trace is not awful, plus, there's nary a wolfman in sight!. Indeed, people who have gone off Cornwell over the last few years may well be gratified by this. I can't say I haven't been a bit miffed with all the Cornwell-bashing that's been going on (whatever anyone may claim, she has not been THAT bad), but I can at least understand why some fans haven't been too pleased of late. The problem is that now almost everyone has been conditioned into dislike. However, while Trace does have a few problems (I'll get to them later), she gets several things damn right, and goes right back to what made the series so sucessful in the first place: forensics, and Scarpetta.  <br /> <br />After being fired five years ago, Kay Scarpetta has largely been doing consultancy work. Now, she is called back to Richmond to take a look at a case. 14 year-old Gilly Paulsson is dead, but shouldn't be. Despite her oddly-behaved mother's insistence that she \\"died from flu\\", no cause of death can be ascertained. None at all. There is no reason why she died. Under pressure from on high, Scarpetta's successor Dr Joel Marcus phones her in Florida. Thus Dr Kay Scarpetta returns.  <br /> <br />Returns to a Richmond where her old building is being demolished, and where the medical examiner system is in chaos after four and a half years without a permanent chief. Things aren't getting better under Marcus, either: he's pretty incompetent, and resents Scarpetta. Cornwell actually does very well with Marcus; despite the fact that he's rather petty, you may feel a tiny shred of sympathy for a man completely unable to step out of Scarpetta's shadow. Oh, and he has a fear of garbage trucks, which, I'm sorry, may be a bit wacky, but is a stroke of genius. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, niece Lucy is having problems as well. Henri, an agent from her investigation agency, The Last Precinct, has been attacked in Lucy's home. While Lucy investigates suspicious evidence left atthe scene, Henri is shipped off to Aspen to the care of Benton Wesley, who will attempt to help her recover memories of the attack. Interspersed among all this is the creepy figure of Edgar Allan Pogue, who is a little too fond of dead bodies... <br /> <br />As I say, Trace is not at all bad. It's pretty damn good, in fact. Some of the initial scenes, in which Scarpetta returns to Richmond and witnesses the upheaval at the ME's office, are absolute magic, actually. Fans will be delighted to see so much of Scarpetta, as well. She gets about 2/3 of the book, with the rest going to Lucy, Benton, and the eponymous Edgar Allan. It may not be in the first person, but that isn't the point. Cornwell may (and, in truth, probably should) return to that soon, but for now fans must simply accept the change, accept that things are different. People shouldn't automatically disparage it for being third-person, but say \\"Regardless of what went before, is this good in its own right, on its own terms?\\" The answer, I feel, is definitely yes. In its own context, the third-person does work well here, very well. The present tense does as well (when they're done right, I adore novels in the present tense). There are a few shaky constructions, certainly, but otherwise I found the style refreshing and rather addictive. Cornwell has always been a great descriptive writer, and that's not changed. Especially here, when the third-person present tense actually enhances it. One character is described as having \\"eyes the color of winter\\", which I just loved. There are many other examples as well.   <br /> <br />Trace is also a satisfying forensic conundrum as well. Cornwell has tended to drift away from forensics lately, but here she goes back to basics, and they're excellent, which helps to present Scarpetta in her element. The science has always been a strong area - Reichs or Slaughter may be good enough, but neither will ever be Cornwell in terms of forensics. It must also be noted that the dark cloud that had settled over the series, that so many fans whined about, has pretty much lifted here. I was also mightily pleased by the way Cornwell leaves tiny shards of mystery hanging, for the reader to figure out themselves.  <br /> <br />It's not a book without its problems, though. Cornwell could have done herself a lot of favours if the culprit wasn't a person with a grudge against Scarpetta - although admittedly she does succeed despite that, but I think more by chance than design. Some other aspects are a tiny bit weird, a little shaky, but passable, and while it's true that Cornwell has a tendency to deify Scarpetta, one or two reviews I've seen have greatly exaggerated that, taking sentences way out of their context and annoying me heartily.  <br /> <br />In my mind, it's about time people stopped complaining that every novel isn't Postmortem, but that's neither here nor there. Trace ain't perfect, and I'm sure some people will still hate it regardless. But for my money this 13th Scarpetta entry is Cornwell's best book in at least half a decade. <br />	2004-09-09
655167:US	40684262	R220GW0NXNTD22	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	5	2	4	N	N	.	\\"Stay out of the narrows...\\", <br />the children of Los Angeles are told. Of Connelly's 14th novel, which takes its name from the LA flood drainage system, it is advice best taken. If you are new to his work, that is - because THE NARROWS is essentially both a coming together of all Connelly's work up to this point, and, I think, a renaissance. If you're a long-term reader, disregard it entirely. Dive in. Indeed, you probably already have.<br />The Poet is back in business. The serial killer escaped at the conclusion of Connelly's novel of the same name. The official word, though, was that he had been killed. But now he's surfaced again, and leads the FBI to a site in the barren Mojave desert where they begin to uncover fresh victims. The FBI brings in agent Rachel Walling, who worked the original case, as an advisor. Meanwhile, in L.A....an old acquaintance of Harry Bosch's dies. His widow comes to the retired homicide-detective-turned-PI and asks him to investigate, citing some very suspicious circumstances that suggest the death was anything but natural.<br />The pre-publication buzz about this novel was remarkable - helped along no doubt by the fact that no advanced copies were doled out, destined in the end for sites like eBay. The level of hype may be part of the reason why I'm a little disappointed. Hell, not very though, it's still a terrific book. Although while I was suspecting it might be Connelly's best, it's not quite. <br />As I've said, THE NARROWS is a melding of all his work to date. As a result, it is actually not quite as convincing as all the other Bosch novels unfailingly are. Too, Connelly has always been excellent at stitching his work into real-life; other authors often try, but the result often seems perfunctory and vacuous. Here, though, while the copious references might absolutely delight some fans, I thought he went slightly over the top, referencing to such an extent that it sometimes becomes rather surreal, making this book neither ofthis world nor quite of the fictional one - it seems to exist in an awkward limbo. Sometimes, the touches are magical, but here I think he's trying slightly too hard - after all, the reader is all too aware of the true nature of Connelly's world, and the fact that these characters and events don't exist in reality, just their own internal one - even if it's nice to think that, somewhere, they may do, and no matter how many times they chat about the movie Blood Work. (It was nice to see Ian Rankin, though, if only in pictorial rather than corporeal form!)<br />All that above, though, is just me being pedantic and silly. Because, when it comes right down to it, I did love this book. I didn't even mind too much that we don't spend a lot of time in L.A., Connelly's evocation of which is masterful and a great strength of his series. After a while, I didn't at all miss the exceptional passages about the city. Mainly because I didn't have time to, the plot moves at such thrilling pace. It's slick, engrossing, and interlocks just as excellently as it did in The Poet.  I certainly would not be surprised if Connelly, and his characters, came back from this work even stronger than before. Considering that he's probably the best crime writer in America, that bodes incredibly well. He's also the most accomplished crime writer I know at keeping his series fresh, and once again there's a wealth of new directions he could go after this. <br />THE NARROWS is very well-written, very enjoyable, and very clever. It shows a crime-writer writing as crime-writers write best. The conclusion, incorporating the aforementioned narrows, is tense and, along with a nice twist, forms an excellent culmination to the book. <br />The last word, though, must go to Bosch. Almost stereotypically fascinating, he stands out because he is probably the least static protagonist in all crime fiction. Both his situation and his character are continually undergoing an evolution, and of course even more is to come now that he's discovered he's a parent:<BR>\\"All I knew was that I didn't want to teach her anything. I felt tainted by the paths I had taken in my life and the things I knew. I had nothing from it I wanted her to have. I just wanted her to teach me.\\"	2004-05-25
655337:US	40684262	R2CDO4D3TQJG9R	0060583304	658214094	Like a Charm: A Novel in Voices	Books	4	22	23	N	N	sucessful collection	The basis of this short-story collection is an original and intriguing one: each story, while entirely independent, follows the life of a charm bracelet, from its creation in Georgia in 1803, through time and across oceans, until it eventually ends up back in Georgia again. In each story, the bracelet plays its part, almost always brining bad luck to the one who has come to possess it. It's a short-story collection that could almost be read as a quirky novel. The only downside to this idea is that the connections of each story, through the life of the charm bracelet, should in some cases be made a lot clearer - once or twice it was hard or impossible to create a logical connection between one story and the next, and the old \\"so and so bought in an Pawn/Antique Shop\\" device was greatly overused - then as a whole this collection would be more powerful than it is. <br />The stories are incredibly varied; set in times and places as different as the American South in the 19th century to wartime Leeds in the 20th. In one, an accusation has dire consequences. In another, a train journey becomes anything but mundane. A sax player ends up getting more than he bargained for when he does a favour for a friend. A school-teacher's outing to London turns altogether more twisted. And a desperate writer makes a fateful purchase in exchange for inspiration...<br />I am very much a devotee of the short-story; they are perfect for slotting into a dead half-hour, ideal if you want a single-sitting read. Quick pleasure, instant satisfaction - if they're of quality. And, if you pick right - maybe one of Ruth Rendell's beautifully twisted masterpieces, of Ian McEwan's elegant, concise works - then they can be just as good as a novel. While the stories here aren't really of that quality (well, except for one; I'll get to that in a minute) they do align into a very good, entertaining and satisfying collection. Each piece is taut and well-tuned, written with the sharp succinctity and abilityto shock that marks out the best of the form. Some of the writers you will have heard of: Peter Robinson, Mark Billingham, and Lee Child, for example. Others maybe not: Emma Donohue, for example, whose story \\"Vanitas\\" is an excellent little piece set on a plantation in the South. And Peter Moore Smith, or Jerrilyn Farmer, writer of the penultimate story \\"The Eastlake School\\", a twisted piece of brilliance.  There are definitely a couple of writers here whose work I will be endeavouring to find out more about after reading this. You may too. <br />Here, all the stories are good (that is pleasing in itself - in every collection there are normally one or two mis-fires) but some of them are excellent: Robinson's \\"Cornelius Jubb\\", for example, or \\"Plan B\\" by Kelley Armstrong, to name just two among several. However, one story here does stand far, far above them all, and that is John Connolly's \\"The Inkpot Monkey\\". It's the sort of story of which one might say \\"it alone is worth the price of this book\\", but for the fact that it would be rather silly to actually contemplate spending $20+ on just 15 pages of text. The sentiment remains the same, though. It is an eerie, slightly surreal tale about a man suffering writer's block who goes to great lengths in order to rediscover his muse. Told with flair and punch, is explores several themes, such as, What does it mean to be a writer? More precisely, What of themselves do writers put into their work? What is required of them, what must they give in order to create and be inspired? And, ultimately, Is it worth it? And, having given it, What then? It is a brilliant, remarkable story, and is the real gem of this pleasing, ingenuitive collection. Despite the fact that the sometimes poor linkage takes away from the concept of this collection, Like A Charm is worth a look for fans of this form.	2004-05-25
675114:US	40684262	R6VBYJCWFPNKH	1400060516	278968536	Murder on the Leviathan: A Novel	Books	5	42	45	N	N	funny, eccentric, ingenious!	I'm afraid I might have done Boris Akunin a great disservice. I thought The Winter Queen was a decidedly average read; I didn't find the plot too gripping, and I disliked the style. Now, there's nothing I can do about the plot: I've simply never been fond of \\"adventure\\" stories, so I'm not particularly going to like a pastiche of one, either - as The Winter Queen was. However, I must have been in some bizarre mood, because I found the style of Leviathan to be an absolute delight!<br />This is the third Erast Fandorin novel - the second to be translated into English (Turkish Gambit, the real 2nd, is scheduled for publication in December). Here, we see less of Fandorin than we did in TWQ, or it certainly seems like it. This is partly because Leviathan is told from five different perspectives. One is that of French \\"Investigator of Especially Important Cases\\", Gustav Gauche (who definitely lives up to his name); the remaining four perspectives are those of four main suspects in a murder inquiry (two of these are told in the 3rd person, two in the 1st). Thus we see Fandorin through only their eyes, making him a decidedly enigmatic and intriguing detective.<br />The crime being investigated is the murder, in Paris, of Lord Littleby, collector of fine things, and nine members of his staff. (Yes, nine.) Due to a clue left at the crime scene (in the form of a badge shaped as a golden whale), Gauche deduces that the murderer will be one of the passengers on the steamship Leviathan - newly built and embarking upon its maiden voyage to Calcutta. He boards the ship and begins his enquiries, trying to sift out the murder from the 142 first-class passengers (yes, 142.)<br />As evidenced partly by the ridiculous number of suspects and murder victims (in the end it totals 11), Akunin is clearly having a good time pointing fun at the traditions of the detective genre. And he does it very well indeed. Leviathan is an excellent detective story in its own right, while all the while itgently makes fun of itself and the genre - as TWQ did with espionage fiction. It is a hilarious novel at times; a brilliant, incredibly clever pastiche. <br />Akunin's main source here is, of course, Agatha Christie. The set-up is immediately recognisable as almost classic Christie, a la Murder on the Orient Express or Death on the Nile. He even manages to work in Cards on the Table and The Clocks (particularly hilariously!) among others, and that is on top off the usual Russian literary influences. For example, one of the periphery characters mentioned is named \\"Marcel Prout\\".<br />Leviathan is an absolutely excellent novel. I would recommend it to anyone. It is not necessary to have read The Winter Queen, and I'd probably advise that you just jump straight in here. Akunin's 2nd novel in translation is an incredibly sharp, teasing, funny, and ingenious mystery, with a great set of characters. A Japanese passenger, one of the four main suspects, is particularly wonderful. Certainly, it was his sections of the book I enjoyed most of all, highlighting fascinatingly the class of 19th century cultures. Plus, his sections of narrative are the only time I have ever come across a book that is part-written in what I can only describe as \\"landscape\\".	2004-05-09
676099:US	40684262	RQ4DDKPODMBIS	0743260953	33541163	Twisted: The Collected Stories of Jeffery Deaver	Books	4	2	2	N	N	excellent short story collection	From reading Deaver's novels, it is abundantly clear that his style, and his love of injecting a twist into a story, would be perfectly suited to the short story form. \\"Twisted\\" proves that that is true. <br />This is a collection of 16 of his stories (apparently the first of a planned two volumes), some of them award-winning, all of them excellent examples of how to write crime genre short stories. If you don't like the crime genre, though, I would you against this collection. If you prefer literature, you'll find them fatuous. They are, I suppose - they mean little and the characters are pretty hollow when it comes right down to it. However, if you want a good series of shocks and surprises, this really is the collection for you. It is EXCELLENT in that respect. <br />Some of the stories are absolutely excellent. For example, \\"Triangle\\" is possible a work of crime-writing genius. Absolutely brilliant.  Every story has an unexpected twist. It's possible that you may be able to guess a couple, as you gradually work your way into Deaver's mindset, as I did, but even seeing twists coming, I think, gives you a great sense of satisfaction. There are one or two entertaining oddities, too. \\"All The World's A Stage\\" is a historical crime story, in which Shakespeare pops up. Some of the dialogue is laughable, the historical detail suspect, but the story itself is absolutely cracking. Despite it's flaws, it's very fine entertainment indeed.<br />They're written excellently, in just the way crime short stories should be. Every sentence is telling; every sentence has its function and does its work. Characters are developed as well as they can be in such small frames, and plots are wrought well too. <br />The only problem with a collection like this, is that, when stripped down, all 16 stories are rather similar, certainly in their devices. If you read this book as you would a novel, all in one go, I can imagine them getting pretty repetitive. It is probably best to read a story every couple of days. That's what I did, and I really enjoyed this. It was a great pleasure to be lead by the hand by Mr Deaver, and be surprised and then surprised again.	2004-05-08
679292:US	40684262	R3FPRPYBJ3Q8LF	0061043370	474570269	Death at La Fenice	Books	5	4	5	N	N	superb debut	I've read Leon's books out of order, but I don't think it really matters. They are simply excellent, however you read them. Death at la Fenice is the first, and is surprisingly assured and polished for a debut that was written after a challenge from a friend. Given that this is a first performance, Leon was clearly a natural writer for this genre. <br />This is the first apearance of Guido Brunetti, who is called in to investigate after the death of an eminent conductor part-way through a performance of La Triviata. He was poisoned in his dressing room. The press will be baying for a solution; with every day that passes when this murderer roams free a great slur is wrought on the name of Venice. <br />As Brunetti diligently digs away, he uncovers a portrait of a complex and fascinating man, but one who has made a very unhealthy number of enemies on his way to the top...<br />Anyone anywhere who is a fan of crime novels simply cannot ignore Donna Leon. You must pick up one of her sublime books  immediately, and you are gauranteed enjoyment. There is such an easy to the writing, and she plots so very well. It moves along at excellent pace, and all manner of secrets and suspects creep fromt he woodwork, and she still manages to produce an absolutely astounding solution which is incredibly satisfying indeed, despite the fact that it seems to break one crime fictions golden rules. That matters not, though; Donna Leon can do absolutely anything. In terms of crime novels, she can do no wrong at all.<br />Death at la Fenice is a first-class piece of fiction, and Venice makes for an inspired backdrop which she utilises very well indeed. Buy it.	2004-05-05
694986:US	40684262	R1XWS7WO6QI3PJ	0525947701	115797132	Vodka	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Astouding quality	Vodka is important in Russia. Very  important. As a character puts it in one beautiful soliloquy: \\"It is our lifeblood; the defining symbol of Russian identity. It is our main entertainment, our main currency, our main scourge. Vodka effects every aspect of Russian life...it is the great equaliser. If there's one things which unites the President with the frozen drunk found dead on a street, it is Vodka... What's Vodka if not all things to all men? Every aspect of the human condition finds its reflection in Vodka, and its exaggeration, too. Russians drink from grief and from joy, to be warmed in the cold, and cooled in the heat, because we are tired and to get tired.\\"<br />So, as with the Spice on Herbert's Dune, he who controls vodka controls Russia. This is why, in the immediate days after the fall of communism has left the economy in ruins, the rouble worthless and vodka as the only currency (people are healed with it; people are tortured with it; people's salaries are paid in it; peopled are bribed with it) the largest distillery in the country, Red October, is selected as the vehicle to lead the push for privatisation. The quick success of the venture, the selling of such a national symbol, is hoped to convince the Russian people that western capitalism is the only way forward. To organise the privatisation, American banker Alice Liddell is brought in. However, despite her experience the task will not be easy. The Russian people - who \\"enchant with their arts and inspire with their courage, but have horror, tragedy and drunkenness spiralling through their genes\\" - are sceptical and thus resistant, and rival mafiya gangs are busy vying for control of the city, leeching off the power vacuum. Lev, the charismatic leader of one of the gangs, currently owns Red October, and Alice - whose life, like that of Russia, I notice is also torn between new and old, comfort and danger, sanity and madness - must first get past him. The great bear, after the fall of the old regime, is stumbling blind, dangerously, into its future, and chaos and uncertainty are the only norms. So, little attention is paid when the body of a child is pulled from the icy Moscow River. And a second. And then a third.<br />The plot of Vodka is very hard to pin down, because it is a multi-stranded, multi-plotted Janus of a book. In a way, the plot itself is Russia; it exemplifies Russia in all ways. Starling's examination of a country lost in its own wilderness is absolutely astounding. I have never been so struck by wonderful lines such as, \\"like vodka, the onion is another perfect symbol of Russia. Onions have many layers; and the more you peel away, the more you weep.\\" <br />Alice, an outsider who finds herself adrift in a huge confusing land, is a perfect internal reflection of the country itself, and the book is crammed full of other instances of symbolism and metaphor far too clever to be written about in this small space. Set during 100 days in the winter of 1991 (and with one chapter per day, that makes it a meaty tome), it is a tumbleweed of violence, emotion, politics and transition blowing down an icy, deserted street. It is big and complex, panoramic and epic. <br />The narrative structure too is incredible: it expands and contracts like a Chinese finger-trap as the focus is placed on the political big picture, the distillery and the politick, and then successively switched onto the developing relationship between Alice and Lev (which is less convincing in actuality than it is as a progressive metaphor), and the bleak investigation by a determined Estonian policeman into the child murders. The structure breathes and propels you along with the waves of pace created by the shifts of that focus. A big book it may be, but overlong it is definitely not, and fascinating it is to the final word. <br />Starling's vision is powerful and all-encompassing, and there are more than enough profound and striking ruminations on the nature of Russia (and vodka!) tofill a small notebook. One of my favourites is, \\"There is no such thing as Russian cuisine, only things that go well with vodka.\\"<br />The portrait of the country he clearly adores is a remarkable achievement. It is a country where the only system of law that works is the rule of the mafiya. The politicians are corrupt, and the gang-leaders are the only people of any honour - and it is an honour they stick to with pride. Lev, portrayed as he is almost to be the \\"hero\\" of the piece, is incensed when a rival Chechen gang breaks the code and involves innocent members of the public, and his retribution is swift and deadly. It is a world turned on its head, and it is entirely convincing. In all honesty, I am awed by Starling's immense achievement. I ache for more.<br />The ending, too, is perfect. As the novel ends, with the same lines as it began, as Starling seals tight this vast echo-chamber of a novel and sends resonances eddying through the body of it, the serpent eats its own tail; the monster consumes itself and the book, and Russia, seems to come full circle. As it is put by one Moscow official, \\"every Russian crime is cannibalistic to some extent; no people feed on and off each other more than the Russians.\\"	2004-04-23
720751:US	40684262	R20XC7DKLVWME7	0399151346	119325771	Death's Acre: Inside the Legendary Forensic Lab, The Body Farm, Where the Dead Do Tell Tales (includes 16 pages of B&W photos)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	very interesting work on forensics	In all honesty, this book labours under a pretty distinct false pretence. Well, an implied one. From the blurb and the cover, you may infer this to be a book about the Anthropology Research Facility (or, to give it its more colourful soubriquet, the body farm) but it isn't really. The implied impression is misleading. Instead, it is really a biography of Dr Bill Bass who is, as the author info puts it, a \\"colossus of forensic anthropology\\". Among other topics, it charts his career in forensics, from when he first began excavating Arikara graves in South Dakota, to the present day. He presents us with some of his most striking cases, with several chapters almost turning into short forensic detective stories. <br />As background along the way, we are also treated to a brief history of forensic anthropology. We see the development of the science, and how crucial techniques investigators now use in their work first came into being. The \\"body farm\\", of course, does feature, sometimes very heavily, but it is not really the focus of the book. Still, readers who pick this up solely for a book about the farm shouldn't be disappointed; we still discover plenty about it and its history, still get an insight into its workings, the methods of those who work there to investigate the processes at work on the body after death, and still get plenty of anecdotes about how the work at the body farm has helped in many forensic cases. There's a wealth of information, but there is a lot more about other general matters. <br />\\"Death's Acre\\" is possibly the perfect book for anyone who is marginally interested in forensics. It doesn't glorify it by any means (anyway, is it possible to truly glorify decaying flesh?) or remove any of the unpleasantness, but it does present it in a riveting light. It treats its subject with respect, and goes into a detail that is fascinating but never brutal or exploitive.<br />It is also a strangely warm book. There's a strong humanity which comes through from Dr Bass himself. He both loves his subject and hates that it is necessary. It is his personality which softens this book, gives it its compassion and humour and removes some of the harsh edge. Some may not welcome that, but I did. It may cover a sometimes unpleasant topic, but it is strangely comforting.<br />Something else that makes this such an interesting and unthreatening read is the language. Techniques are explained well (even if the writing does feed off a truly American adulation of acronyms) and the science comes to life. <br />There are a couple of downsides, though. At times, the descriptive writing is rather awkwardly melodramatic. Phrases are thrown in to add drama and instead had me rolling my eyes. \\"Dr Snow and I were located in Lexington, just thirty miles from the scene of that early-morning truck collision. Although I didn't know it at the time, I was about to collide head-on with my future,\\" for example. This sort of overblown language just didn't sit right. For the most part, though, is well-told and entertaining to read, and I admit that I did think a one or two of the descriptions were rather inspired, as in the case of \\"a rattlesnake with a neck as thick as a grave-digger's wrist\\". <br />I must also admit that by the finish the constant flow of unidentified bodies was growing tiresome. There are a quite of few of these sorts of cases covered in detail, and I got a little bored of our team of intrepid investigators receiving phone calls and tramping out to scenes, then having to undergo the arduous task of identifying skeletons again and again. It was interesting the first couple of times, but by the end I felt so acquainted with the process that I was keen to have a bash myself and get it over with. (\\"Ah, yes. The pubic symphysis has clearly ossified. From this I can conclude that our victim was...\\")<br />Overall, though, this is warm, entertaining and informative trawl through the history and techniques of forensic anthropology, Dr Bill Bass's life, and the body farm. For those interested in the subject (and I imagine many who read crime fiction are) then this comes highly recommended.	2004-04-03
738141:US	40684262	R2SQ8K0JN5H0UJ	0743487842	425555121	Bad Men: A Thriller (Connolly, John)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	adequate is the word	Bad men are coming to the island of Sanctuary. These bad men, led by the vicious Moloch, are coming to seek out and punish Rita, his wife, who before running away to hide from him on the quiet, insular island, stole two important things from Moloch: his son and a substantial amount of cash.<br />Sanctuary itself has a bloody history: in 1693 a group of settlers on the island were betrayed to their enemies and slaughtered. Since then, the island has rested in three hundred years of peace. But, now the Bad Men are on the way; the Bad Men with their violence and malintent, and strange things are starting to happen on Sanctuary. The inhabitants can sense them, sense the changes. The island is waking once more. It is restless now, and it will not tolerate the shedding of blood any longer. Yet still the bad men come. <br />Clearly, this supernatural novel is a departure from Connolly's normal work. But is it? Well, actually, not really. His books have always been smattered with supernatural happenings among the violence, ghostly goings-on, and they have worked to brilliant atmospheric effect in his Charlie Parker novels. However, this one is a full-blown supernatural thriller (with, strangely, hints of a Western about it - as the bad guys breeze into town and the Sheriff stands up against them - which is odd but invigorating). He takes the horror and mystical elements, and puts them all in one book, underpinned by the traditional thriller template. Obviously it is a risk for any author to depart from their norm. The important question is: does it work? The answer is yes, partly. <br />Without any doubt, Connolly writes with lyrical brilliance, as exemplified marvellously by the opening to the book: \\"Moloch dreams. In the darkness of a Virginia prison cell, he stirs like an old demon goaded by memories of its lost humanity,\\" and nothing can take that away from him. Bad Men is a pleasure if only for the ethereal, vivid prose which bathes the descriptions in a sunset-like glow. It is also a pleasure for the presence of Melancholy Joe Dupree, the giant policeman who guards the island. He is a masterpiece of a character: gentle, damaged by the isolation caused by his physical difference, lonely, and yet prepared to go to great lengths of violence to do his duty, he will not be forgotten easily once the book is put down. The other characters, though, are nothing really special or very well well-drawn. <br />The supernatural elements, too, are merely adequate. Personally, sometimes I felt that they actually took away from the power of the story in some instances. Sometimes, they contributed, along with the Western schemas, to the fact that the main plot thrust is, on occasion, pretty predictable, and bits dragged because of that. In others, though, the horror and supernatural influences do create a brilliant eerie atmosphere and some excellent paths for the story, and the haunting recurring image of those grey moths is not going to leave me for some distinct while. <br />For those that lament the fact that this isn't a Parker book, he does make a brief appearance, even though I know that that is no real consolation. He will return (indeed, in 2005 I believe, with \\"The Black Angel\\"). And, I am sure that as Connolly stretches his literary wings in this fashion, he will be back all the better for it. If nothing else, this book will allow Connolly to grow and develop as a writer, which can only be to the benefit of his series. In the meantime, pick up Bad Men and enjoy. It's not excellent, but it's adequate, and the electrifying show-down finale is undeniably thrilling reading. Bad Men is just about worth its money.	2004-03-21
741116:US	40684262	R3P7XFXZF71UG8	0440218659	467197478	The Crocodile Bird	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Possibly her best book	Because I am lazy, by way of a synopsis I am just going to copy from this book's blurb:<br />Liza and her mother have led a strange, enclosed life in their remote home, the gatehouse of a country mansion. But now all this must end. Eve has told Liza she must leave. Because Eve has killed a man. And he is not the first. <br />At seventeen years of age, with £100 in cash, Liza is cast adrift into a terrifying world she has never known. But she is not alone. For there is one secret that she has kept from her mother - her love-affair with Sean, the young man from the big house. With him, Liza gradually learns about the world, about herself, and must come to terms with the possibility that the murderous violence of her mother may also be present in her.<br />The Crocodile Bird (I love that title) is one of those very curious Rendell titles: one that is more literature than a crime novel, and one that is also very close to the style of the books published under her Barbara Vine name, in that it deals heavily with ideas about the effect of hidden crimes from the past coming to haunt the present. Indeed, this should probably have been published under that other name, so similar is it in style.<br />If I were forced to pick a favourite title by Rendell...no, strike that. I couldn't possibly choose a favourite. If I were forced to pick a top five, this would unquestionably be in there somewhere. Thinking about it, though, I am finding it hard to elucidate upon exactly why, apart from saying something like, It's brilliant. It is, that is true, but there is far more that can be said about it. <br />Everything about it is fascinating: How Liza copes as she is forced to venture out alone into the world and \\"discover\\" everything her mother has kept hidden from her; the relationship between Liza and her mother: the developing relationship between Liza and Shaun, as she gradually grows more dependent, away from her \\"protector\\"; the gradual unfolding of the events from the past, andthe tale of Liza's upbringing, isolated in the gatehouse. Its atmosphere grows incrementally more sinister as Rendell sticks each needle into the doll with relish.<br />It's not as crime-ey as her other books; there's little mystery, only carefully explored tension. It is delicate and graceful, and the ending is a delight. It is entirely different in tone from the norm of Rendell finales: it is less catastrophic, and unlike many of her books little of the restrained brutality manages to seep out into the conclusion. Instead, we have an ending that tells us that sometimes, things may not turn out as badly as we expect. They may not turn out as we would wish, but people can overcome hurdles and the damage of their lives and have functional, normal lives. We are not necessarily confined by our upbringing.<br />It's a fascinating, compelling and powerful book. Observing Liza as she finds her way in the world is a priceless experience. Rendell shows us the quirks of our world, and she makes the mundane aspects of it which we are all so familiar with seem magical and remarkable, when seen from the eyes of one who has never known it before. This, in all justice, should have been Booker-winning stuff.	2004-03-18
743365:US	40684262	R11O48YXLO1SQF	0345345304	420502728	The Best Man to Die (Inspector Wexford)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	My continual rantings about Rendell must be getting tiresome	As I'm lazy, I'm just going to copy out the official blurb (plus, I can't say it any better):<br />Jack Pertwee was getting married in the morning.<br />Charlie Hatton drove his lorry eleven hours down from Leeds just to be there. Charlie was Jack's best friend and he would be his best man. When the two parted at the Kingsbrook bridge, jack felt as though his life was just beginning. But for Charlie Hatton, life was about to end. <br />Detective Chief Inspector Wexford wondered why the fatal Fanshawe car accident kept upsetting his concentration on the Hatton murder. There couldn't be a connection. Fanshawe had been a wealthy stockbroker, Charlie Hatton a cocky little lorry driver with some illegal dealing. <br />But was it just a coincidence that Hatton had been killed on the day following that of Mrs Fanshawe's regaining consciousness?<br />On first read, several years ago when I was about 12, this book didn't strike me as one of the greatest Wexford's. On re-reading it, my estimation is much, much improved. The Best Man to Die is another excellent Wexford novel from Rendell's early period. It doesn't have the wonderful, vicious darkness of Wolf to the Slaughter or the unique quality of Some Lie or Some Die, but it remains a very very excellent and clever mystery that will likely confound even the most practiced of crime-fiction readers. It did me, even though I had read it before! I could remember, just about, who, but for the life of me I had no idea why, until Rendell revealed all in one of those excellent last-revelation chapters that she does so so well. <br />At this point in the series, neither Wexford nor Burden had begun to fully develop quite yet; primarily these early books are plot novels and character foible novels. Still, Wexford is certainly beginning to show hints of how interesting he is, and his family life begins to take on the wonderful life it does later in the series. Here, actually, Wexford seems slightly out-of-character; he's less patient,possibly. Less tolerant perhaps? Certainly, he wasn't quite as warm as in many of the other books, but his skills as a detective are borne out wonderfully in an excellent mystery. <br />The Best Man to Die (again, one of Rendell's treasures that have been left out of print. I doubt you'll be able to get this anywhere except second-hand) is a great, impeccably written mystery. Rendell dissects her characters motivations marvellously. I would recommend this, of course, very highly indeed, but I don't think it's really the place to begin reading Wexford.	2004-03-17
743963:US	40684262	R38QZSUZRRW9AK	0871139189	95603806	Doctored Evidence: A Commissario Guido Brunetti Mystery	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Another delightful Brunetti experience	Last year, the publication of US ex-pat Donna Leon's Uniform Justice - about a murder in an Italian military academy - marked her much-lauded return to the American stage after 7 years. (They ceased to be published originally because she believed the way her publishers were marketing her books was \\"vulgar\\".) The rest of the world over, she has been a regular feature on the bestseller lists, and determined American fans have only been able to acquire foreign copies. Thankfully, that is now slowly changing. Why thankfully? Because her Commissario Guido Brunetti series, set in her adopted home-city of Venice, is one of the most enjoyable currently being produced. It is a huge big sparkling gem in the crown of crime fiction - it is a treasure trove of pure enjoyment.<br />Doctored Evidence is the 13th in the award-winning series, and just as good as all the rest. An unpleasant old-woman is found murdered in her apartment by her doctor. She was not liked. Treating her maids no better than slaves, and keeping her television on loud almost every night are just two of the behaviours which alienate her from her neighbours. Suspicion immediately falls on her Romanian maid, who is missing and heading back to her country. As the police catch up with her at a train station on the border, she flees in desperation, and is killed as she runs across the tracks into the path of a train. <br />Finding a large amount of money on her person, they believe they've found their woman. That is, until one of the victim's neighbours returns from a business trip in London, with strong evidence to suggest that she was not the killer. The investigating officer dismisses her, passing her off to Brunetti, who starts to investigate the case unofficially, and uncovers a mystery far more complex than the one they all suspected. <br />The fact that Leon writes these novels purely for pleasure (she has said that she would far rather attend the opera if it came to a choice) and not for fame or money (uncomfortable with any kind of \\"celebrity\\", she refuses to allow them to be published in Italy) really shines through this marvellous series. It is infused with something marvellous. This is crime fiction for the sake of it. It is pure and it is wonderful.<br />That's not to say it isn't serious, either, because it is. Donna Leon does for Venice what Ruth Rendell does for Britain and Michael Connelly for L.A. Like many great crime writers, Leon uses her fiction as a way of highlighting things about the world  - in this case specifically Venice - which concern her. Indeed, often they expose a level of corruption which Signor Berlusconi would not be at all pleased about! Doctored Evidence focuses perhaps less on general civic corruption - although Leon can't resist throwing hints of it into the mix - and more on a kind of personal corruption, while still managing to write as piercingly and fascinatingly about the society of Venice as ever. She is in the fortunate position of an outsider able to look at a society from the inside, and she utilises that advantage brilliantly for her portrait of the city. These novels are practically drenched in culture, and their protagonist is wonderfully refreshing: he is not hard or gritty, nor particularly flawed or jaded; he is just a normal Italian, a very moral man who wrestles every day with justice and its ambiguities. Plus, his wife is wonderful! The plots are refreshing, too, in the way of much European fiction: they are much less formulaic than some American or British fiction. Leon's mysteries are predictable only in their excellence. Doctored Evidence is a wonderful novel, a pure, sublime joy that no reader should allow to pass by.	2004-03-16
751919:US	40684262	R2FPUPMTAFE8CO	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	1	18	25	N	N	eh?	Come on people! For the love of God, someone knock someone sense into you. A plethora of four and five stars reviews for this fatuous, vapid trash? You gotta be kidding. <br />Now, don't go thinking you can label me a book snob; I'm as partial to a great John Grisham or Stephen King novel as the next person, or even an early Patterson thriller, but this is just nonsense. Why would anyone fork out their hard-eanred dollars to read this garbage? I don't like to call a book garbage, but this is what I am reduced to. 3rd Degree is astoundingly bad: everything about it is implausible, embarassingly bad. The characters are empty, and there may as well really not BE any. The book moves so fast and events unfold so quickly it's like watching a video on fast-forward, and the plot itself is a lod of nonsense. Terrorism? Come on. It's not developed, it's not dealt with the sensitivity it deserves. Everything here is gratuitous. Domestic abuse, too! Why would anyone waste their money on this?<br />3rd Degree is another greedy, badly written book, with absolutely nothing to reccomend it save for the fact that it is quick. And if you read a book just because you like it to be quick and easy (empty) then go and sit in the corner. Reading can be so much MORE than this.	2004-03-10
752677:US	40684262	RYU61FM4MHBEM	0375704957	892018401	Shake Hands Forever	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sharp, focused mystery	Shake Hands For Ever - a novel which takes its title from a work by Michael Drayton - is very much a Wexford novel. There's not a lot of Burden here at all, instead Rendell turns her full attention to the character of Wexford, and his frustration when he comes upon a case which he feels he knows the answer to, but cannot prove. Until, one year after it occurs, new information starts turning up...<br />Robert Hathall is bringing his overbearing, overcritical mother home to meet his second wife Angela, a woman whom Mrs Hathall clearly detests (mainly for the fact that she thinks she split up her son's first marriage). Angela was supposed to meet her husband and mother-in-law at the train station, but didn't turn up. Eventually, the two make their way home, and discover her dead body, strangled on the bed. Having cleaned the house immaculately for the impending visit, there is almost nothing to go on.<br />This is not really a whodunnit, as pretty early on Wexford decides he knows who did it. All he has to do is prove it, and the why, and the how. But it proves an impossible task, and when he is warned off the case by his superior, for &quot;harassing&quot; his chief suspect, Wexford undertakes some private investigations of his own...<br />Although I don't think Shake Hands for Ever is quite the one of the best Wexford novels - it is beautifully focused, yes, but as this is mainly a &quot;Wexford must prove his theory&quot; novel, there aren't a great range of characters, although those that are are as well-drawn and fascinating as ever - it is still very fine indeed. It boasts, of the Wexford books anyway, possibly Rendell's finest last-chapter shock of her career. It's an excellent crime/mystery novel, which even though we think we know what is going on, is far from predictable, and the story goes deeper than we at first think. The prose is sharp, and socially aware as ever. Ominous and dark, too, brilliantly balanced by some moments great humour. Rendell's almost vicious wit is often glossed over, not even noticed, by most reviewers, but it is another of those things which make her so special. Her latest book, The Rottweiler, was full of it, and it was marvellous!<br />To sum up, Shake Hands For Ever is, though not the very very best, a great Wexford novel from Ruth Rendell - one who all fans of hers must read.	2004-03-09
757693:US	40684262	R2KK15V9F0QZW2	0375704906	499345480	Some Lie and Some Die (An Inspector Wexford Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another superb early Wexford story	During the brilliantly depicted rock festival in the grounds of Sundays House - the atmosphere of this is brilliant, and is part of the reason why this book, like all her best, sparkles with an individuality that makes the experience of reading it so special - the bands play, the weather is fine, and a good time is had by all except one or two disgruntled locals. Oh, and the sometimes-grouchy Inspector Burden of course, but even he lightens up to the idea eventually. However, as the festival begins to wind itself down, two precocious lovers discover a battered body in a nearby quarry, and Inspector Wexford finds himself investigating murder rather than his earlier duty of making sure everything runs smoothly, and law-abidingly, at the festival. The body is identified as that of Dawn Stonor, a local girl who had moved to London, returning only on occasional trips to see her mother. As with all Rendell mysteries, the plot soon thickens considerably and little is as it seems... <br />Some Lie and Some Die ranks among Rendell's finest Wexford mysteries. It's one of my favourites, along with Wolf to the Slaughter, The Speaker of Mandarin, The Veiled One and Harm Done. It's a short little mystery, but Rendell packs such a lot in here, a lot of plot that it's an incredibly satisfying, fulfilling novel. Once again, it is a completely unique work (all of her best are; the ones which are slightly formulaic, or lack that special sparkle, like Put on by Cunning of A New Lease of Death, aren't quite so wonderful) and an excellent mystery. <br />It's absolutely fascinating to read; every word is palced perfectly, every shift in the story times impeccably. There is something so unique and special about reading Ruth Rendell, but it's something which is impossible to elaborate much on. It's just this little thrill; a little thrill you get at every perfect sentence combining into a perfect whole. It's also an incredibly powerful book, with an absolutely wonderful ending. I loved it.<br />As this book is certainly short, the characters aren't exactly incredibly well-rounded, as they are in some of her alter, longer books, but they are still sharp and pricked out with incredibly insight, almost shivering acuity. Wexford and Burden are great once more, but that goes without saying. This is another marvellous little book from Rendell - a fascinating, absorbing, special little read.	2004-03-05
758827:US	40684262	R1HU6J5GSWZLBD	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	1	3	7	N	N	what the heck...	... is going on here??? ...sorry, but I felt compelled to comment upon the ridiculous deluge of reviews which happen to mention The Ghost Country...this is NOT the forum to promote a book in such a way, and no amazon customer is, quite frankly, stupid enough not to realise when a person is logging reviews under multiple names. Shame on you, whoever you are! (Shame on you even more for boosting the average star-review for this dire book!)<br />It looks as if they've all been removed now...which makes this review hugely irrelevant	2004-03-05
763277:US	40684262	R12L35O8IDJEJ9	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	2	15	21	N	N	A descent too far	BANG! goes the bomb, and the windows blow out, flames reaching desperately out into the air. \\"Oh My God\\", says Lieutenant Lindsay Boxer, rushing without a thought into the burning house to heroically save any helpless San Francisco citizens inside. <br />\\"We hate capitalism,\\" muse the terrorists. \\"Who shall we target next? (Hey, how about that author whose publishing machine makes millions of dollars every year? Patterson something, isn't he called?\\")  A brief moment later, the members of the Weepy Ladies Club begin to cry on one another's shoulders as another body is found horribly murdered. \\"Oh my God\\", they wail in unison, \\"these are innocent people they're killing! Innocent! Hey, Jill what are those bruises on your arm?\\" they ask, concerned. She makes some excuse about falling in the shower. They sense the approach of an improbable, sensationalist sub-plot. Suddenly, a message is discovered! The evil terrorists are declaring war on greed and corruption, and calling themselves the \\"August Spies\\". \\"Oh my God,\\" exclaims Lindsay Boxer, \\"this is terrible!\\"<br />\\"By the way,\\" interjects Patterson (or is it Andrew Gross?), shouting all the way from the cover of the book, \\"One of my best-loved heroines...\\"<br />\\"Eh?\\" interrupts Lindsay incredulously, \\"Best-loved? Us?\\" <br />\\"Yup, apparently. As I was saying...in 3rd Degree one of my best-loved heroines is going to die. Which one will it be?\\" He leaves in a blood-red puff of smoke, failing laughably to create any atmosphere of suspense. <br />Sorry about all that...I think I'm drowning in the lack of respect I have for this book; although how anyone could drown in the absence of anything is neither here nor there. Normally, I can at least appreciate these books for what they are: cheap thrills packaged for an undemanding mass audience. Not any longer, I don't think. 3rd Degree is Patterson's shortest book so far, yet weighs in at a ridiculous 111 paragraphs (there is no way they could classify as \\"chapters\\") which make the experience of reading it feel distinctly like skimming even though I read every single word, and it positively reeks of the greed which bore it. Sensationalism is piled upon further sensationalism. Here we have not only domestic abuse (wholly improbable, badly dealt with) but terrorism as well! How's that for topical, eh? <br />James Patterson novels have finally become parodies of themselves. I'm not sure how anyone on earth could read this book in any kind of serious way. The characters are laughable; not even cardboard, they're just shadow puppets all of the same vague shape. As I've said before, no one can reduce a character to mere proper-nouns and pronouns with more ease than James Patterson. Once again, his use of the exclamation mark - the literary equivalent of gasping at your own bombshell, or laughing at your own joke - had me in titters, creating entirely the wrong effect. If a scene is dramatic, we will know it, Mr Patterson. Provided that the book is well-written enough, of course. Oh, irony of ironies. The use of the exclamation mark only emphasises our awareness of the fact that this is pseudo-dramatic trash desperate for attention, for some kind of effect.  While the first two books in this series were good enough by his standards, this is possibly a step too far. And the sheer hypocrisy of this book, which seems to have some sense of an anti-capitalism message, just made me angry when the existence and purpose of this book is considered in its context. Although it has its moments and is thrilling enough at times, I wouldn't recommend this to anyone (well, if truth be told, I wouldn't really recommend any Patterson to anyone.) At least we have something to be thankful for, though: it's not as bad as The Lake House.	2004-03-02
766305:US	40684262	R2VRVD72Z0GV35	0440235448	390826918	A Sight for Sore Eyes	Books	5	65	68	N	N	One of Rendell's masterpieces	A Sight for Sore Eyes is a crime novel that is also literature; it's a grim fairytale about corrupted beauty, a twisted yet beautiful love-story about two damaged people gradually moving together, with catastrophic consequences. I had read several of Rendell's books before I came to this several years ago, but this one was the first one I fell I love with. Normally, whenever anyone says \\"I couldn't put it down\\", that's just a stock sentence to convey some sense of the quality of the book, they don't actually MEAN that they physically couldn't put the book down. True cases are very very rare indeed, and they are nothing to do with physicality. Sometimes, though, books like this do come along, which cause you to suddenly realise it's five in the morning and you should have slept long ago. In these cases, yourself and the book have actually melded, briefly, into a whole. The book is an extension of the self, so remarkable as to almost seem forged in the mind, to seem, perhaps, to be only created as you are reading it. This is such a book. A book that is so gripping, whose universe is so totally convincing that you, in a sense, become it, to the ignorance of all other external stimuli.<br />It is the story of the lives of a group of people, most notably Francine Hill - who was in the house while her mother was shot by a man at the door, and who hid in a cupboard, only coming out to discover the bloodied body - and Teddy Grex - a young man who comes from a squalid, loveless family, who reveres beautiful objects and fine craftsmanship and tends to ignore the fact that other people exist around him. While, after his parent's deaths, Teddy lives in a world of almost unlimited freedom, Francine is virtually imprisoned by her obsessive, over-protective stepmother Julia. From childhood, they grow into young adulthood, and the two damaged souls somehow find each other, with traditionally Rendellian consequences.<br />This book is remarkable. It's one of those books that words to describe simply don't exist for. If you are a Rendell fan already, I don't know why you haven't already bought this. If you are new, this is probably a great place to start. It is beautifully twisted, complex and resonant piece of work, and she displays all her talents: Her sharp, ironic, Austen-esque wit, her ability to construct plots which mesh in with one another in a way that leaves your jaw dropped in admiration, her ability to draw a cast of wholly human characters, some of whom are dangerously damaged, and her ability to make the skewed logic of those damaged characters seem so perfectly plausible. Her prose style is so tempered, so plain yet beautiful, that she can convince the reader of anything she wants. We would believe, implicitly, anything she tells us.<br />The story moves at such a suspenseful pace, the characters collide like comets. There are wonderful touches, here; for example, in one of the final scenes the beautiful diamond ring which Teddy's mother found in a pub lavatory in the 70's, and served as their engagement ring, ends up once again lost and forgotten on the basin in a pub lavatory 30 years later. It is simple, but it's beguiling, wondrous touches like this, of bringing the story of the characters full circle, that make the book sparkle so. There's something bizarre and twisted about it all (especially the remarkably creepy ending!) , yes, but there is also something magical and beautiful in the ruins of Rendell's character's psyches.<br />I've said very little of all that could be about this book, but there is simply not enough space to expound upon the brilliance of this book. Too, there aren't really enough adjectives - excellent, brilliant, etc - to do it justice. It's a book that should be read by all.<br />A Sight for Sore Eyes is one of Rendell's masterpieces. It is a piece of fiction so beautifully and impeccably crafted that it almost beggars belief to consider Rendell's craftsmanship of it. Certainly, I feel sure that any Rendell fan will treasure its beauty and beguiling intricacy, as, probably, would Teddy.ny Rendell fan will treasure its beauty and beguiling intricacy, as, probably, would Teddy.	2004-02-28
773460:US	40684262	R3M1XJVNJLO8XP	0754094634	703207753	The Rottweiler	Books	5	32	36	N	N	The best crime writer anywhere in the world today - still!	Ruth Rendell here again visits London, the place she is so able to render darkly atmospheric and menacing. There is a serial killer on the loose, and he has been dubbed \\"The Rottweiler\\" by the media, due to a bite mark found on the first victims neck, even though that bite mark was later traced back to her boyfriend. His only signature is that he takes one of each victims' personal items - perhaps a watch, or necklace - after having garrotted them. <br />The latest victim is found near Inez Ferry's antique shop, and because of this the lives of a small group of disparate people will become drawn into this case and it's increasingly introverted investigation. For the police are becoming more and more convinced that someone connected to the shop - anyone from the exotic assistant Zeinab, who is stringing along a variety of rich men, to one of the tenants in the flats above - could very well be a homicidal maniac... <br />This is everything that I expect a Ruth Rendell novel to be. It is, of course, impeccably written and psychologically excellent, so I need say no more about that. Indeed, The Rottweiler is another of Rendell's books that is entirely unique, in that for almost the first time ever she displays a delicious dark humour, veins of which run through the plot like black treacle. At times, this seems like a social satire, as she directs her gaze onto everything from the media to the often bizarre relationships between men and women. Her characters are also particularly noteworthy, especially the compelling Inez and Will, who is possibly the most moving character she has ever depicted, who takes a perverse, almost unregistered, pleasure from pushing away all prospective suitors for his beloved Aunt Rebecca, who desperately doesn't want to spend the rest of her life caring for her \\"simple\\" nephew, though is racked with guilt because of that.<br />You would easily be forgiven for thinking that this is a serial killer novel, but this is really no more a serial killer novel than the Bible is a book solely about God. It is so much more than that. It's a book about the people involved, how they can be draw into darkness and uncertainty through the effects of the gravity of crime. It's a book about how peoples live always changed when confronted with the horrific. At times, the serial killings themselves seem very on the periphery (I was going to say \\"incidental\\" that that would be entirely the wrong word) and it is eerie to read about them in such a detached way. It's also interesting how we, essentially, only know as much about the murders as the characters themselves do through their exposure to the media. <br />To be honest, it's almost impossible to review a Ruth Rendell book and truly convince of her genius and say what you really want to without illustrating it by disclosing important aspects of the plot or simply re-telling little aspects of the story, which makes the task I have very hard. But, rest assured, this book of a contemporary and chilling London and a small group of people within it is brilliant. It's a novel that questions, among many things, the nature of morality, how we perceive others and ourselves, it examines ideas of the human need for companionship, and the different forms of love between men and women, and it tackles, as many of her books do on some level, the problem of \\"How eccentric or odd do you have to be before you become a danger to others, or even yourself?\\" And yet, it is really about none of those things. Those are just tiny stitches in her tapestry, small but illuminating strokes on her canvas. It's about people, and the spider-web of life that connects everything to everything else. And I consider it to be brilliance in its purest form. The only way to understand this is to read one of her works, because there is no one else today writing books quite like this. She's our modern Scheherazade. I just want her to keep telling stories all night long.	2004-02-23
775602:US	40684262	R2HPAFNMD0SVHY	0345359941	463369953	Veiled One (Inspector Wexford)	Books	5	45	45	N	N	14th fine Wexford novel	The Veiled One is Rendell's 14th Inspector Wexford mystery, and as excellent as all the rest. The continued quality of this series is remarkable. There have only been one or two slightly lacklustre books in it, and those were very early on in her career.<br />One November evening, Wexford drives him from Barringdean Shopping Centre, noticing nothing amiss. He is preoccupied with family matters. precisely, his daughter Sheila who, in protest, has damaged Ministry of Defence Property, the wire fence surrounding a nuclear weapons facility. An actress, her face is automatically splashed across the papers.<br />Later, at home, Burden phones through with the news: a garotted body has been founding in the Shopping Centre Car Park, hidden between two cars. She is identified as Gwen Robson, a home-help of late middle-age, who lives in Kingsmarkham with her arthritic husband. However, before Wexford himself cna do much investigating, he too faces death, in the form of a politically motiovated car-bomb inteded for his daughter Sheila. So, Mike Burden forges ahead on his own, quickly narrowing in on a suspect, the son of the woman who found the body. But are his intuitions right?<br />This is probably Rendell's most psychologically rich mystery. Some of the characters are quite odd, and she lays them psychologically bare, creating fascinating and rather unsettling psychological portraits. Indeed, the depth with which she examines her characters in this book is probably unequalled in any other Wexford novel.<br />Wexford is on excellent form again, and it's often easy to forget quite what a great lead character he is. An aging policeman, increasingly puzzled by the foibles of society - which Rendell highlights with a percision that emphaises the sharp social conscience of this novel - he should, perhaps, be a little dull. But no! For he's actually a interesting, funny, real human being. A relatively gentle policeman who gradually unravels the solutions to the puzzles which confront him. He has a home life which is realistic and entertaining, and he is quite simply very good company.<br />The Veiled One is not just a rich psychological mystery, but also an excellent puzzle. The investigation shifts and twists, and the solution is singularly surprising. It's an uneasy, disturbing, unusually gripping police-procedural that has distinct echoes of some of Rendell's psychological thrillers, although never strays quite into that territory. It's an excellent book in the series, but I would say that it's not the best Wexford novel for new readers to start with. To appreciate it fully, it helps if you already know the characters well. My advice is to read the very first Wexford mystery, From Doon With Death, and then simply look forward to this one.onfront him. He has a home life which is realistic and entertaining, and he is quite simply very good company. <br />The Veiled One is not just a rich psychological mystery, but also an excellent puzzle. The investigation shifts and twists, and the solution is singularly surprising. It's an uneasy, disturbing, unusually gripping police-procedural that has distinct echoes of some of Rendell's psychological thrillers, although never strays quite into that territory. It's an excellent book in the series, but I would say that it's not the best Wexford novel for new readers to start with. To appreciate it fully, it helps if you already know the characters well. My advice is to read the very first Wexford mystery, From Doon With Death, and then simply look forward to this one.	2004-02-22
775900:US	40684262	R11NG2XTXQ1373	1565848608	540372155	The Return of the Dancing Master	Books	5	92	94	N	N	Brilliant international crime novel - mordant yet seductive	I don't know what it is that has suddenly caused this rise in recognition of foreign writers, but it can only be a good thing. Jose Carlos Somoza, Boris Akunin, Karin Fossum, Carlo Lucarelli, and the Dark Wintry King of them all, Henning Mankell, who is increasingly a phenomena. His books fly off the shelves on mainland Europe, he's mobbed in the streets in his native Sweden, in Germany he apparently outsells J.K. Rowling (it's about time someone did), and half-Swedish Ruth Rendell has taken the trouble to read all the novels in their original language, admiring the fascinating procedural detail, which is just one of Mankell's strengths. He never shies from portraying the dull of aspects of routine police-work, but somehow manages to put such a spin on them as to make them interesting. And although The Return of the Dancing Master is a departure from his ever-better Kurt Wallander series - although it may as well not be, for how similar and ominously gloomy the two different protagonists are, it is just as excellent, and probably even better.<br />Retired policeman Herbert Molin lives a hermetic existence in a lonely house in the middle of a North-Sweden forest. Whatever he's hiding from, he's eluded it for 11 years, occupying himself with his fears, his jigsaw puzzles, and his dancing. Then, one day he is found beaten and lashed, lying dead in the snow on the edge of the wood. In his house, bloody footprints pattern the floor, marking out the steps of his favourite dance, the tango.<br />When Stefan Lindman, on sick-leave and obsessed with death having recently been diagnosed with cancer, reads of his old colleagues murder, he ventures north to the forests of Molin's retreat in order to try and find out more about who killed him, and in doing so places himself into a bleak investigation that stretches itself back to the evil acts of the second world war, and forces him to confront uncomfortable truths about his modern-day Sweden. <br />I can well see how Mankell'sbooks, this one in particular, may not be suited to all. The Return of the Dancing Master - this title has quickly jumped to the top of my \\"Favourite Book Titles\\" list - is a dark, bleak and intense book with a heavy, dark atmosphere. There is little sunlight to be glimpsed anywhere, literally or metaphorically. So this is not for people who like their fiction light and happy, but more melancholy and affecting.<br />Sweden is evoked brilliantly, which is important as setting is one of the three necessary factors required in order to make a crime book effective, the other two being plot and character, where Mankell succeeds as well. The vast lonely forests of Northern Sweden contribute effectively to the bleakness (as you can tell, \\"bleak\\" is very much a watch-word here) of the book, and it is clear that Mankell has a very good handle on his country, and although is fond of it, shows us the things which worry him about modern Sweden, which he has said he thinks is a \\"pretty average\\" society. Here we are treated to bigotry, racism and neo-Nazism in pretty heavy doses, which makes for some disturbing scenes, and along with the atmosphere and the morbidity-obsessed lead character, it all correlates into a pretty dark book. Dark but brilliant, though. Mankell is an incredibly powerful writer, and that gift is on display here right from the beginning. The prologue gives us a vision of the executions of Nazi war criminals in 1945, and then in the first chapter we read terrified yet gripped by the throat as a scared, lonely old man's isolated home is assaulted in the dark, the windows shot out and he himself  slaughtered.<br />The Return of the Dancing Master is bleak, yes, but it is fascinating, chilling, with the traditional flawed-hero (just what IS it about these kinds of people???) and it's refreshingly unformulaic. The plot is not once predictable, and constantly shifts beneath the reader to create a kind of gutsy suspense and a great pace. It's not quite perfect (there are a couple of kinks in the translation, I think, but that's forgivable) but apart from that it nearly is! A dark, excellent story by an incredibly talented writer, and I am absolutely sure that this will end up as one of my favourite reads of the year. If you want to try Mankell, start here. Whatever the price, the experience of this is well-worth it.	2004-02-21
796256:US	40684262	R2950ZGS8FIR66	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Maybe Grisham's finest work	In my experience, Grisham either writes excellent books (The Chamber, The Runaway Jury) or very mediocre ones (The Client, which is possibly the most pointless thing I have read in years.) The blurb of The Last Juror - which tells of a small Southern town, a rape and murder trial, a defendant send down despite threatening revenge if the jurors convict him, and a \\"retribution\\" 9 years later upon his release - makes it sound a very promising thriller, and I was expecting to read what might be Grisham's best book. However, the blurb is slightly misleading in its focus and its suggestion of time. Indeed, the trial doesn't happen until about halfway through, and the release not until about the final 50 pages. As I realised this, I changed my expectation to disappointment. Big but: I was very wrong. Because, in spite of that, this is STILL probably Grisham's finest novel. <br />While it is  partly about the trial and conviction of local boy Danny Padgitt, The Last Juror is actually about the town as a whole and how it changes over time, through desegregation and other social shifts. It's about it's eclectic residents and how they cope with the changes and crimes in the community, as seen through the eyes of the dubiously-named Willie Traynor, one of Grisham's most engaging narrators in years, a 23 year-old journalist who has recently acquired ownership of the Ford Count Times, and gradually turns its fortunes around as he writes with endearing passion about the town, and anger at the corruption in its justice system. The journey Grisham takes us on, through the panorama of 9 years in the history of this town in the seventies, is a wonderful, touching, and also thrilling, and The Last Juror is a wonderful, touching and thrilling book. <br />There is an inexplicable tendency, even among fans of the crime genre, to look down on Grisham and other huge populists, and it is a tendency which is denying lots of people some great reading experiences. His books aren't particularlychallenging, no, but he is a brilliant and instinctive storyteller. His prose is so easy and languid, so polished, that it flows past the eyes and invites one simply to be carried along with the ease of the experience. It is remarkable prose, unlike anyone else's. Thus, his books don't require much effort to read, but the rewards of a captivating, entertaining story are copious and potent for the fact that his books asks so little - apart from a little emotional investment in his characters - and give, comparatively, so much.<BR> <BR>Grisham's books tend to be very plot driven, but this one also puts a bit more focus on characters; a quirky and warming bunch. The town colourful inhabitants are drawn, on the surface, wonderfully, even if there is no real depth to some of them. They are an unthreatening, entirely innocuous group, a personification, almost, of Grisham's approach to his books. It's sometimes remarkable to think that in the gratuitous world of crime writing, Grisham's books are never ever brutal, and in all his back-catalogue he's only ever \\"murdered\\" about 7 people. <br />In the end, this is a great legal thriller with some nice twists, but more than that it is a compelling meditation on the life of a small American town in the 70's. In the very moving final chapter, Grisham's message seems to be that the only person who sits in on our final judgement, our own last juror, is ourselves. Or God, depending upon what you believe, I suppose.	2004-02-06
803598:US	40684262	R2YFWFP0K7H5PS	0374106770	252394770	The Athenian Murders	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Brilliant! Stunningly intelligent	\\"The Cave of Ideas\\", this book's title in the original Spanish, is actually a far better one; certainly more apt. \\"The Athenian Murders\\" doesn't quite bring across the right tone that of a viciously intelligent piece of a philosophy. It more creates the impression of a simple historical whodunit, which is rather misleading. For it is FAR more than that, and anyone who picks up this book just wanting an enjoyable historical novel may find themselves confounded. Because this book is, as that original title suggests, a novel of ideas. It is not just a piece of philosophy, this book IS philosophy.<br /> It's set-up is original and brilliant, leading to the fact that we actually have here TWO first-person narrators. One, Diagoras, is a contemporary of Plato, a pedagogue at his academy in Athens. He is writing an account concerning the brutal murder of one of the sons of a leading Athenian dignitary. His body was found on a wooden hillside, and the condition of the corpse initially leads the discovers to think he has been savaged by wolves. Diagoras calls in the \\"Decipherer of Enigmas\\", Heracles Pontor (note the initials!) to help investigate the murder. Our second narrator is the modern-day translator of this ancient Greek manuscript, who speaks to us only through his footnotes as he translates the text. Gradually, as he works, another story appears to be emerging in the writing, buried in layers of hidden meaning. It seems that there is a message beneath the main story, and the unnamed translator grows obsessed by it. The more he translates, the deeper the roots seem to extend, until eventually the astonishing, confounding truth is revealed...<br />This is probably the most important literary thriller since Donna Tartt's The Secret History, or Umberto Eco's The Name of the Rose. It won the UK's CWA Gold Dagger for Best Crime Novel of the year, and I don't think there has ever been a more deserving winner. This is the writer's sixth novel, but his English language debut,and it marks out a remarkable, astounding talent. It is incredibly hard to convey the sheer quality of this text (somehow that word seems more appropriate than \\"novel\\") is without revealing its brilliance, the stunning, jaw-dropping final revelation which shafts this novel into the stratosphere of brilliant works of literature and ideas. As I say, though this starts as a philosophical novel, with meaning within meaning, with its end it actually BECOMES a genuine piece of actual philosophy itself. It's ending explodes it into the category, \\"masterpiece\\". It's definitely a book for the thinking-reader, though, some of the ideas explored take time to get your head around, and I'm sure that the end can provoke hours of thought, cogs turning round and round in the brain. It did for me, certainly. However, there is more to this brilliant mystery than just its end; don't let my effusive praise deceive you!<br />The historical sections are fascinating, wonderfully detailed; crafted with the love of a scholar. They're not overbearing, though, and they only add to the story and the characters. It's also worth assuring you that Somoza balances the two parallel stories brilliantly. Never is there more importance placed on the truth of the ancient mystery than there is on the truth of the modern one, so effortless does he temper them, balance them. Nor does he allow the interjections of the \\"translator\\" to interrupt the flow of the mystery too much. It happens a little, but that is to be expected, I suppose.  <br />This is a brilliant novel of stories within stories, circles within circles. It isn't for you if you like your crime fiction straightforward and cosy (as well as being complex, there are one or two slightly brutal themes), but if you like to be forced to think, then this is the best novel you could have the wisdom to select!	2004-01-31
804329:US	40684262	R2NLV3192Y8FEI	0316095648	223134214	A Question of Blood: An Inspector Rebus Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding crime fiction	Rankin's latest begins straight off, plumping us right in the middle of the plot, and has a pace that continues in that vein, right until the shocking end. It starts with Rebus, in hospital, hands burned and bandaged following a severe scalding from hot bathwater. Or so he says. He is about to be called into a case that will question his notions of family, his past, his future, and his present. There has been a horrific shooting incident at a private school just north of Edinburgh: three people are dead, one injured. After his rampage, the killer - who was, like Rebus, ex-army - turned the gun on himself. As everyone puts it, &quot;there's no mystery, except the why&quot;. <br />Given his army background, Rebus is asked to advise, on the quiet, to try and give some insight into what made this man go so catastrophically off the rails. Rebus becomes fascinated with the dead man and his motives, and when the military police start sniffing around it makes him suspect that this thing might go a lot deeper than at first it seems. <br />But, before very long, Rebus too finds himself under investigation. A petty criminal who had been stalking and harassing his colleague and friend Siobhan (pronounced &quot;Shivawn&quot;. As one character puts it, &quot;So that's how it's spelt.&quot;) Clarke has been found burnt to death in his home. And not everyone is prepared to believe Rebus's excuses for his injuries... <br />For me, at least, this is surely going to be a crime novel of the year. Rankin (so good he has already been awarded an OBE) has produced another outstanding novel of &quot;Scots noir&quot;, which is sure to only cement his immense reputation among his fans as well as garnering him a good few more. <br />His prose, which is as smooth and hard as marble, and plots work like an acid, gradually corroding the genial touristy facade of the city and showing us the dark oily mechanics beneath. His writing is crisp and powerful, building atmosphere and character with a deceptive ease. His dialogue is sharp and realistic, often very clever, while his plotting is thick and complex. Everything hangs together beautifully. <br />As a Rebus novel, this one is, if not quite the strongest, definitely unique. There's no real whodunnit type mystery here, but Rankin makes the whydunnit aspects just as fascinating. Also fascinating is Rebus himself, who increasingly understands the criminals more than he understands those around him, and who is ever so slightly disturbed by the parallels he sees between himself and the killer. The most interesting protagonist in the genre, he continues to grow and evolve as he ages, becoming softer yet harder at the same time, if at all possible, while still retaining the dark &quot;lonerness&quot; that has endeared him to so very many. However, this time around the fascination of Rebus himself is almost equal to the fascination of his increasingly complex and interesting relationship with his colleague DS Clarke (who is pretty darn interesting just by her self, busily avoiding social contact and living in a style eerily similar to that of her boss) which here sometimes threatens to become the main psychological draw of the story, rather than Rebus. This has been in the coming for several books now. At times he seems fatherly towards her, at times merely friendly (which is in itself unusual) and at times we realise just how much he has come to care, even though he doesn't always seem to know it himself. A particularly interesting happening here is how Clarke is forced to accompany him everywhere and act as his &quot;hands&quot;. (&quot;How will you go to the toilet?&quot; &quot;A man's got to do what a man's got to do.&quot;) <br />A Question of Blood, appropriately full of themes of blood, literal and metaphorical, familial and diseased, is an outstanding novel, dark, edgy and fascinating. This is Rankin at his strongest, and that is something indeed.	2004-01-31
815997:US	40684262	R3NA6YACAIS09T	0743477154	602429584	Postmortem (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	brilliant debut	The women die on Saturday mornings. They die horrifically and seemingly randomly. They are brutalised and strangled in their bedrooms by an intruder. This is all that is known. This is how they die.<br />When newly installed Dr Kay Scarpetta, Chief Medical Examiner of Richmond, Virginia, gets a call at just after half past two in on Saturday morning, she knows even before she answers the phone that a fourth woman has died. Though deeply distressed at the actions of this latest devious, unfathomable serial killer, all Scarpetta herself can do for the victims is to let them speak through her to help catch he who is responsible. Diligently she performs her morbid task, investigating the bodies of the fatally wronged, even though not all are pleased that she occupies this job.<br />There's little doubt that this is one of the most successful debut novels of all time, winning a plethora of awards upon its release and still drawing people into the series even today, and I am sure it will continue to do so. It deserves too, as well. Post-mortem is a cunning, powerful, emotional and clever debut from a woman who is now the most successful (not to mention wealthy!) female crime writer in the world. With this book Cornwell pretty much created an entire new genre, and blew out the gates for a new generation of writers to follow her through. None of them are quite as good, though. None have ever matched the quality or the fascination of the so-well-described forensic detail, none have ever managed to create a more interesting and complete character than Scarpetta, who still develops to this day, thanks to Cornwell's ability to keep her series growing in different directions. They haven't always been universally popular directions, changes, but I feel they must be commended just for the fact that Cornwell has refused to write carbon-copies of this first book all through her career. God knows, she could have done, but I'm sure that lots of readers would by now be sick of them.<br/>The plotting here is slick and easy, the personal contexts and conflicts nudge the quality even higher, and the writing has autumnal beauty in it. She can also find the stark bleak poetry of a dead body.<br />There's no doubt that Cornwell has found her unique place in the crime fiction Hall of Fame, as has Scarpetta, the most fascinating and complex female protagonist in the entire genre. Currently, it is very much in vogue to criticise Cornwell, and from what I can see this is almost solely because the most recent novels - Scarpetta or otherwise - are just different. But, whatever you think of them, Post-mortem is a brilliant forensic thriller, and it always will be.	2004-01-22
816255:US	40684262	R18W8IBOGKH7UZ	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	3	6	N	N	absolutely splendid!	\\"The snow in the mountains was melting and Bunny had been dead for several weeks before we came to understand the gravity of our situation.\\"<br />Thus it began. One of the most brilliant literary novels of the entire decade. There started The Secret History, and there started the career of the mysterious, enigmatic Donna Tartt. Thanks Heaven for her. After first having read this, if I could have kissed the ground she walked on I just might have done so. <br />The book concerns an elite group of classics students at a New England university, and is told from the point of view of Richard Pappen, a new addition to their number who gradually assimilates into the tightly-knit, insular band. Over time, Richard comes to learn their secrets, eventually coming to the point where he, too, must now share responsibility in a new, monstrous act of murder. <br />So much has been written about this novel, but rarely has anything quite adequately illustrated the joy and breathless wonder which reading this novel engenders. And much of that has to do with what a sublime writer Tartt is. Where most modern literature now shines its light of praise on dearth, sparsity and water-clear prose, Tartt invites us into something different, treating us with rich, sumptuous sentences, so satisfying and beautiful that they inspire no small sense of elation at witnessing how the English language can be used as such a medium for intricacy and erudition. Not once is the prose bloated, though. It's like partaking of an especially fine meal, cooked by the French, with its delicate tints of herbs and spices, but served with the hospitality of the Greeks. The detail in the writing sparkles and glints like sapphires in an ocean, pieces of quartz embedded in a road which winds up to lush, green mountains bathed in dusky winter sunlight. The cumulative effect of the prose is powerful and mesmeric, like staring at the beautiful tempered pattern on the back of a cobra. <br />The plot is entirely gripping, its pace almost perfect, its characters mysterious and charismatic. The experience of it is rather like reading something of Dickensian detail, with the tone and register of something by Bret Easton Ellis, yet which has its roots and themes in Greek literature. There is something distinctly Homeric about it all, and there are more than enough classical references smattered throughout - never gratuitously though, may I make clear! - to have lovers of the period convulsed in delight. <br />The book itself is split into two parts; the first is a brilliant build-up to a murder, suspenseful and slightly dangerous, while the second is a wonderful study in the effects and power of guilt. The isolation of it, though you may share it with others, and the deep echoing pain of it, its potentially ruinous nature. And all the while it manages as well to be a serious - if perhaps skewed in its perhaps limited focus - examination of the morality of contemporary society. <br />The Secret History is a brilliant marriage of the cerebral, the thoughtful, and the refined, gripping thriller. It is that rare thing, a novel of literature that more than holds its own, commercially and through time, against pop-fiction, and certainly surpasses much of it in quality. The secret of The Secret History is definitely not one to keep to yourself! An absolutely perfect performance.	2004-01-22
816334:US	40684262	R2XUCTEZ05DK5U	006019877X	576504477	Playing with Fire: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	excellent book and addition to the series	Playing with Fire is that rare beast; a Peter Robinson novel that hasn't had its titled bashed about for North American markets which is rather refreshing. And, of course, considering that title, it is full of fire, destruction, conflagration (physical and emotional) as well a new burning power in the writing itself too, which makes the book possibly Robinson's strongest, most cunning plotted mystery yet, if perhaps not the most \\"meaningful\\" or innovative.<br />It begins, of course, with flame. In the wee hours of a cold January morning (the chill of the climate and atmosphere is a brilliantly effective contrast to the searing fires of the plot) two narrow-boats are found burning on a lonely stretch of a Yorkshire canal. When the fire-fighters have done their work, the investigators move in, and two dead bodies are found in the remains, blackened and burnt. And, of course, in the best traditions of the murder-mystery, traces of accelerant are found.<br />However, which was the intended victim? Tina, the drugged out young girl living with her boyfriend on one boat, or Tom, the lonely, seemingly reclusive artist who lived on the other? As Robinson's well-seasoned protagonist Chief Inspector Banks sets the investigations in motion, the threads tangle and the case proves to be every bit as complex as it promised at the start. And this particular twisted firestarter is not done yet...<br />Peter Robinson is remarkable; with every single book for about 6 years, he has been continuing to expand his series, smashing down boundaries, reaching new heights with every single book. While once his reflective Inspector Banks novels were simply nice little procedurals to while away an evening, lately they have become something far more remarkable, and he has moved into the front rank of male crime writers, alongside Ian Rankin and Michael Connelly in writing moving, artful crime novels that shed light on all aspects of human experience.  There are so many things to recommend him, not least his evocation of landscape and ability to probe the very human depths of every single characters instinctive motivations. He plots as if he were born to the genre, and his protagonist Banks is a true marvel. Less of a tough-as-nails guy than Bosch or Rebus, Banks is thoughtful, moral, reflective and, dare I say it, not startlingly interesting on the surface (but, of course, therein lies his shining humanity) and in Playing with Fire there are enough personal trials for him to deal with to satisfy any connoisseur of fascinating protagonists. The other human aspects of this book are incredibly well-done; moving and expansive, Robinson reaches out to all his characters, taking them gently by the hand and leading them to the reader, in sometimes shocking ways.<br />The cracking, multi-faced plot is in itself engaging and clever, with surprises and shifts in tone and pitch that elevate it far above the average. If this fourteenth entry in the series doesn't line itself up for several international awards, I'll eat my proof copy.	2004-01-22
817268:US	40684262	R1W9IDJ3T4M7VX	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	compelling literary pageturner - interesting themes	It is difficult to give a synopsis of this book, as after all so much of its cumulative power and suspense lie in the gradual revelation of its plot movement. It is really enough just to say that this is a novel about one man and his stalker. It begins with possibly the most sublime and perfectly first chapter, which is a demonstration of McEwan's acute ability to create a teasing, hypnotic and terribly suspense from mere hints. From the events of that first chapter, one man's life is set on a new and potentially dangerous path. <br />In a way, McEwan's depiction of how people's lives can be adversely affected by brushing up against someone who, in accepted terms, is not quite \\"normal\\", is distinctly Rendellian. Though, while McEwan's portrayal of this particular malign influence is certainly powerful, here it is not quite as convincing or effective, even though it works well enough for the purposes of the plot. Another large slice of this novel' magic comes from McEwan's ability, through his tempered, reasonable prose, to make the most surreal of things seem entirely possible, even probable. Gradually, this book becomes a fascinating and satisfyingly oblique examination of obsession and all forms of love: familial, sexual, parental, as well as study in what love itself means, though the various character's experiences. The brilliant double-take title places a sharp gloss onto these themes, setting mental cogs in motion to top the excellent ensemble off perfectly.<br />Another of McEwan's trademarks is on brilliant display here, too: the depiction of the gradual disintegration of human relationships. His is a true master in this area, understanding with deadly realism how fragile relationships are, how even the smallest shifts can irreparably damage them if those changes are reinforced, if the requisite fixing is not done in time. This has long been a theme of McEwan's work, right from his first novel, \\"The Cement Garden\\", through to his Booker Prize-winning \\"Amsterdam\\", and here he tackles them possibly with more clarity and precision than ever before. <br />His prose is also as tempered and spare as ever, perfectly succinct and tight, and is a virtuoso lesson in detachment. Eerily and atmospherically so, as this novel is written in the first person, giving an odd but effective personal juxtaposition between the reader and characters.<br />Enduring Love is a gripping, literate pageturner. It's not a book for people who like Pattersonesque comic-book style novels, but for those who like to savour the words, the semantics, the sentences - everything that lies hidden behind the scenes, as well as the story. Full of provoking pensive passages, it's one of the most compelling and intelligent novels yet from one of the world's literary heavyweights.	2004-01-21
822128:US	40684262	R33JTHAZ6ZHKPY	0345447867	38131708	The Apprentice- Tess Gerritsen	Books	3	4	5	N	N	nothing new to see here - pass it by	there is nothing here that hasn't been done before. Everything in The Apprentice has been done before, somewhere else (often better) and as a result this is really just like reading good bits from other serial killer thrillers that have just been cut out and stuck in here in a different order. <br />All the best crime novels are brilliant because they serve up a well-brewed mix of character, plot, and setting. This doesn't really fulfill any of those criteia, let alone all three. The plot is nothing new, Gerritsen has nothing original to say. This is highlighted not just by the fact that everything here can be found in a far better serial killer novel (I advise you to look toward &quot;Mortal Fear&quot; by Greg Iles, anything by Thomas Harris, or Val McDermid's &quot;The Mermaids Singing&quot; or Michael Connelly's &quot;The Concrete Blonde&quot; for really sublime serial killer books) but by the fact that &quot;The Apprentice&quot; is practically just a re-write of &quot;The Surgeon&quot;!. There is nothing particularly great about the setting, either. there is nothing here to really distinguish Boston from any other American city (or maybe that is just a factor of American cities, rather than Gerritsen's writing!), and the characters are quite bland as well. Rizzoli is nothing new at all. It's not even as if the depiction of a professional, gutsy woman-in-a-man's-policeforce hasn't been done before, either. Admittedly, Gerritsen does do it quite well, but in the end it actually becomes repetitive, tired. <br />The prose ain't special, either. Occasionally, she does sparkle, but that is only when she narrates the short passages from the killer's point of view.<br />Gerritsen doesn't exactly do anything WRONG here, but its all very run-of-the-mill, seen it before kinda stuff. It's a pageturner, too. I read it really quickly and it passed the time of day enjoyably. But that is not enough any more, certainly not in the field of serial killer novels. To be honest, it'sa genre that's msotly had its day. Only really great writers who still have new things to say, original things, can still succeed in this genre, and they are the ones who are really getting down-and-dirty with humanity, reaching down into the murky, hellish depths of the souls of us all, and bringing back jewels. <br />My advice to Gerritsen would be to leave this kind of stuff to Mo Hayder, John Connolly and Thomas Harris. My advice to readers would be to pass this by unless you MUST read it, and pick up something by an of the other authors I've mention, who are still capable of bringing something new to this type of book.	2004-01-18
839612:US	40684262	R2QZ2HPC5OZ8YL	0099369206	135390452	Vanity Dies Hard	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Unusual - possibly not for all tastes	For fans of Rendell who admire her books, the way she turns the genre on its head, this is another brilliant example of Rendell's ingenuity. For new reader who like the conventional boundaries of the genre, this may not be quite so satisfying a book...<br />Suffice to say, it is well-written, engaging, with a set of interesting and well-developed character. Too, here Rendell really her theme (i.e. vanity, what it can lead to, what it can cause, how it expresses itself in people) and runs with it!  This is a marvellous exploration of vanity, she probes deeply into each of her characters with this interesting theme in mind.<br />With Vanity Dies Hard, she really confounds expectations. She turns everything we expect, everything we and the charachters assume, on its head, so that we can be sure nothing in the world of Rendell is certain...And it all makes such beautiful sense. This novel of hysteria and vanity is a unique gem from RR	2004-01-05
858435:US	40684262	R2IOZAMBRA9ZUH	0345312007	929665073	The Tree of Hands	Books	5	18	19	N	N	more first-class fiction	Benet Archdale's selfish mother Margaret (\\"Mopsa\\") was mad. She once tried to stab her 14 year old daughter with a carving knife as they travelled in a train together. Now, after many years Mopsa is supposedly recovered, living with her husband in Spain, while Benet, now a writer, remains alone in England with her young son James. <br />But now Mopsa has to return to England, to undergo some final assessments at the hospital where she was treated, and she is going to stay with her daughter, who constantly has to remind herself not to hate her mother who was, after all, mentally ill. This, then, is the set-up for Rendell's CWA Dagger-winning novel. And it is a set-up that leads to a violent chain of assault, deception, the kidnap of a child, and, finally, murder. <br />I normally end up saying mostly the same things about Rendell's brilliant books. Brilliant character, deadly psychology, complex, skilful plotting, fearful atmosphere, etc etc etc. This, I suppose, may give the impression that Rendell's books are all rather similar, but that is not so at all. They are all, every one of them, different and original and exquisite pieces of fiction. However, it is those factors (darkness, psychological brilliance, piercing character and social insight, seamless plotting) which unite her works undoubtedly. Each novel brings a different twist to the \\"formula\\" (I use quotation marks because there is actually no real formula for anything Rendell does), though, and each one sparkles. <br />The Tree of Hands is another excellent book from Rendell. It seems often that she can do no wrong, and I get sick of saying \\"another brilliant book by Rendell\\", but there is little else one CAN say when all an author's books are uniformly excellent. This book is unpredictable, shocking, horrifyingly compelling. The chain of events (Rendell has always been a first-class examiner of notions of cause-and-effect) unfolds with dreadful reality, horrific certainty and strength. It is rather saddening how Rendell shows us the numerous chances people may have to escape their fate, but don't take it. The course of destruction moves relentless on in Rendell's work. It is not cheerful fiction, not for those who like an up-lifting story. Instead, it is a dark work of dreadful consequence of the most innocent of actions, where normal people's lives become at risk through the influence of those who exist on some kind of edge of normalcy. The Tree of Hands is a brilliant, intelligent, shocking, haunting and eerie work that deserves fully its accolades.	2003-12-21
858778:US	40684262	R2GCIY1SPM64R7	0142003190	388495856	A Noble Radiance (Guido Brunetti, No 7)	Books	5	25	30	N	N	as pure as crime fiction gets	Donna Leon is wonderful. A Noble Radiance is the first book of hers that I have read, and I just know that she is wonderful. There is something so pure about this book. That's the only word i can think of to describe it. It is pure crime fiction, crime fiction with its heart in the plot, its pace in the movement of it, and its pleasure in the unravelling of it. Instead of giving us a deep and fascinating character study, Leon manages still to create a brilliant main character. He is developed subtly, gradually and fully, but he never becomes more important than the mystery. That is something lacking from some crime fiction today. The actual mystery takes a back-seat to things like setting, character, atmosphere. Here, the plot takes the front seat, but Leon still is able to present a brilliant backdrop, a wonderful atmosphere steeped in culture, and very fine characters. She uses seemingly large brushstrokes to draw them, and then fills in the details with tiny ones, imperceptible ones. She lays the clues masterfully, moves her plot along with brilliant skill. I can't really describe what a sublime pleasure it was to read this, and what joy I feel at having several more to read!<br />A Noble Radiance is an absolutely lovely book. Venice is beautifully described, i want to visit the city. It is very rare to find a book so rich in culture. (Also, the idea that the police of Venice have enough money spare form their budget to buy new flowers for the offices every week is an exquisitely romantic one)<br />I would reccomend Donna Leon to everyone. I can't believe i've been missing out for so long.	2003-12-20
862823:US	40684262	R3E2AVG1A8VCK	1400032520	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Brilliant - mature and riveting as only Rendell can be	Lord Martin Nanther is digging up the past, researching the life of his great-grandfather, the first Lord Nanther, in order to write his biography.<br />Henry Nanther was a physician to Queen Victoria, and an expert in diseases of the blood, in particular hemophilia. For his services to the Queen, Lord Nanther was the first surgeon to be granted a peerage. He kept meticulous notes and diaries, clearly desiring to one day be the subject of such a biography. However, as Martin delves further into Henry's life, he discovers discrepancies throughout, puzzling questions which seemingly make no sense. Such as, why did he break off his engagement to a wealthy heiress, marriage to whom would allow him access into the very social circle which he craved? Why did he choose to marry a poor solicitor's daughter instead? And what was the real story behind her violent death?<br />Even without these questions Martin is burdened enough. The House of Lords, in which he sits, is being reformed, and the hereditary peers (of which Martin is one) are being thrown out. If that weren't enough, his wife is unable to conceive the child she so desperately desires. To top it all off, Martin will also discover that his great-grandfather died with a monstrous secret.<br />This is a superb novel. Ruth Rendell has long been one of my very favourite authors, and reading this book has only cemented that opinion. I don't understand those who dont like tihs book. They perplex me inexpressibly. Did they not read it properly? Are they not incredibly stimulated by it, all the topics it covers and all the characters she flawless creates?<br />She weaves absolutely seamlessly between the past and the present. And the reader is just as interested in both plot strands (the research into Henry Nanther and the complications surrounding Martin Nanther's wife's inability to bring a child to birth.) She paints both eras excellently. Brilliant modern social observation and the ability to acurately depict our society, is matched by her ability to write authentically about events at the turn of the century. <br />The characters are drawn beautifully...very realistic and likeable (in particular, Jude, Martin's sorrowful wife) even the characters who lives over a hundred years ago are drawn well. Unusual for a Rendell novel, the characters are not actually mentally damaged in some serious way. There are no sleeping passions, no strange quirks, nothing which would make them seethe and finally explode. This is a tale about rather normal people uncovering horrible secrets from the past. <br />RR deals with the Reform of the House of Lords excellently. She offers us incredibly interesting glimpses into the institution, about which very little is known by most people. And the insights she gives us are truly fascinating. Martin's and the other hereditary peer's, departure from the Lord is written in such a way that it is subtly moving. The regalness and gothicness abd overall atmosphere is painted wonderfully. She has whetted the appetite, and i now wish i could know more about The House Of Lords!<br />The mystery about the first Lord Nanther's life slowly unfolds, and the truth is certainly strange. <br />There is so much that people reading this book could be interested in...there is genealogy, information on the royal family, information about blood diseases, in particular heamophillia, the subplot about the house of lords, the subplot of Jude's miscarriages...and, the icing on the cake, the mystery elements. This is truly a feast, and it is more than enough to satisfy her fans. Indeed, i think it will satisfy even those who are new to Vine/Rendell. All i can say is thank God for her - she is the best novelist currently at work in any language, and this is exceptional stuff even by her standards. If you don't love it, there's something deficient somewhere.	2003-12-16
866344:US	40684262	R1CDSEDS2199I2	0451405498	175779309	Anna's Book	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Clever, surprising, powerful	Well, what can I say but, This novel is by Barbara Vine (Ruth Rendell) and that means it is excellent. That statement is true of every single one of her 50 + books. Anna's Book is no exception (much more suitably titled, &quot;Asta's Book&quot; in the UK). It is an incredibly powerful mysery, brilliantly told. The narrative is so powerful that you become swept away, almost not noticing how brilliant the characters are, how stunningly she evokes the atmosphere of fin de siecle London, and the experience of a foreigner's integration into that often exclusive society. This is a remarkable book not just for the fact that it is a great mystery, but all the other things as well. <br />Boiled down very basically, it is about the unravelling of a mystery surrounding Anna, a Danish immigrant to the UK in 1905. Years later, an extensive series of diaries of her penship are found, and published to great acclaim. Soon, though, it becomes clear that something in those diaries contains the clue to a century-old unsolved murder and the disappearance of a young child...It is up to her grandaughter Ann, who has inherited the original diaries upon the death of her aunt, to delve deep into Anna's life, and an era about which society was very different to today. <br />Vine writes brilliantly, and she creates character with an almost unbelieveable ease. The mystery is woven in and plotted with a skill that astounds: certainly, if a reader were to ask &quot;If one book were to more purely exemplify Ruth Rendell's clearly brilliant plotting abilities, what would it be?&quot; I would answer heartily, &quot;Anna's Book&quot;!<br />Anna herself is a fascinating character, and her diaries entries are sprinkled throughout the novel, and make some brilliant reading. I found myself often having to tell myself that they were fiction, not the result of some Danish immigrant's boredom at the turn of the century. They alone are a remarkable achievement. I can only say well done to Rendell, for creating a sterling mystery novel, a brilliant character study, and a wonderful and atmospheric rendering of an old society gone by. Great stuff from Vine.	2003-12-13
868005:US	40684262	R6XTTYY351WLH	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Possibly the most deserving Booker winner of all time!	Brilliant, is all I can say of this. I do not much read literary fiction - I find that to appreciate it fully you need to invest a lot of time and effort while reading it, and I often don't have that time. Occasionally, though, a book will sound so good (eg. Jeffrey Eugenides' work, much of Ian McEwan's work) that I simply have to try it. This is one such book, a marvellous panoramic work of history and experience. <br />It is a long book, very long, and I was afeared that it might drag on, but not so! It remained fresh and interesting all of the way through, and i suspect that this is due mainly to the fact that we are reading, actually, two texts, both integrated into the book: The story of the life of Iris Chase, ailing nonogenarian whose sister drove her car off a bridge just after the war, and then also a novel written by that sister, Laura, which is part romance, part brilliantly imagined sci-fi story. I don't like sci-fi normally, but the stunningly vivid and imaginitive story interspersed through the text was an absolutely joy to read. It makes this whole novel shine. Some readers may believe that the structure of this book is a little complicated, confusing possibly, but it is not at all. Do not be put off! It is told beautifully and clearly, the structure is not complex at all really, although it may seem as if it should be, as we after all reading stories within stories.<br />This was my first book by Margaret Atwood, and it won't be my last. She has a way with words that is quite marvellous, a way of tuning a phrase that is as perfect as a chord played on a harp in a huge auditorium. (sorry, that's a rather obscure, silly similie, but it strikes so true to me). She also creates character perfectly; Iris, in particular, is a wonderfully realised being. An elderly woman wanting to set down some meaningful record of her life, some confmiration of her existence. <br />A marvellous book, this is. A book about the nature of writing, and what it means to do so,a book about life, all our lives, what they mean and they add up to in the end, a book about secrets and youth and age and love. it should be read by all.	2003-12-12
873660:US	40684262	R1GIV5AKCSQW33	0091726433	658725603	Talking to Strange Men	Books	5	15	16	N	N	More wonderful stuff from Rendell!	John Creevey could only guess at what the coded messages were for...were they the work of a drugs ring, a protection racket, a spy ring, or something else equally sinister? <br />Unbeknownst to him, John has stumbled upon some teenagers' spy-game, played out between two rival \\"centres\\" based in the city. They play amateurish espionage games, trying always to get one-up on one another, and leave coded messages detailing latest orders and objectives. Recently separated from his wife, John is lonely and slightly depressed, and becomes obsessed with these strange messages. Sometimes, he dedicates whole days to cracking the codes, and eventually these strange messages drag John and those around him down into a tangle of revenge and murder.<br />This is classic Rendell, which is of course to say that it is crime writing that does not get any better. The mundane details of everyday life ground the plot firmly in a hard reality, but the originality and hints of surrealism cast it into darkness and make it sparkle with something very special indeed. The characters are drawn with brilliant insight - the children playing their inconsequential power-games are brilliant generic creations, and John, obsessing over the codes and messages as they rush to fill the void in his life. Of course, the twin plotlines merge in the end as only a Rendellian plot can, in an understated cataclysm of unexpected brutality. She spins her web with care and tenderness, and then inevitably it traps its victim, horrifically.<br />In many ways, of course Talking to Strange Men is trademark Rendell. It contains everything we expect, but of course it is also unique in its originality. That she has written over 50 books now and has yet to repeat herself and continues to be original is a truly stunning achievement. Most authors become stale after about ten books. It is testament to Rendell's huge talent that she has not fallen foul of this - she has always refused to stick within boundaries of any kind, and the genre is far richer for her. <br />This book, also a clever homage to the espionage genre, is another superb achievement from the author. A twisted, strange, compelling piece of brilliance.	2003-12-07
873767:US	40684262	R3HYACSCLHRL00	0312321430	440330060	The Water Clock (Journalist Philip Dryden, 1)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Debut of the year?	Debuts are often described as \\"promising\\", their writers as \\"someone to watch\\". However, every year there are one or two that extend beyond that. They are not merely promising, they are the real achieved thing, immediate potential fulfilled, and they are not just someone to watch, they are someone to go and read, now. The Water Clock is just such a book, Jim Kelly one of those writers. In the best traditions of crime writing, Kelly is a journalist, as is his protagonist Phillip Dryden, a man still taunted by the grief of a car accident two years ago which left his wife Laura in a permanent coma. She exists in a nearby hospital, where he visits her every day. <br /> <br />One cold evening in the watery Cambridgeshire Fens, children skating on the ice spot something beneath, and hours later a car is winched, gushing chilled water, out of the frozen marshes. Inside, encased in a block of ice, is a mutilated body. The following day, after workmen ascend the Cathedral roof to carry out maintenance work that has not been required for decades, a decaying corpse is found grotesquely riding a stone gargoyle. On a part of the roof entirely hidden from view, it has been there for at least 30 years. <br /> <br />When forensic evidence links the two killings and a horrific crime committed in 1966, Dryden knows he's onto a great story. But, chasing it will draw him into a cloudy investigation of the past, as well as to some disturbing revelations about that night two years ago which changed his life forever, before taking him finally to an eerie house in the middle of the flooding Fen landscape. <br /> <br />This is not only one of the best debuts of the year, but possibly one of the best novels, too. It boasts a disturbing plot, and is brilliantly told in a wonderfully individual voice with its easy journalistic eye for telling details of character and story. Dryden is a likeable protagonist - always important - and though he doesn't quite stun the reader with amazement as Rebus, Scarpetta or Bosch may, he does still occasionally sparkle with a compelling and unfathomable complexity hidden behind a rather lonely, laid-back and slightly cynical veneer. He is certainly great company. <br /> <br />The marshy expanses of the Fen landscape are described absolutely brilliantly. Indeed, this almost jaw-dropping evocation of place and atmosphere is quite remarkable, The Fens become dark, ominous, malevolent; a brilliant backdrop to the story. Jim Kelly has done in one book for Norfolk what Reginald Hill is still doing for Yorkshire after 19. <br /> <br />There's a wonderful sly humour to the writing too. A humour that is witty, sharp, occasionally satirical, it underpins the narrative in places and makes the whole thing shine. Humphrey \\"Humph\\" Holt, the overweight cab driver who, effectively, acts as Dryden's constant chauffer, whose meter always reads £2.95 and whose taxi cassette-deck is perpetually playing foreign-language learning tapes is an absolutely brilliant comic creation!<br /> <br />The Water Clock, the cover of which boasts impressive blurbs from Colin Dexter, Val McDermid and even the wonderful Donna Leon, is a very impressive debut. I don't want to hype it up too much - it tends to lead to disappointment - but it's an atmospheric, dark and watery book well worth your time and cash	2003-12-07
877027:US	40684262	R3DOMO0T9CG9WI	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A brilliant panorama, original and very important	This is the sort of book that only comes along once a decade or more. A brilliant, sweeping portrait of a nation, a life, a history, a world, and what it means to be alive, to belong and to be a part of everything. It is beyond definition, as it's definition is itself. <br />As soon as I read his debut The Virgin Suicides (another excellent novel) i immediately started on this one, which i already owned. I found the words swimming by, the pages turning as if blown by the breeze, the real present dissolving into the world of the brilliant, brilliant story Eugenides mesmerisingly tells. <br />This novel covers so many issues, tells us so much in its reading: it deals with war, racism, depression, notions of nationality, notions of the American dream, notions of who we really are, notions of love, mystery and so very much else. As a Great American novel, it is probably the best I have read, by a long long way. It is warm, amusing, touching, but also sad in places, incredibly moving and enchanting. To be honest, my head is so full of thoughts and praise for this book that i can't really expurgate them to words coherently or logically, although i am not confident that Jeffrey Eugenides is probably the most important writer working today. <br />He shows incredible talent here to tell his story. In the brilliant of his narrative voice, the astuteness with which he draws his characters, (particularly our charming narrator, Cal) and the brilliance of his subtle, fluid plotting. The events of the century, as the characters move from Smyrna to Detroit, flow past as the characters experiences form something vaguely encompassing a huge work of universal life. This book, really, could be about any one of us. The experiences of the characters are our own, though shaped and moulded in some different way. <br />This brilliant panoramic read is a wonderful novel, a complete reinvention of the great American Novel. Jeffrey Eugenides is a remarkable writer, and this is just genius. Asa review, this fails entirely to convey what I think about this book.	2003-12-04
880771:US	40684262	R3RMM1OOSY16MX	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A delightful little tale	Skipping Christmas is a wonderfully invigorating little tale from Grisham - and most people who think differently seem to be missing the point. They seem to be expecting serious literature, either that or they are Grisham fans disappointed because this is not a legal thriller and is nothing like one. Of course its not! This claims to be nothing, not literature, not a legal thriller. And just because this is a departure from Grisham's style does not mean it is a bad book in any way. Because it is not what you're expecting does not merit a negative review. The preconceieved notions that people come to before they begin a book can spoil it entirely for them...<br />This is, basically, the story of a couple who, their daughter having gone away to do chairty work in Peru, decide to give themselves a break; to skip Christmas for this year, save the money and go on a small cruise instead. However, they've not bargained for the attitudes of their neighbours...<br />This is a lovely little story, wonderfully crafted, simply but well-told in Grisham's normal ludicrously-easy-to-digest prose. It shouldn't take you much more than a couple sittings, short as it is.<br />It may not be literature, but it does actually really make you think. Some of Grisham's observations are slightly facile, but that doesn't mean they aren't valid or true. Indeed, they are the same observations most people make every single day to one another. This develops into quite a complex tale, actually. It takes on kindness, community spirit, diverging from the pack, and, of course, the commerciality of Christmas and, in the end, reveals a simple yet warm heart. It's got a little suspense, too, in the &quot;Will they or won't they make their cruise?&quot; aspects of the story.<br />This is a lovely little read, ideal for the run-up-to Christmas. Ideal for anyone. Anyone at all. Amusing and entertaining, people with sympathetic characters, it should serve as the perfect relaxation for anyone who wants to take a little break from all the bustle of Christmas preparation! Read it, and judge it entirely as what it is: a good little story to at least make you reconsider some of the routines of Christmas.ake a little break from all the bustle of Christmas preparation! Read it, and judge it entirely as what it is: a good little story to at least make you reconsider some of the routines of Christmas.	2003-12-02
882612:US	40684262	R2JIN2TKV9USXC	0091554802	954641934	The Killing Doll	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Ruth Rendell is truly amazing	Ruth Rendell has written so many novels that publishers have a job keeping them all in print, all readily available, and normally they fail dismally, meaning that only the most recent novels are available, and older, equally brilliant little gems, are only eclectically available to readers, and thus people frequently miss out on the author's entire marvellous cannon. The problem is that if even one novel by Rendell remains out of print, readers are missing a unique and unequalable reading experience. The Killing Doll is just such a case - an absolutely unique book among her body of work, yet it retains all the factors which conspire to make each novel brilliant. Psychology, irony, chill, skin-crawling reality, brilliant characters, brilliant plots and shocking twists, etc etc etc.<br />The Killing Doll is a relatively hard novel to pin down. Most of Rendell's novels outside the Wexford series tend to be. This one is, on the one hand, a book about the Faustian pact of young Peter Yearman who sells his soul to grow taller, and soon becomes drawn, along with his adoring older sister Dolly, into the world of the occult. However, as Peter grows up he turns away from the magick he once believed in, and goes out into the real world. Unfortunately, Dolly - shy and friendless, nervous of going outside of the house due to a large birthmark on her cheek - cannot separate herself from it - she still believes his seeming powers are genuine. As events conspire to tip her further over the edge - from very early on it is clear that isolated Dolly, who talks to her dead mother and comes to make dolls representative of those she hopes Peter's magic will harm, is a little Schizophrenic - the novel from then on dwells in the very dark places of madness, as all the characters move along happily with their dangerous delusions, until the final catastrophic chapters in which all the events are brought to a shattering climax.<br />I adore her books. I have a passion and thirst for them which will not be slaked, and I defy anyone to deny that she is not one of the best novelists writing today. Fine, I have no problem with people disliking her books (after all, some people of course won't like keeping company with strange, slightly warped characters who tang with a disturbing, uncomfortable reality) if they find the things they cover slightly disturbing, but anyone should at least be able to admit the incredible quality which lies at the core, whether they like the subject matter or not. It is quality that sings to me, sings to me of damaged people and twisted things, terrible worlds of Shakespearean irony (the tradition of the great Tragedy is alive and well in Rendell's novels) , and lives lived at risk from those around us who need just a subtle trigger to send them to madness. She is an insightful, clever and diabolically vicious writer who never shies away from showing us a different side of life, and The Killing Doll is another work of genius.ch will not be slaked, and I defy anyone to deny that she is not one of the best novelists writing today. Fine, I have no problem with people disliking her books (after all, some people of course won't like keeping company with strange, slightly warped characters who tang with a disturbing, uncomfortable reality) if they find the things they cover slightly disturbing, but anyone should at least be able to admit the incredible quality which lies at the core, whether they like the subject matter or not. It is quality that sings to me, sings to me of damaged people and twisted things, terrible worlds of Shakespearean irony (the tradition of the great Tragedy is alive and well in Rendell's novels) , and lives lived at risk from those around us who need just a subtle trigger to send them to madness. She is an insightful, clever and diabolically vicious writer who never shies away from showing us a different side of life, and The Killing Doll is another work of genius.	2003-11-30
891428:US	40684262	R3ETLP26WYN1E7	1400032520	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Brilliant - mature and riveting as only Rendell can be	Lord Martin Nanther is digging up the past, researching the life of his great-grandfather, the first Lord Nanther, in order to write his biography.<br />Henry Nanther was a physician to Queen Victoria, and an expert in diseases of the blood, in particular hemophilia. For his services to the Queen, Lord Nanther was the first surgeon to be granted a peerage. He kept meticulous notes and diaries, clearly desiring to one day be the subject of such a biography. However, as Martin delves further into Henry's life, he discovers discrepancies throughout, puzzling questions which seemingly make no sense. Such as, why did he break off his engagement to a wealthy heiress, marriage to whom would allow him access into the very social circle which he craved? Why did he choose to marry a poor solicitor's daughter instead? And what was the real story behind her violent death?<br />Even without these questions Martin is burdened enough. The House of Lords, in which he sits, is being reformed, and the hereditary peers (of which Martin is one) are being thrown out. If that weren't enough, his wife is unable to conceive the child she so desperately desires. To top it all off, Martin will also discover that his great-grandfather died with a monstrous secret.<br />This is a superb novel. Ruth Rendell has long been one of my very favourite authors, and reading this book has only cemented that opinion. I don't understand those who dont like tihs book. They perplex me inexpressibly. Did they not read it properly? Are they not incredibly stimulated by it, all the topics it covers and all the characters she flawless creates?<br />She weaves absolutely seamlessly between the past and the present. And the reader is just as interested in both plot strands (the research into Henry Nanther and the complications surrounding Martin Nanther's wife's inability to bring a child to birth.) She paints both eras excellently. Brilliant modern social observation and the ability to acurately depict our society, is matched by her ability to write authentically about events at the turn of the century. <br />The characters are drawn beautifully...very realistic and likeable (in particular, Jude, Martin's sorrowful wife) even the characters who lives over a hundred years ago are drawn well. Unusual for a Rendell novel, the characters are not actually mentally damaged in some serious way. There are no sleeping passions, no strange quirks, nothing which would make them seethe and finally explode. This is a tale about rather normal people uncovering horrible secrets from the past. <br />RR deals with the Reform of the House of Lords excellently. She offers us incredibly interesting glimpses into the institution, about which very little is known by most people. And the insights she gives us are truly fascinating. Martin's and the other hereditary peer's, departure from the Lord is written in such a way that it is subtly moving. The regalness and gothicness abd overall atmosphere is painted wonderfully. She has whetted the appetite, and i now wish i could know more about The House Of Lords!<br />The mystery about the first Lord Nanther's life slowly unfolds, and the truth is certainly strange. <br />There is so much that people reading this book could be interested in...there is genealogy, information on the royal family, information about blood diseases, in particular heamophillia, the subplot about the house of lords, the subplot of Jude's miscarriages...and, the icing on the cake, the mystery elements. This is truly a feast, and it is more than enough to satisfy her fans. Indeed, i think it will satisfy even those who are new to Vine/Rendell. All i can say is thank God for her - she is the best novelist currently at work in any language, and this is exceptional stuff even by her standards. If you don't love it, there's something deficient somewhere.	2003-11-22
896055:US	40684262	R1NW3KVRNW7Y5I	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Excellent historical thriller	Harris, author of the acclaimed thriller's Fatherland and Archangel, has a hard task here: He must eke out suspense in a tale to which the final outcome will be known by every reader. Pompeii could well fall flat on its face, but instead it is a remarkable triumph. It straddled the bestseller lists in the UK for about 4 weeks, and should garner a similar reaction across the pond.<br />Its high summer along the Bay of Naples. The merchants are trading, the tourists are visiting, and the rich are lounging in their villas by the ocean. But all is not well...Recently installed Chief Engineer of the Aqua Augustus Maximus Atillius Primus senses trouble; springs have been failing for the first time in years, his predecessor remains missing, and fish have been dying in their pools. Everything indicates a problem with the aqueduct, a disruption somewhere on the sixty-mile mainline, on the Northern slopes of the great mountain Vesuvius. Then, one by one, the towns around the bay begin to loose their water supply...<br />One might think that because the reader automatically knows the outcome of the book (a horrendous eruption) it might be a little dull, but that is not true at all. Harris skirts the pitfalls presented by this potential lack of suspense by creating some great characters whose fates the reader cares about. Will they perish? Will they somehow escape? He also manages to weave in some excellent themes, most notably the slight shadowy parallels he draws between Rome, the superpower of the time, and modern-day America, and the subtle message that even a great power is irredeemably vulnerable when confronted by great unexpected destruction from within. In a way, he is warning us about complacency, but, more importantly, he is displaying how all the power in the world can not ensure our safety or complete peace-of-mind in this modern day-world, exactly as it could not then. It's rather clever how the book seems to reach across the years. <br />The historical detail isamazing, and the atmosphere - at first relaxed, then later full of fear - is built expertly. He makes everything so interesting. Certainly, I never would have believed I could enjoy reading about the workings of an ancient aqueduct! (Actually, there might be a little too much detail on the engineering ins-and-outs.) The pace is good, and the book is, often inexplicably - the beginning, the scene-setting, threatens to grow dull once or twice - a complete page-turner. It moves softly, until the final 100 pages, which are absolutely brilliant. Possibly the best final 100 pages I've read this year. Suddenly, the book explodes along with Vesuvius. The pace cracks like a whip and suddenly everything's full of electricity and terror as everyone flees and rushes about confused. Everything progresses in tense bursts and then aching graduality, with painfully slow descriptions of people trying to wade through thick ash, for example. It is a very effective juxtaposition. <br />Pompeii has everything: it is impeccably written, is crammed full of subtle historical information, it has death, destruction, undercurrents, mystery (the previous engineer went missing, remember) and even a little romance! As a thriller, I would recommend it highly. As an enjoyable education, I would recommend it unreservedly.	2003-11-18
896161:US	40684262	R3LQQ2OO7BLQWM	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Not her strongest....but still superior	One morning, by chance, Commander Dalgliesh has opportunity to visit the Dupayne, a small private museum on the edge of Hampstead Heath. It deals with the inter-war years, 1918-1939, and its most renowned exhibition is The Murder Room, a display of artefacts and information on the most notorious murder cases of the day. However, within a week Dalgliesh will have cause to return to the Dupayne, but not for recreational purposes this time. This time, he will be investigating a brutal murder. <br />Dr Neville Dupayne, one of the three trustees of the museum, it being passed on to him and his brother and sister upon the death of their father, is found dead in a burning car near the museum, in a scenario exactly mirroring one of the cases featured in the bizarre Murder Room. And there is no lack of people with a motive, for the Dupayne is coming up for renewal of it's lease which, under the conditions of their late father's will, must be signed by all three trustees or will become void, and Neville is the only one who refuses to sign. Yet there are several people whose futures have a strong stake in the future and continued running of the museum... <br />Then, mere days later, another body is found, once again killed in an identical manner to one of the cases from the Murder Room... <br />Perhaps not quite James's strongest novel, this is still a very good book, and will undoubtedly follow on the immense success of her last, Death in Holy Orders. As a novel, it is traditional in its form, but with James that means nothing, certainly not that you are in for anything like a &quot;cosy&quot; mystery. Content within the boundaries of the genre, she finds those limits not limiting at all, instead using them as foundations and support for an incredibly worthy novel that tells us much about the human condition and the society we, in England at least, live in. It is impeccably written (of course), socially interesting, with a strikingly strong sense of morality, and I doubt thatthere is a writer at work today who can more subtly but fully evoke a setting. Too, the eerie nostalgia of the museum itself is mirrored beautifully in both the story and the narrative prose itself. <br />Her characters are incredibly strong and she draws them with almost astonishing subtlety; they slink from the page fully-formed and ready for our judgement. They range from the sympathetic to the cold, from calculating to warm. Never are any of them less than human. <br />The Murder Room doesn't quite dazzle with brilliance like novels by Ruth Rendell, Peter Robinson, or even some of James' other books, but it is still an outstanding example of its genre, and it certainly proves that only British novelists can write perfectly about Britain. It leaves foreign imitators languishing by the wayside. It's an intelligent, very literate book which should please all her fans and lovers of such novels. In the end, she presents a solution that is very satisfying not for that it is a bolt from the blue, but for that it is entirely sensible. She has you working out complicated solutions to the mystery, then presents you with an entirely plausible one that you never really even considered, which is an admirable trait indeed in a world of fiction that is far too full of gratuitous unreality.	2003-11-18
897806:US	40684262	R1RHLIZEED8R47	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Prime Patterson!	Who's afraid of the big bad wolf? <br />Well...probably no one, because Patterson doesn't develop him or invest him with much genuine, convincing menace at all. <BR>Colourful, yes, but not really scary. <br />The Wolf in question is a powerful and vicious Russian gangster, the latest dragon which Alex Cross must slay. All across America, people are being bought and kidnapped. It's a sort of white-slave ring open to the highest bidder. And, who is operating this? The Wolf, of course, a \\"terrifying\\" mystery-man and huge undiscovered stain on the name of justice. Throw in twists, murders, Cross's new experiences in the FBI where he now works, and you have a typically riveting James Patterson book. Oh yes, and Alex Cross's family is, shockingly, in danger again too. But, this time, not from death... (It's quite a decent sub-plot, actually, but it's as severely underdeveloped as only Patterson can accomplish.) <br />One of these days I will see sense and stop buying Patterson's books. I mean it. They're bad. (After all, if you ever tried to think of them \\"seriously\\" you'd laugh so hard your sides would require sewing back up.) But, I expect it's about as likely to happen as your average person saying \\"I really must put in more time at the gym\\" and actually doing it. And why? Because his books - the Cross series in particular, which remains my strong favourite - are so jolly entertaining. Indeed, The Big Bad Wolf is excellent. Prime Patterson. Very fast, very snappy, very very enjoyable. I loved it. The series is firmly back on track, I feel. Or, at least, as much back on track as it is ever going to be considering Patterson's style and that this is now just easy pop-fiction for the undemanding time-starved masses and always will be. It's all cheerfully - and also ineffectually - dramatic (when he uses exclamation marks after a statement, you find it hard to stifle the chuckles) and very implausible, and also at times woefully underdeveloped. Sometimes I get the feeling that if Patterson developed everything more, his books could be just as entertaining but also much more worthy and far better than merely \\"very entertaining\\". Instead, the plots fly along and his characters (who could actually be quite interesting) are reduced merely to proper-nouns and pronouns. But, this isn't going to change so I must stop complaining and just enjoy it. This style is here to stay, and as it is it works adequately enough. <br />Patterson fans should really enjoy this one - eve if it's end is a little too quick and open-ended. After all, it has everything. A killer, Cross, his family, heartless killings, twists, and even issues with Cross trying to fit in with his new job at the FBI (Once again, if only these issues were explored more fully...*sigh*) Even the quality of the writing has improved a little again. Normally, you'll find yourself jolted along by a proliferation of simple sentences, but not so here. I spotted several (yes, several!) compound and complex ones as well this time! It's formula is almost exactly the same as any other Cross book, but don't let that stop you. As I've said, James Patterson is not for you if you are looking for anything more than a simple, entertaining story, but if that is what you're looking for, he's your man. His books are my very guilty but very pleasurable pleasure.	2003-11-17
898849:US	40684262	R1QHR2QCW8DGU7	0375726500	424501834	Grasshopper	Books	5	6	6	N	N	original, haunting, brilliant!	Because of the accident on the pylon, Clodagh has been banished to the city, to a dingy basement flat below the large house of one of her parents' friends. Soon, prisoner of her near-claustrophobia, she bursts free when she discovers the residents of the top floor of nearby 15 Russia Road. Caring Silver, violent Jonny, weak and waspish Liv, and mysterious Wim. However, coming into contact with this fascinating bunch of misfits and their curious come-and-go lifestyle as they roam free up on the roofs will put Clodagh right in the path of tragedy once more...<br />This book is both everything you would expect from Vine, and also a lot more besides. Some, I suppose, may be disappointed with the fact that it does veer off in a slightly unexpected direction and become a book entirely different from what you might at first have suspected, but others should simply appreciate the author's ability to take her story in unexpected, original directions. Grasshopper is a brilliantly eerie, haunting piece of work right from its stunning opening sentence - \\"They have sent me here because of the accident on the pylon.\\" - it is nostalgic and shadowy, and ominous to the last word. Foreboding cats a dark cloud over the whole plot and all the characters, and the writing is superb, as ever. The whole thing shivers and sways as the plot moves gradually along and suspense is eked out mercilessly. <br />The characters are fascinating - brilliantly drawn and entirely real. Vine (and Rendell) has always been at her best when she is creating a story about a group of people variously damaged in some way. There is no writer more adept at placing herself squarely in the collective mind of society's deviants; those who exist on its periphery. Here, in particular, she shows a piercing ability to write about the young with accuracy and, very occasionally, tenderness.  <br />The book, although shiveringly realistic, is made to sparkle by the fact that it, at times, is rather surreal. The group of misfits, exploring London from its roofs, and their adventures, add a distinct magical quality to the book that is entirely missing in most fiction. It creates in the readers a deep longing to even briefly experience the bizarre world of these characters, to live as freely as they do in their eccentric way, while all the while they want to distance themselves because it's clear something dreadful is going to happen. <br />Something rare in a Vine novel is its warmth. It's not a warmth that is obviously apparent, but it is there, if you trouble to look for it. It sits cosily beneath the story and only really makes itself clear when you finish it. It is only a tiny bit of warmth, though, but it is vaguely comforting, especially after the disastrous end. I've read people complain that this book is too predictable, too easily guessable because Vine hints at the outcome too often. Not true! The final satisfying surprise, I assure you, is as elusive as ever in a Vine novel. Admittedly, some of the twists along the way are guessable, but Vine makes it clear that that is exactly the point, through her narrator, at least once. Personally, therein is another beauty of the book: the fact that you can see things about to occur, but there is nothing you can stop them and there is also no way you could possibly stop reading. <br />Grasshopper, a book about freedom and responsibility and growing up and belonging (in the end, we realise, along with Clodagh, that the place we all of us should really belong is the place where we are welcomed, where we are accepted most warmly,) is another fine novel from Barbara Vine.	2003-11-16
915822:US	40684262	RF85OUC5LYSI5	0140252800	31402136	Brimstone Wedding	Books	5	56	57	N	N	amazing	Genevieve Warner, a young woman trapped in a hopeless affair and a loveless marriage, works at Middleton Hall, a home for the elderly. Most of the residents are pleasant enough, contentedly reminiscing about their lives to their carers, but Stella is different. Stella and Genevieve immediately form a bond, taking to one another, seeing little bits of their own personality and situation within the other. Unlike other residents, though, Stella is sharp, smart, and in control, and she does not share the memories of her past, so retains a definite air of mystery. But Stella is dying of lung-cancer, and now she feels a desperate need to tell someone the story of her eventful life, so that her secrets do not die with her, following her into the grave, unknown forever. Thus, she decides to tell her story to Genevieve, slowly unfolding a tale that is moving, powerful, and, ultimately, subtly horrific. <br />This, &quot;The Brimstone Wedding&quot;, is yet another masterpiece of atmospheric fiction from Barbara Vine (Ruth Rendell). Yet again she synthesises her twin storylines ­ one in the past, one in the present ­ brilliantly, and they eerily mirror each other down the generations. She builds the atmosphere brilliantly in both the time periods, and the suspense is continually ratcheted up, helped along by subtle and tantalising hints as to what exactly Stella's shocking secret could possibly be. <br />This time around, the characters are also more likeable than is the norm for a Vine novel, so it has a warmer, deceptively (and dangerously) cosy feel, which is juxtaposed with the usual chilly atmosphere and down-to-the-bones and wonderfully detached writing style. They're characters you are motivated to care deeply about, which serves to make this not only a powerful in places but also very moving. Certainly, there was one point when I even shed a few tears. <br />The story is told brilliantly, giving readers enough information to satisfy, but yet as little as possible, toensure that they need continually to turn the page to find out more. It all culminates excellently with a shocking revelation about the true nature of Stella's secret. This revelation is not overblown and exaggerated, as some authors might make it, instead Vine underplays it, clearing it entirely of melodrama and simply telling things exactly as they were, which forces the reader to actually think about it, thus bringing huge power to the climax. <br />This, a masterpiece that is the sum of many excellent parts, is a complete triumph for Vine, matching up very equally with my previous favourite of hers, the erotic and chilling genius that is &quot;No Night Is Too Long&quot;. Neither of these books should be passed over by any reader worth their salt.	2003-11-03
929706:US	40684262	R3W4NOY10H0ZJD	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	5	6	15	N	N	Not as bad as these reviews make it seem	It's lonely down here, being what often seems like the only Cornwell left among the sea of the enlightened. I can shout as loud as I like, but no one will ever hear me...<br />It's been a long time since the last Scarpetta novel, the powerful \\"The Last precinct\\", and Blow Fly begins a couple of years after it. The waters are, on the surface at least, calm again. Kay has retreated to Florida where she is now a Private Forensic Consultant. She abides a quiet and lonely existence despite the fact that Jay Talley is still on the loose. Lucy remains in New York, running her undercover agency, and Marino's life - still lived in Richmond - has steadily fallen apart, while his wayward son Rocco continues to minister to the legal (more correctly, illegal!) needs of the Chandonne family. But things are slowly changing....Kay is called in by a Louisiana coroner. Many women have disappeared over recent years, and there is one curious murder case in particular that he wants her to take a look at. Then, she gets a letter from Jean-Baptiste Chandonne, who is waiting quietly on Death Row in Texas. He will tell all he knows about the criminal activities of his family in exchange for two things: One, he will tell them only to Scarpetta, and two, she wants her to be the one who administers the fatal injection. But Blow Fly neither begins nor ends there...<br />I don't quite know how to begin, and I'm rather frustrated that I have so little space in which to say so much. Blow Fly, the latest instalment in the continuing Scarpetta saga, is a must for Scarpetta fans. There will be two outcomes: further disappointment, or great enjoyment. Either way, you won't know unless you try, and you should really read it to follow the series. Personally, I loved it for the most part - although I can understand why some might hate it. It's got all the usual terrific forensic detail (she never fails there,) it's stuffed full of marvellous plot, absolutely crammed full of interesting story, twists, turns, shocks (there is one in particular) and has some excellent new characters, such as Nic Robilliard, the single-mom Baton Rouge policewoman. However, Cornwell does also seem to forget some of the characters from previous books (For example, what on earth happened to Lucy's business partner Teun McGovern?) Scarpetta, Marino, and Lucy are excellent once again, even though this book is less focused on the good doctor herself. <br />This is due in part to the switch to third-person narration. This allows Cornwell to let this book take a step back, to inspect her other characters more closely rather than solely through the prism of Scarpetta's mind. I found it a very interesting and rewarding change, but also, at times, the reader may feel rather adrift without Scarpetta to give them a solid anchor. This new style of hers is at first incredibly compelling. Her eccentric and vivid, almost hallucinogenic present-tense prose is very powerful, but by the end it does seem a little jerky and got a little exhausting to read. But that was also because there is such a lot of luscious plot to hold in your mind. Some readers may despise the new style, and others may love it. I found it pleasingly refreshing. I get a little annoyed sometimes when everyone criticises Cornwell for deviating from her norms. If she had stuck with the same old formula for 12 straight books, this series would have gone stale long ago. Instead, she has experimented with plot and character and style, and in my view the series has grown and expanded for it. Scarpetta has grown, too. Some again criticise this, say she's grown too bleak, but if she were anything else, that would be entirely unbelievable, considering all that's happened to her. Scarpetta has altered and grown with her experiences, and she is rounded and endearing because of it. <br />Some people will dislike Blow Fly for the fact that it is - in part - about Chandonne again, but there's not a lot to be done about that (or the fact that it's end signals yet another Chandonne episode.) You can either complain, or wait patiently until Cornwell decides it's time to move on to something else. Certainly, if she just dropped the whole storyline, you can be sure people would moan even more. Let it carry through, and accept that it must, is all I can say. <br />In the end, you will either love of hate Blow Fly. You will either love the new style of hate it, either love the plot or hate it, either love the characters or hate them, either love the end or hate it. Me, I really liked it, despite its flaws. If you have reservations, get it from the library, but still give it a chance. Just because it's different doesn't mean it's bad. It just means it's different. <br />I hope I don't have such a long wait for the next one.	2003-10-23
931187:US	40684262	R34WA0OECF3Q4K	140004930X	596030198	The Babes in the Wood: A Chief Inspector Wexford Mystery	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The rains came down/the floods came up	After intense heavy rain around Kingsmarkham Valley, the River Brede swells, until it eventually bursts its banks, casting forth its murky waters to flood the surrounding area. <br />When Katrina and Roger Dade return home from a weekend in Paris, they discover the house empty. Their children ­ Giles and Sophie, both in their teens ­ have disappeared along with Joanna Troy, Katrina's friend who was &quot;babysitting&quot; them. Mrs Dade immediately panics, assuming without reason that her children have drowned in the floods. <br />The Subaqua Task Force can find no trace of any them in the waters. All three of them have vanished into thin air, and there seems no possible motive for their disappearance. Then, it emerges that 15- year-old Giles was connected to a mysterious Christian group, The Church of the Good Gospel. <br />It's been three long years since Rendell's last Chief Inspector Wexford novel, and now she returns him, and they are both on characteristically fine form once again. It's a real treat to be able to view the curiosities of this world, as he sees them, through the filter of Wexford's pondering eye again. This, in my view is one of the strongest of the Wexford series, boasting an especially original and intriguing plot, made all the more-so because of the unusual occurrence of the flooding in Kingsmarkham Valley, which allows what might otherwise be a normal plot to go down different avenues. <br />As always, the psychology of it all is brilliant. She presents us with a set of seemingly inexplicable human behaviours, and then, through her plot, proceeds to explain then and how they can come about, in the end making it all seem to reasonable. And even if the police procedural aspects aren't as good as, say, in an Ian Rankin novel, she more than makes up for that with her explorations of the human elements behind crime. <br />As well as the interesting and well-paced main plot-line, there's also a great sub-plot involving Wexford's own family who are always great to read more about. <br />There are twists throughout, and the final solution is also surprising and mostly satisfying, but for the fact that the reader has only met the culprit once or twice throughout the novel. However, you can't really criticise this fact, as Rendell's novels have rarely been &quot;traditional&quot; solvable ones. Instead, her books are more explorations of contemporary society and crime. They are grounded in realism and real society. And, in realism, there are rarely easy clues and red-herrings to aid the intrepid detectives. Rendell's novels often reflect this very well. This is another absolutely first-class crime novel from the ever- expert Ruth Rendell.	2003-10-21
941237:US	40684262	R1U84KOWNR111	0385509456	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliantly insightful	&quot;This is a murder-mystery novel&quot;, we are told by our narrator, Christopher Boone. Christopher has Asperger's Syndrome, a form of autism. He loves maths, lists, order, timetables, patterns, and the truth. He cannot even comprehend how to tell a lie. He also likes the colour red, but he hates yellow and brown, and being touched.<br />One morning, Christopher finds a neighbours dog killed on their front lawn, a garden fork sticking out of its chest, and he vows to discover the truth. And it is a truth that will turn his fragile world entirely on its head. <BR> <BR>There's not a great deal to say about this wonderful book that hasn't already been said. It marks the debut of an incredibly talented and insightful author, who is able to move and inspire awkward laughter at the same times. <br />The unfailingly logical Christopher is a brilliant narrator, a wonderful character who will, I assure you, inspire deep feelings in all who share his company through this. And, as the book turns from a deceptively simple &quot;murder-mystery&quot; into a catalogue of events that will have very wide implications for this boy, the reader is moved and moved again by Haddon's portrait of a courageous boy coping dissociatedly against all odds with the dramatic shifts in his life.  This is a very funny book, too, as much as a touching and moving one. I found myself laughing out loud, even though I had the uncomfortable feeling that maybe I shouldn't be. <br />This is a unique, one-of-a-kind, special book, the like of which will probably never be seen again. It's the sort of novel that ahs you rationing the chapters out (incidentally, the chapters are headed only with ascending prime numbers! Little touches like this make the book sparkle) to prolong the experience for as long as possible, until eventually you succumb and can torture yourself no more, and you let yourself be carried on to the inexplicably moving (there's that word again. But it applies so well) end. Stunningly insightful, honest, and full of empathy, The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time is a book of rare original quality indeed. You will be less for letting it pass by.	2003-10-14
946167:US	40684262	R37LXS46F68PMJ	0345327462	864198690	An Unkindness of Ravens	Books	5	41	43	N	N	another excellent Rendell novel	An \\"Unkindness\\" is the collective noun for a group of ravens. They are not particularly predatory birds, but neither rare they soft and submissive. Now, the Raven has become the symbol of a militant feminist group known as Arria, whose attitude to the male gender is, like the nature of said bird, far from submissive. <br />When Chief Inspector Wexford was asked to investigate the disappearance of his neighbour Rodney Williams he was certain it was just a case of another middle-aged man having run-off with a young woman. All the signs pointed that way. A waste of time to concern yourself with, his thoughts tell him. However, he would be shocked to his core when, weeks later, Rodney's disappearance turns out to be the centre of a violent and bizarre murder. <br />As reliable as ever, this is Rendell - and Wexford - once again on fine form. If you want an entertaining, intelligent and realistic with piercing insights into society, Ruth Rendell is the author to whom you should turn. The Wexford series remains the best example of the English detective story currently being produced. It stands out not just for its layered intelligence, but its unflinching social observancy, its piercing insight into human nature, and its warm (sometimes!) and nostalgic centre in the form of Reg Wexford. <br />This novel is a very strong addition to the series. Rendell's mystery is intricate and dramatic and original and very intriguing, with a plausible solution that will shock if not surprise. An Unkindness of Ravens is an excellent book of detection as well as being a vehicle for Rendell's unerring observational insight into society and its constant shifts and changes. It is well worth anyone's time.	2003-10-09
948837:US	40684262	R24RXUZWUFLEI6	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Pratchett having rollicking fun	Join up! Fight for your country! Serve the Duchess! Join the Monstrous Regiment, with it's full compliment of trolls, vampires and, well, women...<br />Polly Perks disguises herself as a man in order to enlist in the army, to go and find her brother, lost on the battlefields at the edge of the Kingdom. The Kingdom is Borogravia, and, of course, there's a war on. There's always a war on. The little repulic of Borogravia is a war-like nation, with a penchant for generation-long feuds and border disputes with its neighbours. But, now those neighbours have formed an alliance (indeed, you might wonder what took them so long) and their forces are marching on Borogravia, and it's going to be up to the Monstrous Regiment to use all it's resources to win the day...ALL it's resources. <br />You get the impression when reading this that it was great fun to write. Great fun to write. That's because it's great fun to read. It's hardly the greatest Discworld book, however. Some of the themes are merely only touched upon, and you do get the sense that Pratchett was just going through the motions a little, concentrating on the fun of writing it, rather than trying to eke out depth and meaning upon meaning which some of his very best books do. NEVERTHELESS, this is still excellent stuff, and there's no way it should get less than five stars. <br />It's great fun to acquaint yourself with new characters and new scenery, as this is completely new territory for Pratchett. And some of those characters, too, are brilliant...especially the marvellous Sergeant Jackrum, who we really should see more of, and the delightful vampire Maladict, who just oozes intellectual superiority. The mountain of cameos is also quite entertaining (Vimes, Angua, William de Worde, DEATH, Buggy Squires, Reg Shoe) but because they don't really serve a great purpose, that adds to the initial feeling that this is, actually, not quite Discworld-lite, but Discworld-a-little-bit-liter-than-Night-Watch, which was so heavy I felt like I'd read a piece of lead (but, still, five stars again.) Because, of course, this isn't lite at all. It's just a little less serious. There are some very good notions and ruminations on war which Pratchett explores, and actually some very moving moments, which I really wasn't expecting. Pratchett doesn't normally do &quot;moving&quot;, but there were definitely one or two occasions of it here... He also has a nice amount of fun exploring gender-confusion, men dressed as women dressed as men, etc. Indeed, he's beginning to display an almost Shakespearean fondness for having his characters dress up as the opposite sex. <br />All in all, I reccomend this unreservedly to the Pratchett fan, and also think that it's probably not too bad a place for a newbie to begin... It's fun and funny, and definitely worth your time.<br />Now we can all get busy looking forward to his next &quot;Young Adult&quot; (ha!) effort, A Hat Full of Sky, due next Spring...	2003-10-07
951323:US	40684262	R3QKE97NEDZF3D	074323796X	480038385	Blind to the Bones: A Crime Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Impressive effort	Two years ago, student Emma Renshaw disappeared while on her way home from university. Now, a new discovery in remote countryside prompts the police to reinvestigate the case. But, Diane Fry, in charge of the case, finds herself with a hard task made even worse by Emmas parents, who are still expecting their daughter to be found, to come home to them, to return when shes ready. They have been pestering the police and her friends ever since her disappearance, note the time of every phone-call just in case it is Emma, keep her car ready and waiting in the garage, and retain all of her Christmas presents in her bedroom  not touched since she left  upstairs. <br />Eventually, Dianes search leads her to the dark, isolated village of Withens, where she runs into Ben Cooper, who has been temporarily seconded to the Rural Crime Squad, and is investigating both a series of burglaries and a vicious murder. A young man has been battered and left for dead up on the moors, left for the crows to find, and Ben finds nothing but a wall of silence. The man is a relative of the Oxleys, the oldest family in the area, descended from the very first men who buried under the moors to build the railways tunnels for 3 miles under the moors. But the Oxleys are a secretive family, protective of their own, and they refuse to talk to Ben, an outsider. Thus, progress on the investigation is almost nil. And, to compound Bens problems, Diane Frys sister, who ran off when they were teenagers, turns up out of the blue, seeking his help. She wants him to convince Diane to stop looking for, to forget her private investigations and leave things be. With the two officers relationship tense and fragile at best, this is a shift in the dynamic which could easily destroy it altogether. <br />Stephen Booth has, within the space of only four novels, safely joined the impressive ranks of Reginald Hill and Peter Robinson as Englands most accomplished northern crime novelists. This series, set mostly on and around the remote moors of Derbyshire, has everything. The plots are cracking and clever, paced and patterned masterfully, and the writing is very good indeed, but the most powerful feature of the series is Booths atmospheric evocation of place, which is dark and brooding and brilliant. The moors become terrifying, ominous and eerie, yet they also retain a dark beauty which draws the reader right in. And that ability to create atmosphere is displayed more strongly than ever in this fourth book, and all throughout the book he comes up with some excellent reflections of the gradual decay of the moors. The village of Withens, shrinking and dying; the forgotten churchyard, overgrown and tangled with weeds; the long-established family slowly finding themselves rent asunder.<br />Booth also has a great aptitude for character. His minor characters are as fascinating and well-developed as his two leads, who themselves possibly make up the most interesting duo on the scene in crime fiction. The relationship between Cooper and Fry is complex and compelling, its shifts and undercurrents have a way of making the reader slightly nervous. The tension between the two is palpable, and the obviousness of the fact that they do care about one another, on various levels, often has the reader imploring them to take a step back and just listen to one another properly just for a change. To be honest, I doubt there is another relationship with as great a dynamic and level of interest in all the crime genre. The series is worth reading just for the shifts and changes and subtle nuances in the pairs attitude toward one another.  <br />Stephen Booth has won the Barry award for Best British novel two years running, and, with the fact that Blind to the Bones is the strongest novel yet in this powerful series, I wouldnt be at all surprised if he snatches it for a well-deserved third time.	2003-10-05
963389:US	40684262	R3562RXPXKRZHR	0312301995	724784491	The Distant Echo (Mcdermid, Val)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Something rotten in the state of St. Andrews	Its December 1978 in St Andrews, Scotland, and the town is held in the smooth grip of a blanket of snow. Four young men are stumbling home from a party, taking a shortcut over Hallow Hill, when one of them discovers, half-buried in the snow, the body of young barmaid Rosie Duff, bleeding profusely and barely alive. Unfortunately, she dies before any help can arrive, and the four lads become, for lack of any contrary evidence, the only suspects. <br />Fast-forward 25 years. Now, Fife police have set up a cold-case review team, to apply new techniques to unsolved cases. And one of the cases they will be looking into the notorious Rosie Duff murder. The original quartet of suspects has now been scattered to the four winds. Their bond has been strained almost to breaking by the suspicion that they had to bear, and all their lives have been fundamentally changed by what they uncovered that evening. <br />Then, one of them dies in a suspicious fire, and the four remaining friends are brought together again with a crash. But, soon, further events conspire to make it abundantly clear that someone is wreaking vengeance or Rosie Duff. Someone who is determined to see that the most harsh of justice is finally meted out to those who killed her<br />Its rather clear, even from just reading a brief synopsis, that Val McDermids latest book is going to be very, very good. <br />The Distant Echo returns McDermid to the dizzying heights of A Place of Execution (which, really, is so good that it must be placed outside the genre of crime), while retaining all the sheer enjoyability factor of other successes such as Killing the Shadows. Its an excellent book, destined for great success. Its an intense examination of how suspicion can affect lives, tear them apart, and of the bonds that tie people together, and what it takes to break them. <br />Its excellently written, and the plot is original and fascinating, and plenty of twists are provided along the way tokeep the reader satisfied and interested. Theres enough atmosphere to convince the reader that McDermid is far more than just going through the motions, and the characters are well drawn and real enough to care about. The Distant Echo is a triumph, and a prime example of why McDermid is one of the best thriller writers we have.	2003-09-25
967788:US	40684262	RU4K5F1S4ME9A	0688174582	266560980	A Faint Cold Fear	Books	5	5	6	N	N	nice strong novel from Slaughter - promising indeed	Every decade or so writers come along who smash themselves a niche in the bestseller lists (often, some say, regardless of quality). In the 70's, it was Stephen King, the late eighties John Grisham, the early nineties Patricia Cornwell, and the late nineties saw James Patterson burst to huge almost unimaginable mega-bestsellerdom. Karin Slaughter (only with the right marketing, of course) could possibly be the first name of the 20th century to be added to that list, whether she really deserves it or not. A Faint Cold Fear though, certainly, displays a growing maturity to Slaughter's work that is pleasing indeed to behold. Gone is the slightly slapdash plotting of Blindsighted, gone is the stark rawness of Kisscut, and even the quality of the writing itself continues to improve bit-by-bit. <br /> <br />It begins with a suicide. A college student is dead, having leaped from a bridge on campus. At first, nothing seems very out of the ordinary to medical examiner Sara Linton, but then someone suffers a horrific attack, and the whole affair is cast in a new disturbing light. Two more suspicious suicides follow, but nothing seems to point anywhere specific at all. There are vague leads pointing to drugs, possibly jealousy, maybe even racial hatred, but nothing very strong or concrete. However, it quickly becomes apparent that Lena Adams - ex-police detective and now part of the college security team - may hold crucial information. But, bruised and bitter from her expulsion from the force, Lena is still very much damaged by the events which led up to her downfall, and even if she were keen to co-operate with Chief of police Jeffery Tolliver, it is clear that she may not even be capable, in herself, of doing so.<br /> <br />One of this series' most obvious strengths - for me, anyway- is its central trinity, all of whom are fascinating. They're not always 100% believable (to be honest, they seem to have a few too many \\"issues\\", very interesting to read about though those issues may make them) but they are still entertaining and more than capable of sustaining this series for a very long time indeed. That there are three central characters means that things can remain fresh and new and interesting for a lot longer than in other series'. Sara stays the level-headed moral arbiter, Jeffery remains the sometimes temperamental dispenser of justice, and Lena the damaged and tortured soul who likes to appear strong and who is just trying to cope (badly) in her own confused way. Indeed, Lena is either a character you will love or hate. She can be rather prickly and stubborn, and, admittedly, has a great many woes, but she is slowly beginning to grow on me. Although maybe that's because Slaughter certainly doesn't treat her very well at all in this book, and hasn't really for the entire series!<br /> <br />The bottom line is that this is a successful, satisfying novel with enough forensic detail to give it that Cornwellesque edge and a good, involving, twisty story. Oh, yes, and it does have a shocking last-paragraph sting in its tail that'll have you gasping. Slaughter appears to have hit her stride.	2003-09-21
999765:US	40684262	RQNIZY0LBGN9V	0399149708	525228938	Bad Company (Higgins, Jack)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Pretty bad, if I'm honest, but enjoyable!	Our story begins at the funeral of Kate Rashid, the villainess of Higgins's last thriller, whom undercover enforcer Sean Dillon managed to kill before she wrought her vengeance upon him for killing her three beloved brothers. Dillon and his companions watch on, increasingly uneasy at the presence of Baron Max von Berger, a multi-millionaire friend of the Rashid's, who has now interhited their old empire in the Hazar that is worth billions. <br />Now, von Berger himself wants revenge, and it is a matter of honour. Kate Rashid once saved his life, and she was a very dear friend. He is determined to exact justice on those who conspired to destroy the Rashid's and their empire: Dillon, his friend in the government General Charles Ferguson, and their colleague, White House insider Blake Johnson. But, unknown to them, Berger has a secret weapon. In the waning days of WWII Hitler entrusted von Berger, his close aide, with his diary detailing the final six months of the war, and a meeting he had with President Roosevelt which could have stopped the war before it started. <br />Bad Company is another of Higgins's increasingly by-the-numbers, cliched, formulaid thrillers that just reuse aspects from his other books (boats blown-up, planes crashed, assassinations, etc), but it is a primse example. A one character says of the events in the book, \\"It's like a bad novel\\", and that is exactly what they are. They are the evnets of a bad novel. however, they are also the envets of an entertaining story, and this is exactly what this is. A great story, a nice adventure. It's fast, thrilling, enjoyable, nothing more. nothing less. If you are looking for great writing, don't come here. If you're looking for a plot that wont fall apart under close scrutiny, also don't come here. If you're simply looking for a quick, easy read that's a bit James Pattersonesque in style, then do come here. <br />There's only one little problem, really: Dillon is flat and cardboard. Higgins has reduced himmerely to proper nouns and pronouns, and as a result the reader tends to prefer the villains, who are more colourful, and that leads to dissappointment come the finale (which is a tad rushed), in which, of course, the heroes unfailingly win. <br />Still, Bad Company is light and easy reading, and it's relatively easy to overlook that almost everything within has been lifted from various other Jack Higgins books. This is about as close to literature as a TV guide, but, then, it doesn't intend to be.	2003-08-25
1002496:US	40684262	R3VAJ1U520XLG5	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Entertaining, easy, different	Troy Phelan is America's tenth wealthiest man - a self-made multi-billionaire and head of a huge corporation. However, his family life has not been half as sucessful as his financial one; he has three three failed marriages behind him, and six children to whom he is apathetic to. They scrounge from him and throw their money down the drain. Many of them are in debt, and one is even being investigated by the IRS. However, Troy Phelan is also reclusive, eccentric, old, infirm and lonely. One morning, after he holds a confereence for his family members to witness the signing of his will, he leaps to his death from the 15th floor of his office building. His family circle vulture-like around the lawyers, having smelled the money. <br />However, when Troy's last will and testament is finally revealed, it brings with it a shocking secret that will ensnare all his family, a missionary who has foresaken earthly possessions to work with Indians inthe Brazillian rainforest, and Nate O'Reilly, a burnt-out lawyer fresh out of his fourth stay in rehab as he treks into the jungle in search of Phelan's lost heir. <br />It's hard to classify this book...it's certainly not a &quot;thriller&quot;, nor is it really a &quot;crime&quot; novel. More, it's just a book concerning certain themes, all cloaked under humanity and a good plot. Those themes involve many things: wealth, faith, material possession, morality, human strength and human weakness and, finally, greed. It's written in Grisham's usual almost ludicrously easy-to-digest prose, which makes it a quick, enjoyable, none-too-taxing read, with some nice surprises and plenty of legal wrangling along the way.<br />The change of scene from Grisham's normal Southern settings to the rainforest of Brazil is admirable and refreshing, and Grisham describes it well. Certainly, I'd now quite like to visist these out-of-the-way places he describes, maybe even live a similar lifestyle, for a little while, to some of the people in the book... He makes it all sound very satisfying. He also fascinatingly depicts aspects of the lives of native Brazillian Indians who live off the land and the forest, and any ready is bound to enjoy this [probably] new experience. <br />The Testament is nothing out of this world as far as great books go. I'd not leap to reccomend it, but it's satisfying and enjoyable and endearingly different.	2003-08-22
1002705:US	40684262	R983J7XVSKUCC	0743234693	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	5	1	1	N	N	More great work from Iles	It has been a long time indeed since I last remained awake late into the night to finish a book, since the need for sleep paled in the face of desire to read. Normally, I don';t have the time or urgent inclination. But, with The Footprints of God I found myself welcoming in the small hours and them quickly falling past. This is another terrific thriller from Iles, who has quickly stationed himself as the most versatile thriller writer around. <br />For years, the Holy Grail of Artificial Intelligence has been to devise a computer with the capability to think like a human. And it seems as if that day might finally have arrived. <br />David Tennant is a frightened man indeed. He is the Doctor assigned by the President to be in charge of ethical considerations surrounding Project Trinity, a top secret research programme which, if it sucees in its aims, will quickly revolutionise the world. However, there are worrying things going on in the depths of Trinity, things that have implications far beyond David and his colleagues' increasing string of health problems. Then, the leading scientist is found dead in his office, but though David is certain it is murder, the authorities in charge designate a death of natural causes. Soon, the secuirity agents and heads of Project Trinity turn on David. He knows too much, is threatening to go public, tell the President all, and they want him dead. So he goes on the run. <br />Project Trinity, though, remains on course, but with the men in charge slowly turning on each other, when it reaches completion it could mean a greater danger than any of them have ever known before. <br />Along with Mortal Fear, The Footprints of God is sure to become Iles' crowning achievement. It is a brilliant and compelling marriage of technology, philosophy, humanity and thrills. Each aspect is balanced so well with every other, and as a result the novel feels rounded and satisfying. Iles has a style of writing that, while not really occupying the highestplateaus of beauty, is easy to read, keeps you turning those pages and wanting just that little bit more. It is nothing if not a \\"pageturner\\". <br />There is science here, but Iles does an excellent job of putting things in easy enough to understand terms and not bogging the story down with detail. Certainly, Michael Crichton fans in particular will find a great great deal to admire here. <br />A few may find some of the concepts a little hard to swallow, but when all is said and done, what do we really know about real scientific progress in such areas as this? The notion of Trinity could be all-too near and plausible, for all that we know. Come to this book with an open mind, even only slightly, and you are sure to be entertained very highly by this intelligent, interesting and very thrilling thriller.	2003-08-22
1002828:US	40684262	R10TSCJIU54AOF	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Absolutely amazing thriller - top of any list	Harper Cole, a man with some pretty dark secrets, is a systems operator for an international on-line programme known as EROS, a service that caters for the erotic sexual appetities - be they light or of a slightly darker taste - of a large number of highly-paying clients. <br />Soon, Harper's life - and the lives of those closest to him - will be thrown into immense danger, because there is a killer at work on EROS, a twisted and terrifying serial murderer using the network to find his way into the lives and fantasies of his female victims. All of a sudden, Harper finds himself a possible suspect in the eyes of the FBI, and in an attempt both to prove his innocence and to stop a vicious killer from continuing his morbid harvest, Harper goes into EROS himself, posing as a woman he once had an affair with, in order to try and trap the killer into revealing himself.<br />However, it quickly becomes apparent that everyone has underestimated this brutally intelligent killer, able to detect their every move and remain constantly one step ahead...<br />Mortal Fear is surely going to be Iles' crowning achievement. Most serial killer novels are pretty standard fare, but this is not only far better than almost any other I have read, it almost transends its genre, such is the writing quality and the relentless intelligence that powers the plot and movement of the prose. The brutality of the killer (and his bizarre, if startlingly original, motives) is balanced with some wonderful philosophical examinations of humans and humanity, which give you the impression that Iles really KNOWS people, rather like Stephen King, and a slightly academic, educated feel to it all makes this so much more than just a pop-thriller, but something far greater.<br />Iles is graced with a gift for creating incredibly strong lead male characters that, while often shaded, have the distinct feel that they could easily have been plucked form any street in any town the world over. Harper Cole is such a creation: real, full, and likeable. His conflicts, secrets, problems, are all fascianting andf the reader grows to care quite deepy about their having a sucessful resolution. <br />The plot is incredibly strong, and Iles really does bring something special to the whole notion of a killer using the internet to find his victims. There are some twists that really do shock, events that are unpredictable and come out of the blue, which is very very rare, some deaths that really do make you gasp, and even perhaps have qualms about whether you actually want to continue. But, of course you continue, because, while you cared about the characters, now you care even more that they catch the killer abd, quite frankly, kill him very painfully yet thoroughly. The killer himself is genuinely scary, which again is very rare. His seeming omniscience and intelligence will maybe even strike hints of fear into you as you read. In all truth, \\"Brahama\\", as he comes to be known, is probably more than a match for Hannibal Lecter, and I have never said that before. <br />This is the best thriller i have read in ages. Its humanity married with cruelty make it horridly compelling, and the shadows of Eastern mythology that brood behind everything give it that extra special edge. Be sure to read this book. It is fantastic. I cannot understand why people did not rave and shout from the rooftops about this book for years after its publication because, by god, it certainly deserves that.	2003-08-22
1002837:US	40684262	R3UHKYXH3MBDWG	0553259768	582834936	Face of Trespass,the	Books	5	42	43	N	N	exquisite stuff from Rendell	Two years ago Gray Lanceton was a promising writer with one successful novel under his belt. But, then he met Drusilla, a bored, rich, unstable yet magnetic young woman, and his life was changed forever. <br />Now he lives in quiet exile in a small messy cottage, with only the surrounding trees and his own obsessive destroying thoughts for company. Their affair is now over, and he hopes that maybe now he can be free. But, unbeknownst to Gray, tragedy lurks still above him, the shadow of Drusilla and her violent desires will soon threaten to rob him of any of that freedom he thought he had clawed back...<br />This short book is a little piece of genius. It is a great great shame that many of these early novels of hers remain out of print, because they really are excellent. This one in particular is a wonderful yet chilling character study, which is what several of them tend to be, their lengths being what they are. While her later books are longer and can probe the psychological depths of many characters with greater ease, these early short gems tend to focus their intense insight on one major character, and she manages with effortless ease to present a completely whole, completely real, somewhat disturbing, portrait of a single fascinating character, in this case the reclusive, eerily human writer Graham Lanceton, who is actually quite likeable, which is rare for Rendell. It is a tale of desire, violence, freedom and of obsession, with each element explored wonderfully within a riveting plot. <br />She has a wonderfully polished writing style, and creates a tale that is both claustrophobic and atmospheric. All the aspects of the plot click together wonderfully. No event is superfluous, every occurrence has its purpose and its effect, which creates a wonderful whole and round effect to the book. Book with stories that weave and interlock so well are a joy, they are more fulfilling and the effect makes the writer seem darn clever, and this is a prime. <br />The Face of Trespass is dark, compelling, and psychologically brilliant. The final cataclysmic events are shocking and yet sensible. In fiction, this is becoming very rare.	2003-08-22
1002996:US	40684262	R1CUL8MBANK8GC	044022392X	279194308	The Keys to the Street	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A joy to read. Yet another excellent book	This novel is rather like a symbolic microcosm of a solar system. That is the only way I can find to describe it. All that characters' lives go around in their own orbit, but occasionally they meet, those orbits cross, and each is influenced by this meeting in some way, be it good or bad, and they carry on once more, their paths forever altered slightly, or maybe not so slightly. Because this is Rendell's world, and in Rendell's world those planets don't always just cross, they collide. <br />The main plot, I suppose, centres on Mary Jago, a young woman living in London. Mary has donated her own bone marrow to save the lie of a stranger. This generous act of kindness lead directly to the break-up of her relationship with the despiseable Alistair, and she moves out, taking up residence in a house on the edge of Regent's Park, looking after it while the owners are on holiday. However, soon, the man whose live she has saved will alter her own life irrevocably for ever.<br />Inhabiting Regent's Park (which, I suppose, would be the Sun of the earlier analogy) are the dropouts, the street-people, forgotten and ignored by society, until a vicious killer starts targeting them, leaving their bodies impaled upon the railings that border the park. Rendell creates several of these misfits, the most important one, I suppose, being Roman, a man who took to the streets, leaving behind his past and possessions, when his life was shattered upon the deaths of his wife and young children in a horrific accident. He is particularly interesting. <br />Then there is Bean, a retired butler-turned-dog-walker who roams the park every day exercising his canine clients, who despises the tramps who take refuge there. And then, most sinister of all, there is Hob, a hopeless drug addict living nearby in a rented flat, who is prepared to carry out acts of varying violence in return for very welcome payment...<br />I've never read a novel quite like this before, and I doubt that I will again. It isflawless in every way. A book so astoundingly good that I have now read it three times (remarkable, considering that I am rarely even prepared to set time by to re-read a book even once). But, then, almost all Rendell's books have this effect upon me. She has a prose style like no other writer today. It is entirely without emotions, pretension, or anything else, and yet it is powerful and gripping. She doesn't fill her books with unnecessary description - but when she does do descriptions, they are like gems thrown in a buskers case - instead creating a palpable sense of atmosphere and soon-to-be-destroyed normality. She has a brilliant sense of place, making London d seem claustrophobic and terrifying, and I am almost sure that If I suddenly found myself in Regent's Park I would quicken my step distinctly through irrational and superfluous fear entirely of Rendell's creating.<br />The characters she creates are drawn brilliantly, and are absolutely fascinating, every single one of them, so much so that I would gladly carry on reading about them if this book were even more than thrice its length. I want to know everything about them. The way they interact, each story occasionally connecting with one another, is also fascinating, and Rendell manages to examine brilliantly notions about effects and consequences. <br />\\"The Keys to the Street\\" (a title of genius!) is excellent. The whole thing sparkles with darkness, and holds a subtle originality that, along with other aspects, demonstrate clearly why Ruth Rendell is to be treasured.	2003-08-22
1003088:US	40684262	R2S9UEKZDNFNP9	044022392X	279194308	The Keys to the Street	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A joy to read. Yet another excellent book	This novel is rather like a symbolic microcosm of a solar system. That is the only way I can find to describe it. All that characters' lives go around in their own orbit, but occasionally they meet, those orbits cross, and each is influenced by this meeting in some way, be it good or bad, and they carry on once more, their paths forever altered slightly, or maybe not so slightly. Because this is Rendell's world, and in Rendell's world those planets don't always just cross, they collide.<br />The main plot, I suppose, centres on Mary Jago, a young woman living in London. Mary has donated her own bone marrow to save the lie of a stranger. This generous act of kindness lead directly to the break-up of her relationship with the despiseable Alistair, and she moves out, taking up residence in a house on the edge of Regent's Park, looking after it while the owners are on holiday. However, soon, the man whose live she has saved will alter her own life irrevocably for ever.<br />Inhabiting Regent's Park (which, I suppose, would be the Sun of the earlier analogy) are the dropouts, the street-people, forgotten and ignored by society, until a vicious killer starts targeting them, leaving their bodies impaled upon the railings that border the park. Rendell creates several of these misfits, the most important one, I suppose, being Roman, a man who took to the streets, leaving behind his past and possessions, when his life was shattered upon the deaths of his wife and young children in a horrific accident. He is particularly interesting.<br />Then there is Bean, a retired butler-turned-dog-walker who roams the park every day exercising his canine clients, who despises the tramps who take refuge there. And then, most sinister of all, there is Hob, a hopeless drug addict living nearby in a rented flat, who is prepared to carry out acts of varying violence in return for very welcome payment...<br />I've never read a novel quite like this before, and I doubt that I will again. It is flawless in every way. A book so astoundingly good that I have now read it three times (remarkable, considering that I am rarely even prepared to set time by to re-read a book even once). But, then, almost all Rendell's books have this effect upon me. She has a prose style like no other writer today. It is entirely without emotions, pretension, or anything else, and yet it is powerful and gripping. She doesn't fill her books with unnecessary description - but when she does do descriptions, they are like gems thrown in a buskers case - instead creating a palpable sense of atmosphere and soon-to-be-destroyed normality. She has a brilliant sense of place, making London d seem claustrophobic and terrifying, and I am almost sure that If I suddenly found myself in Regent's Park I would quicken my step distinctly through irrational and superfluous fear entirely of Rendell's creating.<br />The characters she creates are drawn brilliantly, and are absolutely fascinating, every single one of them, so much so that I would gladly carry on reading about them if this book were even more than thrice its length. I want to know everything about them. The way they interact, each story occasionally connecting with one another, is also fascinating, and Rendell manages to examine brilliantly notions about effects and consequences.<br />\\"The Keys to the Street\\" (a title of genius!) is excellent. The whole thing sparkles with darkness, and holds a subtle originality that, along with other aspects, demonstrate clearly why Ruth Rendell is to be treasured.flawless in every way. A book so astoundingly good that I have now read it three times (remarkable, considering that I am rarely even prepared to set time by to re-read a book even once). But, then, almost all Rendell's books have this effect upon me. She has a prose style like no other writer today. It is entirely without emotions, pretension, or anything else, and yet it is powerful and gripping. She doesn't fill her books with unnecessary description - but when she does do descriptions, they are like gems thrown in a buskers case - instead creating a palpable sense of atmosphere and soon-to-be-destroyed normality. She has a brilliant sense of place, making London d seem claustrophobic and terrifying, and I am almost sure that If I suddenly found myself in Regent's Park I would quicken my step distinctly through irrational and superfluous fear entirely of Rendell's creating.<br />The characters she creates are drawn brilliantly, and are absolutely fascinating, every single one of them, so much so that I would gladly carry on reading about them if this book were even more than thrice its length. I want to know everything about them. The way they interact, each story occasionally connecting with one another, is also fascinating, and Rendell manages to examine brilliantly notions about effects and consequences. <br />\\"The Keys to the Street\\" (a title of genius!) is excellent. The whole thing sparkles with darkness, and holds a subtle originality that, along with other aspects, demonstrate clearly why Ruth Rendell is to be treasured.	2003-08-22
1003243:US	40684262	R3D25WB5PT34HF	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Entertaining, easy, different	Troy Phelan is America's tenth wealthiest man - a self-made multi-billionaire and head of a huge corporation. However, his family life has not been half as sucessful as his financial one; he has three three failed marriages behind him, and six children to whom he is apathetic to. They scrounge from him and throw their money down the drain. Many of them are in debt, and one is even being investigated by the IRS. However, Troy Phelan is also reclusive, eccentric, old, infirm and lonely. One morning, after he holds a confereence for his family members to witness the signing of his will, he leaps to his death from the 15th floor of his office building. His family circle vulture-like around the lawyers, having smelled the money. <br />However, when Troy's last will and testament is finally revealed, it brings with it a shocking secret that will ensnare all his family, a missionary who has foresaken earthly possessions to work with Indians inthe Brazillian rainforest, and Nate O'Reilly, a burnt-out lawyer fresh out of his fourth stay in rehab as he treks into the jungle in search of Phelan's lost heir. <br />It's hard to classify this book...it's certainly not a &quot;thriller&quot;, nor is it really a &quot;crime&quot; novel. More, it's just a book concerning certain themes, all cloaked under humanity and a good plot. Those themes involve many things: wealth, faith, material possession, morality, human strength and human weakness and, finally, greed. It's written in Grisham's usual almost ludicrously easy-to-digest prose, which makes it a quick, enjoyable, none-too-taxing read, with some nice surprises and plenty of legal wrangling along the way.<br />The change of scene from Grisham's normal Southern settings to the rainforest of Brazil is admirable and refreshing, and Grisham describes it well. Certainly, I'd now quite like to visist these out-of-the-way places he describes, maybe even live a similar lifestyle, for a little while, to some of the people in the book... He makes it all sound very satisfying. He also fascinatingly depicts aspects of the lives of native Brazillian Indians who live off the land and the forest, and any ready is bound to enjoy this [probably] new experience. <br />The Testament is nothing out of this world as far as great books go. I'd not leap to reccomend it, but it's satisfying and enjoyable and endearingly different.	2003-08-22
1003402:US	40684262	R3CAALVSZXGTVQ	0553571737	752077276	Under the Beetle's Cellar	Books	5	0	0	N	N	very good, effective thriller	Walter Demming - bus driver and Vietnam vet - and eleven schoolkids have been incarcerated in an underground hole for forty six days. They are the hostages of a biazarre fundamentalist cult, kidnapped at gunpoint whilst driving along the road to school. The leader of the cult - who call themselves the Hearth Jezreelites - is the charismatic Samuel Mordecai, the terrifying self-proclaimed Prophet, and every day the captives must endure his garbled religious sermons and rants on the evils of modern life. He has taken them for a very specific and ominous reason, in preparation for the coming Apocalypse, which he foretells will arrive in just five days time.<br />After 46 days, the negotiations have reached a dead-lock. Mordecai will not even listen, let alone concede anything, and he threatens to kill the hostages if even one person steps onto Jezreeelite soil. It is now that crime reporter Molly Cates enters the scenario. She interviewed Mordecai once before and did not like the experience at all. Now, if she can possibly unearth more about Mordecai's past that the FBI can use as a lever in the negotiations, she may well be their last remaining hope. But she does have just five days time...<br />This is an excellent thriller. There's nothing particularly wonderful about Willis Walker's prose-style - it tends towards the pedestrian, the very normal; it certainly doesn't sing - or anything riveting about protagonist Molly Cates - she is real and human, but there isn't a great deal save from her humanity and stubbornness to make her stand out from many other gutsy female protagonists - but this is still one terrific thriller, which definitely deserves to be more widely read. It's intelligent and though-provoking (but not too much) and tackles well issues of religion and faith and religious mania, as well as having some snappy dialogue and a cracker of a plot. It marries three elements absolutely brilliantly: cults, hostage negotiating, and good old investigating. The Prophet Samuel Mordecai is a particularly delicious villain, chilling and, of course, mad, as well as having a brilliant name. Mordecai. Mordecai. My, i could just roll that one about on my tongue for ages. Isn't it just great?<br />Anyway...Under the Beetle's Cellar is a tense, suspenseful thriller with a dramatic and moving conclusion that does not disappoint. In terms of plot, you'll notice that this book is strikingly similar to Jeffery Deaver's brilliant A Maiden's Grave, (group of children of a bus kidnapped and held hostage), which was published in the same year. But, this book still retains some very original, different elements which make it another must-read thriller.	2003-08-22
1003469:US	40684262	R3HZ7MGCEBL4GI	0553571737	752077276	Under the Beetle's Cellar	Books	5	2	2	N	N	very good, effective thriller	Walter Demming - bus driver and Vietnam vet - and eleven schoolkids have been incarcerated in an underground hole for forty six days. They are the hostages of a biazarre fundamentalist cult, kidnapped at gunpoint whilst driving along the road to school. The leader of the cult - who call themselves the Hearth Jezreelites - is the charismatic Samuel Mordecai, the terrifying self-proclaimed Prophet, and every day the captives must endure his garbled religious sermons and rants on the evils of modern life. He has taken them for a very specific and ominous reason, in preparation for the coming Apocalypse, which he foretells will arrive in just five days time.<br />After 46 days, the negotiations have reached a dead-lock. Mordecai will not even listen, let alone concede anything, and he threatens to kill the hostages if even one person steps onto Jezreeelite soil. It is now that crime reporter Molly Cates enters the scenario. She interviewed Mordecai once before and did not like the experience at all. Now, if she can possibly unearth more about Mordecai's past that the FBI can use as a lever in the negotiations, she may well be their last remaining hope. But she does have just five days time...<br />This is an excellent thriller. There's nothing particularly wonderful about Willis Walker's prose-style - it tends towards the pedestrian, the very normal; it certainly doesn't sing - or anything riveting about protagonist Molly Cates - she is real and human, but there isn't a great deal save from her humanity and stubbornness to make her stand out from many other gutsy female protagonists - but this is still one terrific thriller, which definitely deserves to be more widely read. It's intelligent and though-provoking (but not too much) and tackles well issues of religion and faith and religious mania, as well as having some snappy dialogue and a cracker of a plot. It marries three elements absolutely brilliantly: cults, hostage negotiating, and good old investigating. The Prophet Samuel Mordecai is a particularly delicious villain, chilling and, of course, mad, as well as having a brilliant name. Mordecai. Mordecai. My, i could just roll that one about on my tongue for ages. Isn't it just great?<br />Anyway...Under the Beetle's Cellar is a tense, suspenseful thriller with a dramatic and moving conclusion that does not disappoint. In terms of plot, you'll notice that this book is strikingly similar to Jeffery Deaver's brilliant A Maiden's Grave, (group of children of a bus kidnapped and held hostage), which was published in the same year. But, this book still retains some very original, different elements which make it another must-read thriller.	2003-08-22
1016116:US	40684262	R24OSVF9MC31LG	0671029096	448252564	Surface Tension	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It does not get better than this	It is generally possible to judge how much I liked a book by noting the number of times I close it, finger marking my page, and simply stare at the cover in awe. This isn't just to marvel at it in wonder, but to delay that inevitable moment when I will sadly have to put it down, finished. With this book, I did that a LOT. <br />In the long hot summer of 1976, six friends spend the long days relaxing lazily on the lawns of Grays Orchard, a beautiful country house, unworried about the world outside their little commune. But then their idyll is shattered by a brutal murder, and none of their lives will ever be the same again. <br />25 years later, artist Gus Ridley still lives at Grays Orchard with his wife Carol, who knows next to nothing about the cathartic event that ripped the group asunder. That is, until Jenny arrives. Jenny is the daughter of Gus's half sister Harriet, who now lives in Australia, and she wants Gus to tell her about the events which led up to her father's murder. When she doesn't get satisfactory answers, Jenny storms off, vowing to seek out other members of the group, including Raymond, Gus's one-time best friend, who now is the leader of a sinister cult. But Jenny's visit has changed Gus, and Carol can no longer stand to live in the shadow of the secrets Gus is obviously keeping from her. So, she, too, goes in search of answers. It's a search that will lead her into terrifying danger, and towards revelations both shocking and horrifying, that she will wish she never uncovered...<br />Perfect. If I had to pick one word to describe this book, that would be it. I was impressed enough with her last book, \\"Improvising Carla\\", but if I thought that was good, I was in for a real treat with this one. The writing is excellent, the characters superb once again, and the settings (ranging from Cornwall to Spain) are brilliantly realistic. The plot has a subtle Vine-like grip, which doesn't let go right until the conclusion, which is shock piled upon emotional shock. It's a book that is at times moving and at times terrifying, and it challenges our perceptions about life and the people that we meet, and shows us that sometimes the truth is best left unknown. As a mystery novel, I have read few better, and as a psychological thriller, it is peak of the art. There are surprising twists throughout the entire book, and the final solution is completely unexpected. <br />This book isn't available in the US, but don't let that stop you. Get it. Get it now. Get it any way you can, any where you can, at any cost. It's completely worth it. On a scale of 1 to five, an approximation of this book's quality is least 7. This is the best book I have read in many, many months.	2003-08-10
1020530:US	40684262	R2I6OMCVZ4SAE4	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent mystery	After what I consider to be the brilliant panoramic psychological masterpiece that was A Traitor To Memory, Elizabeth George here shifts the focus back to a more traditional story of crime and more onto her main characters once more, in a book that is sure to please all her fans immensely, despite their opinion of her last book.<br />Here, she takes the story to the Channel Island of Gurnsey, an enclosed community very much with its own individual identity, which she evokes very well indeed. One morning, Guy Brouard, millionaire and generous benefactor of many projects on the island, is killed on the beach after his morning swim, and his death will send disastrous ripples through not only his own fractured family, but the fragile community too.<br />A plethora of evidence is discovered that clearly implicates someone in the China, one China River, an American staying on the island for a few days after couriering a package for Guy over from the USA., and she is swiftly arrested. Desperate to prove his sisters innocence, and having found no aid at the American embassy, Cherokee River (their mother was a hippie, of course) rushes to England to enlist the help of the only person he can think of: Deborah St James, Chinas old friend from youth. Maybe there is something she can do, perhaps? However, when even a word from friend in the Metropolitan Police Thomas Lynley has no influence upon the Gurnsey police, Deborah (with Cherokee and husband Simon in tow) hurries to the island to help save her friend, and to atone for past failings. <br />Fans of Elizabeth George will love this, If they dont mind that Deborah and Simon take the lead rather than the usual partnership of Lynley and Havers (if you are at all reasonable, you shouldn't). Certainly I found it refreshing and rather nice that shes brought these two characters out of the shadows a little more and given their relationship an almost incredible amount of depth all in a single book. George is adept at creating realistic and engrossing relationships between her main characters. <br />But, then, character has always been Georges strong point. There are very few writers today who can create so many completely rounded and whole and human characters, make them all equally interesting and give them all equal shrift and importance within a single novel. <br />And its not as if she skimps on plot here, either. Its developed, multi-stranded, paced very well indeed, has a very good solution and is wholly satisfying. She tells her story with beautiful and incredibly rich prose, and in my mind is probably the finest American exponent of this type of traditional British mystery (even if she doesnt always get it 100% right, but that doesnt matter.) Existing fans will love this book and may think it her strongest in a while, and I would also encourage anyone whose never read her before and likes this kind of book to begin with A Place Of Hiding as soon as possible.	2003-08-06
1020980:US	40684262	R2NT8VBDUOB52A	0345345207	370182329	Wolf to the Slaughter (Chief Inspector Wexford Mysteries)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Absolutely stunning	Anita Margolis, young, beautiful, carefree, has vanished into thin air. She left her home to attend a party one wet evening, but has not been seen since. She is reported missing soon after by her brother, whom she shared a flat with, the acclaimed but eccentric artist Rupert Margolis. Inspector Burden quickly forms an impression of a wanton young girl simply gone off somewhere with a boyfriend having neglected to let anyone know. After all, she was that sort of woman, in Burden's opinion. However, Wexford has his doubts, and those doubts will soon be confirmed, and they will soon find themselves enmeshed in a case that will throw every assumption they make into doubt. <br />This is an early Wexford book, and it is brilliant. A simple notion, but true. One of the best of the entire series, actually, the fact of its quality equally matches that of the novels she is still producing and marks her out clearly as possibly the most reliable and captivating novelist of her generation, such is her constant unfailing ability. She writes absolutely brilliantly, with an emotional detachedness that makes it so much more powerful when she decides that now is the time to probe in the darkness of a particular characters mind and motivations. And those characters are unendingly fascinating, completely human yet with a shadowy darkness to them, and flawlessly depicted.<br />But it is not just her characters that mark her books out as special. Setting and story meld in equally with character in the most successful books to create a compelling whole, and Rendell accomplishes this with ease. The fictional Kingsmarkham is almost as tangible and atmospheric as the London she uses as the setting for some of her other non-Wexford novels. The reader feels they could easily be supplanted into the story, onto the streets of this fictional town, and yet already know its environs intimately. <br />And then, of course, the story too is near-perfect. It is dark, it is clever, it is affecting, it is psychologically acute, it is realistic (despite the false idea that these kind of traditional procedural novels tend not to be), it is engrossing, as well as being a plethora of other laudable adjectives as well. It shifts and moves and surprises and has excellent pace, carrying the reader through on a breathless ride - secured in by the mesmeric hand-at-your-throat grip of the prose - until a tension-filled conclusion, which leaves more than one character irredeemably altered for life. <br />Wolf to the Slaughter is simply yet another excellent novel from the woman who is, in my mind, the best writer in the world today. And that is all there is to it.	2003-08-06
1049383:US	40684262	R35IDEYWJ6G2DO	0743233468	912119362	Bare Bones: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Satisfactory, but not as good as some others in the series	The remains of a new-born baby are discovered in a wood stove. Bones are discovered in two plastic bags in a wood, and further investigation finds more bones in a farmhouse nearby. A small plane crashes on a North Carolina hillside and bursts into flames. A mysterious black substance is found on the bodies of the pilot and passenger and the burnt-out interior. These events bring forensic anthropologist Tempe Brennan into a whirlpool of mystery that will eventually end with her taking a life.<br />It's good. It's not great. It's certainly not Fatal Voyage or Death du Jour, but is more like the quality of Deadly Decisions. Tempe remains the wonderfully human character that she always has been, and there are some magical moments between her and daughter Katie that are guaranteed to please readers, as well as a very welcome return from Andrew Ryan, who, even though fictional, simply sizzles on the page. However, aside from that, there isn't a great deal in the way of further character development, even though it is interesting to see a novel with Tempe firmly entrenched in the city of Charlotte for the first time in the series. And it's a series that, what with all the possible locations and directions it can take, certainly remains fresh and promises to do so for quite a while yet. <br />Reichs' dialogue, as always, is brilliantly snappy, acute, and amusing, even if there is a little much of it, and there's plenty of great detail to make this an incredibly good and authentic thriller on the forensics front. Reichs' writing style is quirky and somewhat eccentric, but only because she's such a wonderful first-person writer, really getting into the head of her main character (maybe because, I suspect, there is a great deal of the writer herself supplanted into the protagonist) and making the writing seem curiously human. However, Bare Bones (as well as being a little too short to be fully developed) ultimately suffers from something that a couple of her books have done: She gets bogged down in bones. Or, rather, the reader does. There are rather too many sets of bones and crimes and villains, and as a result it's very easy for the reader to get them all muddled in their mind. There are too many criminals mixed up in the goings on, and to be honest by the end it's a job to keep up with who killed which person where and how and why they did it. But, with a little careful checking of your facts, this can still remain a mostly satisfying and hugely suspenseful pageturner of a thriller.<br />To be honest, the quality of Reichs' novels seems to be entirely subjective...every year, each new book runs the entire gamut of reader opinion, with some thinking it her best, others her worst, and everything else in between. This book will probably get a very similar reaction, so the most sensible thing to do is to try it out for yourself and see.	2003-07-14
1049792:US	40684262	R2GE3K7Z4D5BQE	0316603287	734205902	The Lake House	Books	3	2	2	N	N	In short, only try this if you liked When the Wind Blows	Before I really begin, let me just highlight something: When the Wind Blows was first published in 1998. This book, its sequel, in 2003. In the intervening years, James Patterson has published 11 (yes, that's right, 11) books. Occasionally this shows, as with here. <br />As I say, this is a sequel to When the Wind Blows, which must of course be read first, in which veterinarian Frannie O'Neill and FBI agent Kit Brennan rescued six amazing winged (yes, winged) children from a horrendous human testing laboratory dubbed \\"The School\\" and exposed its activities to the world. The Lake House begins shortly after those events, and, at first, everything appears fine. The devastating genetic experiments have ceased, the inhuman tortures stopped. Or so everyone thinks. But, unbeknownst to everyone, there is another project currently underway, known as Resurrection, run by a Dr Ethan Kane (which, I'm sorry, but I think is a tremendous name for a villain). But Max, the eldest of the children, has learnt of the project's existence, and that puts her and those around her in mortal danger. Through her immense fear for herself and her friends, she says nothing, keeps it a secret. <br />But, Kane knows that she knows. And because of that, she cannot be allowed to remain free. So the vicious hunt to bring the children back to captivity begins anew. <br />If you hated When the Wind Blows, you will hate this. Loathe it, even. No doubt about it. Because it's really just more of the same. If you thought it was ludicrous, silly, childish, pointless, then The Lake House ain't gunna change your mind one bit. However, if you enjoyed the prequel (as I did, but only as an entertaining piece of hokum) then there's a definite chance you may like this too. It's fun, it's enjoyable for the most part, the pages fly by as usual and you finish it very quickly (although, I have come to realise that this means most of his books are very forgettable because of this pace. Indeed, I can hardly remember a single detail of The Jester, which I read but a few months ago.) Mainly, I liked the experience, it's imaginative, amusing, and entirely innocuous. <br />However, it has big flaws. Thin characters, needless emotional garbage that doesn't fit and would make even Danielle Steele cringe (he should save this lovey stuff for his occasional romance novels) and, finally, a conclusion that leaves the reader unsatisfied and with a sense of anti-climax. Everything just seems to fade away. Things aren't actually explained. Certainly, almost nothing is: Project Resurrection, how it works, what it's really for, and many other things. I still have big questions I want answered. <br />So, really, although I enjoyed it myself, I can't really recommend it, except to anyone who liked When the Wind Blows, or anyone who is just incredibly liberal with their choice of reading matter and is open to anything. This is a James Patterson novel, so of course it will soar from the shelves, but I sense that there are going to be some disappointed fans out there.	2003-07-14
1087898:US	40684262	R1PG1D1CQ5CS1M	1841953830	456989408	The Cutting Room	Books	4	0	2	N	N	It's absolutely great, but...	This book is absolutely great. If you want a book with a wonderful writing style, a BRILLIANT central character, and underlying gothic-ism which pervades the whole thing, and a walk on the dark side of Glasgow, then The Cutting Room is definitely or you. <br />It's all quite easy to sum up. Indeed, it is done admirably by one of its own characters: \\"Rilke here is an auctioneer. He came across some horrible pictures snuff photographs they look like, in some dead guy's attic. Thing is, he also across your card and he wondered if you might be able to tell him something about the man\\"...<br />That is a very fair summary, actually. It's about Rilke's quest to uncover more information about some suspect photographs and the man who owned them. As a plot, it's quite good, but nothing special. What IS special is Welsh's writing style. However, the plot starts out incredibly promisingly, but evaporates about 100 pages in. the first 100 pages are cracking stuff, but then everything about the photos seems to be forgotten, as our protagonist stumbles around Glasgow having gay sexual encounters and making a general fool of himself. The Rilke's intentions seem all but forgotten until the final 50 pages, which bring the plot back in again, and concludes the book absolutely BRILLIANTLY. I loved the resolution to this book, absolutely loved it. It's brief but very fulfilling. <br />Overall, this is certainly a commendable debut. The writing is of a very high-class indeed, the characters are very good, especially the marvellous Rilke. I enojoyed reading this book a great deal, but it would have been better if the plot wasn't forgotten for half of the time. For that i feel i must deduct a star, but it is a close-run thing. The great writing, grimy atmosphere and wonderful noir and gothic-ness of it are all to be treasured. I'm very much looking forward to her next book.	2003-06-15
1093916:US	40684262	RCNXBU751B8D7	0345458834	894484308	Self-Defense (Alex Delaware)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	My favourite Delware book so far	I loved this book. Previously, &quot;Bad Love&quot; And &quot;Private Eyes&quot; had been favourites, but now this one in his great series has usurped both absolutely. These few books after &quot;Private Eyes&quot; seem to have achieved a greater maturity than some of his earlier ones, and it benefits them very well, lifting from five star great reads to ive start great books. He is [occasionally] able to create characters who seem so real and normal but have such great psychological depth that they are absolutely fantastic. In any other novel they might be dull, but because of Kellerman's probing and analytical style that become 3D and interesting. <br />The plot here is basically summarised thus: <br />Alex Delware is treating Lucy Lowell, having been referred to him by his friend Ilio Sturgis, a police Detective. Lucy was a juror in the trial of a vicious serial killer, and helped to put him away. Now, the horrid details of his killings are disturbing her, coming back to haunt her. <br />But, then, something far more sinister emerges during her therapy...She has been having a disturbing recurring dream - which Alex thinks is likely to have been stimulated by memories awoken by events of the trial - about a young girl, alone in the woods, a secret witness to three men disposing of the body of a young woman...<br />It's a cracking plot, it really is. Kellerman builds it up so that it's all very satisying. It weaves in and out of itself like a complex tapestry. The pace is absolutely perfect, and the reader is compelled to keep returning eagerly to the book after having put it down.<br />Delware is a good central character, and is keep nicely fresh because of the continuous movement of his personal relationship with girlriend Robin (soon, though, more than this will be required to stop him from going stale in a few books time, but, for now, he's quite quite safe). <br />I'd reccomend this to every lover of thrillers and crime/mystery novels. It's the best of the series so far, which means that it is absolutely excellent.	2003-06-10
1104116:US	40684262	R2PR6GI68NZ42T	0399148655	654710059	The Delicate Storm	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent crime writing	I must confess, I wasn't quite so crazy about Giles Blunt's debut, Forty Words For Sorrow, as others were, even though it was certainly very good. However, now, after reading The Delicate Storm I'm quite tempted to revisit his first novel and be prepared to reassess my opinions, because The Delicate Storm is, quite simply, excellent.<br />It begins when a human arm is discovered on an unseasonably warm day in some woods near the town of Algonquin Bay. The search for other human body parts leads investigators John Cardinal and Lisa Delorme to a remote hunter's cabin that is clearly the scene of the crime, and which holds some useful information. The deceased is soon found to have been an American citizen, and so the Mounties are brought in to assist. But, it is when the Canadian Secret Service also start sniffing around the case that Cardinal comes to uncover something far deeper and darker. <br />Then, a few days later, a young doctor goes missing, and the glittering woods relinquish a second dead body. <br />Blunt paces his novel absolutely perfectly. It's not too slow, but nor is it so fast that, come the end, the book feels like sand having slipped through a net. He has also struck a perfect equilibrium between character and plot, giving the book power from both corners, and a nicely rounded feel. The characters are excellent, especially Cardinal and Delorme, who are fascinating (both when working together and apart), and, I am sure, capable of sustaining this series for many books to come. The plot itself is great (although possibly discomforting for those who don't like to confront the possibility of a \\"perfect\\" crime), and the plotting is slick, smooth and assured, all stemming from Blunt's excellent narrative control. He also examines, interestingly and convincingly, the past and present Canadian political scene.   <br />However, possibly best of all is the setting, which the author describes brilliantly, giving the book a sharp, edgy and entirely chilly atmosphere that broods over the whole novel like some impetuous deity. The landscape creaks and shimmers under the ice and takes on a forbidding life of its own in a way which few writers can really create. <br />Overall, I'd recommend this book to everyone who likes a great crime novel, because there is no way you'll be disappointed with this. It's full of interesting characters with interesting lives, great plotting, and an atmosphere that shivers. Giles Blunt is tremendous, and surely the best writer to have emerged from Canada in many a moon. I'm looking forward to the next one already!	2003-06-01
1105279:US	40684262	R2TNB539NZBAKE	0671786040	630454203	Black Dog (Ben Cooper and Diane Fry, Book 1)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	dont be misled by all the great reviews...	....becuase this is not an absolutely fantastic wonderful excellent book, as you might imagine when you read good review upon good review. indeed, just because it has many great reviews doesn't mean its any more of a great book than if it only had one great review... To be honest, i'm probably not getting my point across. Basically, what I'm saying is, this book is worth ive stars, because it is very, very good, but do not expect anything absolutely brilliant and awe-inspiring that concludes with a fanfare and a firework display. Because a plethora of good reviews is very misleading. <br />This is a very good British police procedural (in my mind, it's a sort of cross between Reginald Hill and Peter Robinson, and is what every Elizabeth George novel wants to be), sure to appeal to ANYONE who loves that kind of mystery, because you're unlikely to find many writers able to do it better. Stephen Booth is clearly an exciting new talent. <br />The basic plot goes something like this: There's a missing teenage girl, smart, very attractive. Her body does, eventually, turn up, found by an old man walking his dog. Parents claim she was paragon of virtue, other mutterings say otherwise. Local policeman Ben Cooper, knows village intimately, finds himself thrust into the investigation, up against a seeming wall of secrets and lies and darkness. Add to that the friction caused by the introduction of another officer, Diane Fry, from another division, into the local force, and Cooper finds himself in a very tough case that will effect him personally as well as professionally. <br />It's written excellently. It's intelligent, occasionally humourous, and while the plot is not always flash-bang exciting, the style is easy to read and keeps you turning the pages (indeed, it did so to such an extent that I finished the book in a mere two days). Another remarkable aspect of the book is the atmosphere, and the description of the landscape. The Peak District, where the novel is set, takeson a very dark and sinister shroud, and seems almost to pulse beneath the story. <br />The characters are also good (although not excellent, just good). Especially interesting is Booth's depiction and development of the various relationships and bonds of people within the story. Cooper and Fry are beginning to take on a fascinating relationship (sexual tension almost beginning to champ at the bit). The relationship between the three elderly friends is drawn EXCELLENTLY, and is possibly even one of my favourite things about this novel. Booth exmaination of friendship and loyalty and bonds and how far we will go for our friends is excellent. <br />However, while this book is very good in very many ways, it is by no means perfect. To be honest, at the 400 page point, it began to feel a little drawn out, and only was saved from becoming \\"a little boring\\" by the numerous twists and turns which occur through the entire story. Still, I feel it was a little too long. Also, many things were captured very well, there was something about this book which just makes me think \\"well, the plot itself wasn't all that inspiring\\". There were aspects of it that were, certainly, but the bigger picture could be improved slightly. But, this is a first novel, so I'm sure it will be. <br />So, I reccomend Black Dog to all fans of the Police Procedural and crime genre. I'm certainly looking orward to reading his next book, to see how Stephen Booth develops from here.	2003-05-31
1107921:US	40684262	R1Z7RKYJT0XT8X	0747255970	889059116	The Crediton Killings (Knights Templar)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	setback in a series that was gathering speed	Personally, i felt very disappointed by The Crediton Killings. While I felt that with the last book, A Moorland Haning (which was excellent) the series had really hit it's stride, this book has stalled it bigtime. There's something so uninspiring about it all, this time around. The character's aren't all that interesting, the plot isn't that interesting (i found it very hard to really mind whether the crime was solved or not, or who did it), and neither is the setting. (This last point is particularly interesting, because i myself live not 30 miles from where all Jecks's books are set)<br />The writing isn't exactly inspiring, and doesn't power your reading on. And I found the way that Jecks comes at his plot very annoying...he spends so much time leading the reader down the garden path (for almost 300 pages, he concentrates on one particular plotline), convincing them of the verity of one apparent solution, that I became sure that that solution must surely be correct. So, any other solution then proposed completely fails to feel &quot;right&quot;. It's almost as if a huge chunk of the book is just one big red-herring, leading practically nowhere, so that when the true solution is revealed, it's rather unsatisfying, of the &quot;well, why on earth did I spend so long reading all that other nonsense?&quot; kind. <br />Near the end, I mostly skimmed to get the main plot-points, and couldn't wait for it to be over so that I could start something I knew i'd enjoy more. The only redeeming features of this dull run-of-the-mill mystery were some rather nice developments with a couple of the main characters, and Jecks's good grasp of history and of the atmosphere of the time he is writing about, which he captures in all it's finery.	2003-05-28
1112540:US	40684262	R1S78OA1ED28VW	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What it lacks in plot, it makes up for with Bosch!	Harry Bosch, now officially retired, has time on his hands. But, he still feels the pull of the job, and knows deep down that finding justice for the dead is, for him, not just a job, but a life. And so, he begins to look into a four year old unsolved case that has fallen by the investigatorial wayside, the vicious murder of Angella Benton, a film production assistant, killer just a few days before a daring $2million robbery on a movie set. Bosch gradually uncovers new information, throwing the case into an entirely different light, and finds that, even though he's now left the LAPD, trouble still won't leave him alone...<br />This is a tremendously successful Bosch novel from Connelly, surely the finest American exponent of the gritty cop thriller. It's plot may not be entirely engrossing, but this book has so much in it about Bosch - no doubt helped by the fact that it's told in the first person - that that doesn't matter. Indeed, I don't think Connelly has ever dug quite so deep, or shined his light quite so far into the mysterious dark cavern that is Harry Bosch, which makes this book a real delight for all fans of the series. To be honest, I feel that this book is primarily about Bosch, Bosch and Bosch (oh, and maybe L.A. too), so if you want a novel with a strong plot, maybe pass this by just for now. Although, I'd certainly recommend Lost Light to all those who are already fans. But, as the plot isn't Connelly's best (even though it does turn into something quite special at the books fascinating climax) those looking to just try the series out, should probably try an earlier one.<br />It's fresh, it's very well written, it's engaging, and it even has another final page revelation to shock the reader, making this another gem among the treasure-trove that is Connelly's work.	2003-05-25
1122175:US	40684262	RQ30Y8TVSY8RN	0340793295	880041686	The Faithful Dead (A Hawkenlye Mystery)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Quite frankly, wonderful	When Josse d'Acquin receives a visit from Prince John and a group of his courtiers looking for a mysterious stranger named Galbertius Sidonius, he becomes suspicious. Why would the Prince go out of his way and come to Sir Josse's out-of-the-way manor, instead of visiting the nearby Hawkenlye Abbey, through which it is much more likely a mysterious visitor such as Sidonius would pass? Josse decides to visit the abbey to get his friend the Abbess Helewise's advice. Although, upon arriving he finds that she has troubles enough of her own: a decomposing body has been found in Hawkenlye Vale, and the death the man met was clearly not a natural one. <br />Before much investigation can be carried out, Josse receives another visitor: his brother Yves, who has crossed the Channel from Acquin in Northern France to seek Josse out. A mysterious visitor has been asking after their father Geffroi, dead for several summers. Josse, Yves and the Abbess are soon thrust into a mystery whose roots lay back as far as the Second Crusade, and that has to do with a strange jewel called The Eye of Jerusalem...<br />This is the fifth novel in Alys Clare's brilliant historical series set in and around the Weald of Kent. As in all her novels, the plot she presents if wholly original and completely refreshing. And, of course, thoroughly enjoyable. The writing is nothing short of first-class, and the further development of her characters and their relationships is excellent once again. Both the main protagonists are fully developed and wholly interesting personalities. (It is especially interesting in this book to learn more about Josse's family and its past.) My only criticism of THE FAITHFUL DEAD, and it is true of all five, is that they are not long enough! <br />And, as for historical detail, it's all so wonderfully unobtrusive. It's full of authenticity and atmosphere, and yet not once does it feel as if the reader is being assaulted with show-off period detail. Every word is germane to theplot. In my opinion, this is the best and most thoroughly enjoyable historical series being written today. I would recommend it not just to fans of historical novels, but to fans of all crime fiction. Absolutely wonderful.	2003-05-16
1125827:US	40684262	R3SQBKWTSB1T2T	0399150544	694870885	Fox Evil (Walters, Minette)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very good, but ending is too contrived	Elderly Ailsa Lockyer-Fox died a curious death. One cold morning she was found in her night-dress lying dead on the terrace of her large house, the French windows locked. Even though the coroner pronounces that the death is not suspicious, residents of the village of Shenstead remain convinced that her husband, Colonel James Lockyer-Fox, killed her. There are rumours of vicious arguments between the two, and talk of vile secrets in his past. Allegations fly, and a systematic campaign against him begins. <br />But, when a troop of new-age travellers sets up camp near the village and claim they can stay as long as they wish - permanently, even - for it can't be proved that anyone owns the land, the villagers find themselves in a mess. The only person who could help is Colonel Lockyer-Fox, but after months of their abuse and segregation, he is too tired and worn out, mentally and physically, and no longer cares enough to do anything to help.<br />Which could be a catastrophe. Because all the while the travellers are there, the village is under threat from their violent and mysterious leader, the enigmatic Fox Evil...<br />As always, Minette Walters' wonderful writing style makes this psychological thriller a pleasure to read, and each sentence is a joy. The psychology of her characters (and there are many, all fully developed) is deadly accurate, and every action they make is completely believable and true to their characters. The plot (and book) is very strong, indeed, probably her strongest yet. It's complex and powerful, with many disparate threads twisting together. But...<br />...there is very little suspense. If I were to reveal the main culprit here, it wouldn't spoil the denouement of the book. All the while, the reader believes themselves safe in the knowledge that \\"Well, of course, she's going to have a big surprise for us, isn't she\\", and yet that knowledge turns out to be false. There are, yes, one or two small surprises, and some aspects of the ending echoback to the good old days of \\"The Scold's Bridle\\", but there's nothing very shocking at all about the end. Also, the solution as it is, because there are so many plot-strands, ends up being far too complicated and confusing. Several times in my head I lost myself almost irretrievably.  <br />But, while that does take away from an otherwise very strong book, it doesn't mean that this is a big disappointment. Far from it. I would still recommend it to her fans, and anyone who likes a well-written, enjoyable to read mystery, with good characters a strong plot. Even if the ending is ultimately a bit of a let-down.	2003-05-13
1126208:US	40684262	R12IUT01VFOCZK	038082048X	198885616	The Hanging Valley	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent! Best book so far!	One morning, a solitary walker finds a body in a quiet valley below the village of Swainsdale. The corpse clearly displays signs of a gruesome [demise]- it's as good as faceless - and has apparently lain undiscovered for quite a while. Enter Chief Inspector Alan Banks, straight into an investigation that is already appearing to be dead in the water. No one has any idea who the victim is, or how he got there. Not Sam or Katie Greenock, the couple who run the local guesthouse. Not Freddie Metcalfe, landlord of the local pub. And not either of the Collier brothers, Stephen or Nicholas, the most wealthy family in the area. <br />Then, a curious lead emerges that could help the identify the body, as well as link this crime to another unsolved murder in the area five years before...<br />My, what a good series this is. If you want a contemporary British police mystery with its grounding in the traditional aspects of detective novels, then these early Inspector Banks books really are the place to look. And The Hanging Valley is the best one so far. The plot is excellent. I couldn't really have asked for more from this sort of book. The pacing is great, and there is even a wonderfully interesting trip to Toronto for Banks (investigating a possible lead) which really gives the story a fresh kick. The ending, also, is absolutely excellent, and the final page or so is shocking, taking the book far above more run-of-the-mill traditional British mysteries. I may be in wrong, but I suspect that the finale of this book was really when the series \\"grew up\\". <br />The writing is of an exemplary standard (at times, I think Peter Robinson could easily turn himself to more literary fiction and be held in very high regard), and Banks is a strong lead character and is well developed, even if he'd perhaps a little too distant and cool to achieve the popularity of such peers as Rankin's John Rebus. However, this book does have a slight law in that some of the subsidiary characters (other officers, one or two of the suspects, and evens Banks' own family) could still do with quite a bit more development. Though, I'm almost positive that even those flaws will dissolve as this series progresses.	2003-05-13
1131975:US	40684262	RXASR1FHHQO2F	0553568701	906063634	Bad Love (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Classic Delware entry	The cassette tape arrives one morning in a plain brown wrapper with no return address. Alex Delaware, curious, puts it cautiously into his tape player, and a nightmare opens up before him. There is a long, soul-tearing scream, and then a child chanting the phrase, \\"Bad love, bad love, don't give me the bad love.\\"<br />Shortly after, he receives a mysterious phone call, and then confronts a cruel act of vandalism against him, and is forced to admit that someone, for some twisted reason, has him in their sights. <BR> <BR>He desperately searches his memory for recognition of the phrase \\"bad love\\", and eventually links it to a symposium he attended many years ago, dedicated to the work of child psychologist Andres de Bosch. Puzzled about how this could possibly link back to his taunter, Alex tries to get in contact with some of the other delegates, and discovers a chilling and random series of deaths amongst them. <br />This is the best Delaware book so far (I am slowly but dedicatedly making my way through the series.) It contains everything that makes Jonathan Kellerman books good. Plenty of psychology, his characters, his probingly analytical writing style (which, I must admit now, doesn't serve actions too well) and possibly the best plot he's dreamt up so far. Existing fans will love it, and newcomers to the series would do well to start at the beginning (When the Bough Breaks) and just look forward to this gem. <br />Kellerman's plotting is fluid, original, and moves at very good pace. It's also wonderful to witness Alex as he tries to work his way into the twisted and distorted logic of a killer and find even hints of a possible motive. The only times when this book falls down are when, occasionally, his prose seems too detached, and there are a couple too many characters. Otherwise, this is an excellent addition to a good series.	2003-05-07
1132017:US	40684262	RKV4VLR8U02LM	0515135828	57740013	Acid Row	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Average Walters	A young girl, Amy, goes missing, around the same time it is revealed that a paedophile is living in the housing estate from which she disappeared. The people come out in force to protest at his presence. Slowly, the protests bud into riots, stretching the police force, breeding greater and greater acts of violence. The streets of \\"Bassindale Row\\" (dubbed \\"Acid Row\\" by its inhabitants) are thronged with angry citizens, some well-meaning, and some there just to further incite destruction. Events build to a crescendo, as the troubled housing estate is swept under the tide of a crowd whose slogan is \\"Saving Amy\\"...But, the rioters are unaware of the presence of Sophie Morrison, a young doctor called to the house of the \\"pervert\\" just before events erupted. Now she is trapped inside with a man she increasingly comes to believe is capable of great violence... <br />Minette Walters continues in the vein of her last book, bringing forth a novel once again full of deep social perception. This time, she writes about the events which recently swept Great Britain, with all the furore of exposing paedophiles, and the doubled-edged sword that doing so would unsheathe. <br />The first thirty pages or so are just typical Walters. Accurate psychology, deep prose, great characters, realism in the writing, etc. However, once the riots begin, the book gets swept away with the pace. It moves too quickly. Character development, which was building so brilliantly at first, is sacrificed, and several of the characters introduced later on in the story come across as cardboard and cliched. The excitement of the events just takes the book too quickly. It does make it a great pageturner, yes. And i am sure that fact will win it praise, but at the expense of plot and character development, I'm not certain it's worth it. Because her books are always pageturners ANYWAY. <br />So, the middle section of this book is underdeveloped. I think Walters probably got carried away. When a writer is penningan exciting plot, they are apt to get carried away. they rush it, eager to experience the action of the plot themselves. As such, the action and riots feel underdeveloped and shallow, and the book doesn't always \\"feel\\" like a Minette Walters novel. <br />While the deep accurate psychology of character is lost after the first thirty pages, something does redeem that. Instead of individual character psychology, we are treated this time to an accurate representation of mob psychology. This does make up, mostly, for the fact that the plot is mostly underdeveloped. <br />The ending is very good. A great climax, with a nice twist, but considering what we know of how events like these conspired in England, some may find it predictable from quite a way off. however, that certainly doesn't spoil the enjoyment. <br />The final chapter has been criticised for being too \\"happy ever after-ey\\". Yes, it does contain that quality, but i don't mind. I prefer to look at it as a display of hope, and the fact that sometimes, good does win out over evil, and the sometimes bad events spawn good things. It is rather uplifting, and a lovely way to finish off the book. Leaves you with good, happy feelings about what has happened. <br />This book is still incredibly enjoyable. I finished it in two days. It's a pageturner, and contains some likeable, if at times 2d, characters. The central section is underdeveloped after a brilliant initial 30 pages, and the writing gets swept away in the excitement. However, the explorations of mob psychology at times make up for that, and the ending shines through with hope. As ever, the prose is very good. <br />This is a recommended book, but perhaps not quite what we have come to expect from Walters.	2003-05-07
1143606:US	40684262	R3P4WKCPQZ218R	0345434781	550733810	Gideon	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A thriller that delivers	When struggling writer Carl Granville is approached by a successful editor at the funeral of his agent he is excited to learn that she has a project in mind for him, if he chooses to accept it. She wants him to ghost-write a fictional novel based on real events that will potentially earn him a fortune. The only problem is that she wants it done fast. Real fast. He will have to turn a series of diaries, letters and articles into explosive fiction within just a few weeks. Carl accepts.<br />However, within a few days, Carl begins to get uneasy. He's not entirely comfortable with what the diaries are disclosing - in effect, the murder of a small child - and is unsure whether he really wants to continue. But then, two people close to Carl and brutally murdered, including the editor who originally approached him, and Carl, with no evidence at all to support his claims and no alibi, finds himself to be the prime suspect. Carl quickly realises that he's in great danger...there's someone out there who doesn't want this book written, and they're prepared to go to grave lengths to ensure that it isn't...<br />Excellent thriller. That's really all I can say. Human characters, great writing, and an absolute snake of a plot. It twists and turns and shocks in ways that would make Jeffery Deaver proud. The plot is original enough, and adds a nice twist to the accepted \\"innocent-man-on-the-run\\" formula. The protagonist is a wonderful every-man, and very easy to like. I can only applaud this tense, exciting thriller from the pen of David Handler and Peter Gethers. It's very rare that books written by two people actually work, but Gideon is certainly one of the exceptions. This book should please all thriller fans, and I'm very much looking forward to reading \\"Icarus\\", which sounds equally thrilling...	2003-04-27
1146384:US	40684262	R3E92T30C9TW84	0061057649	861145707	Feet of Clay (Discworld)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	brilliant. what do you expect?	Ankh-Morpork City Watch - despite its growing ranks of dwarves, trolls, gargoyles, werewolves and \\"normal\\" (as much as they can be called that) folk - is getting increasingly snowed under. The more recruits enrolled, Sir Samuel Vimes is discovering, the more crimes seem to be uncovered. <br />Someone is poisoning the Patrician, and Vimes is growing increasingly frustrated because he just can't figure out HOW... And someone is murdering harmless old men. First, there is the old priest Father Tubelcek, who at least died with a glow in his eyes. And then there is the curator of the Dwarf Bread Museum, battered to death with one of his own exhibits. But, perhaps most disturbing of all, the golems - the solemn men of clay who aren't really alive, work all day and all night and never harm a soul - have started to commit suicide...<br />And it's not as if the Watch hasn't got problems of its own ...there's something odd about the new dwarf recruit. There's a werewolf suffering from pre-lunar-tension. And, having discovered that he is actually the Earl of Ankh, Corporal Nobby Nobbs is busy hob-nobbing with the nobs.<br />Vimes finds himself faced with the most puzzling case in Discworld history. There are Clues throwing themselves up all over the place, and they only cloud the issue. Plus, Sam is finding that, for all the answers lying about the place, he can't for the life of him think of the question... <br />All the more ominous is the fact that the real truth may not really be out there at all, but that it might be in amongst the words in the head...<br />First, lets get one thing out of the way. It's hilarious. But of course it is, it's Terry Pratchett. There are some passages that have you chuckling to yourself, and there are others that strike you down helpless with a big belly-laugh. And then, (and these are my favourite) there are those that cause you to laugh jocularly, but then to take a step-back, awed, at the sheer TRUTH of what some of his humour illustrates to us, and the almost unbelievable cleverness of what he's saying and the way he's said it. The mirror he puts up to our own society enables us to laugh at it, to recognise it's curiosities and, sometimes, its shocking flaws.<br />His plots are brilliant, and this one more-so than most. Like his other books, it's a fantasy of the Discworld, but unlike his others, it's also very much a crime/mystery story. And a darned ingenious one it is, too. I've not ever come across a more astoundingly clever way of poisoning someone in all the books I've read that normally fall into the crime/mystery genre. (And that is a LOT.) His characters are wonderfully well-drawn, and Sam Vimes is one of the most fascinating investigators of crime since Inspector Morse or John Rebus.<br />To be honest, any point in the series is a fine a place to begin (and make certain that you DO begin it. You'll not regret doing so, believe me. Well, and his sales figures) as any other, because you're guranteed to want to re-read them all anyway, but it may take you a couple of books to get used to the style. If you balk at anything other than reading a series through rom its beginning, then by all means do so. You'll reap the rewards. But if you're not all that bothered, try a couple from the beginning of the series - perhaps The Colour of Magic and Mort - and then read Feet of Clay.	2003-04-24
1159248:US	40684262	R2MASYGEG673WG	0671004573	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Okay. 3.5	On the morning of Friday June 9th, Nell McDermott and her architect husband Adam Cauliff part on bad terms after an argument about her burgeoning political career. However, soon Nell will come to regret the tone of this parting, as later that day Adam's boat will explode, with he and three others on board. Soon, it will emerge that the explosion was caused by a bomb, and Nell, over the coming days, will find herself in the thick of a construction scandal threatening to blow sky-high.  But who wanted who dead? Was Adam the target, or one o the others? And why? And did all the others really die, or did one manage to escape in time? <br />Wracked with guilt, Nell attempts to unravel the threads of Adam's life and quickly discovers a great deal about him that she never knew, and wishes she never discovered. She becomes even more disturbed when, after encouragement form her aunt, she goes to visit a medium in an attempt to gain some closure, and the medium seems shockingly insightful...<br />Mary Higgins Clark is okay. And that's really the extent of my opinion on the subject. This book, like the others of hers that I have read (all two of `em) is a decent enough read to take you away or a day or so. Her plotting is good (if sometimes pushing against the boundaries of reason) and her pacing is excellent. The books move quickly, with short chapters, form scene to telling scene in a way that is well structured and thought out. There are twists throughout, and a nice level of suspense right up to the tense climax. The writing style is also good, with well-written, easy to digest prose, but it never reaches very deeply, remaining mostly floating on the surface of the plot. The same is true o her character development. The lead character (the obligatory strong female) is well characterised - even if I can't really envision her in a real life situation - but the development of subsidiary characters isn't all that great, and most of them are amorphous. The occasional psychological insight she gives isn't really enough to build characters on, and nor is simply showing us how they interact with other characters around them. As a result, they're quite shallow and very samey, and we really need to see inside their heads a little more.<br />But, yes, I enjoyed reading it. It passed the time of day, the plot was exciting, the surprises adequately thrilling, and it was quite worth the read. And do you know why? Because Mary Higgins Clark is okay.	2003-04-14
1159745:US	40684262	R3B15F30YIHJ5I	0743222008	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Deaver, Jeffery)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deaver's Penned a Killer!	Imagine, revered readers, this scene...two police officers enter the hall of an old gothic music school after screams are heard. The room is dull dusty. But, in the corner they can see the form of a bearded man, leaning over a body. He looks up, sees them. There is a single blinding lash, and he is gone. He rushes into one of the classrooms, and begins barricading the door. Then, a scream, a gunshot. The officers break down the door. And the room is empty.<br />This is only one of the many tricks The Conjurer will perform or your delight over the next two days. He has a large repertoire, designed to make you gasp and applaud, and is all too happy to use his illusions to  confound both you and the investigators who seek him. Sleight of hand, sleight of mind, misdirection, illusions, escapes. All of which, and more, he will joyously employ in his preparation for the final devastating act of our show.<br />The question, revered readers, is this: Will Lincoln Rhyme and his partner Amelia Sachs be able to see beyond the illusions and misdirection, past the smoke and mirrors, in order to discover what is truly going on, and to catch this vicious, cold-blooded killer, who still has several more devastating tricks up his sleeve? So, sit back, relax, prepare to be dazzled with magic, and enjoy The Conjurer's masterful performance.<br />Fantastic. Everything I could possibly say rom here on will simply be a rehashing of that word. Fantastic. This is a stunning performance from Deaver, who is arguably (and probably!) the best thriller writer working today. The subject matter - illusions and magic - is fascinating not just for its cleverness and originality, but for the fact that the misdirections and tricks used by the killer are exactly those Deaver himself uses to constantly twist his story and keep the truth hidden from the astounded reader. The Vanished Man is a marvellous display o all these techniques, and it's wonderful to occasionally delve into the world of magic as well.<br />I don't think I can claim that this is Deaver's best book, but I can say that it is on an equal par with his best (after all, there are so many of them. The Empty Chair, The Stone Monkey, The Devil's Teardrop, A Maiden's Grave, to give but our other examples.) The fascinating Lincoln Rhyme is on excellent deductive form once again, as is the up-for-promotion Sachs, but this time they are joined by the mysterious Kara, a young illusionist whose advice they have sought. Like Sonny Li in The Stone Monkey, Kara is a strong, powerful and very likeable character who would be a great presence in future novels.<br />Deaver's plotting is rich, sumptuous and devious. Here he has weaved a wonderful Shiraz rug of a story that cannot fail to delight the reader as Deaver constantly pulls it out from under them. He twists, turns, and shifts his plot, and the pace carries on relentlessly. The action and suspense begins right on the first page (excellent first paragraph, by the way!) and continues right up to the multiple-punch finale. This is a fantastic book, which contains everything we expect from Deaver and everything I as a reader could possibly desire. So, sit back, relax, prepare to be dazzled with magic, and enjoy Mister Deaver's masterly performance.	2003-04-14
1163028:US	40684262	R1GLTM1I4J35J7	0316602051	985416391	The Jester	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Light, forgettable, but nontheless a thrilling adventure!	The first events of this book move exceptionally swiftly. All within about 50 pages, our hero Hugh deLucs village has been attacked by a group of Knights, he trundles off to the crusades, becomes disillusioned by the horrific acts being carried out in the name of God, and returns, only to find his wife abducted by a group of marauding knights, to punish him for leaving for the crusades with a band who were not the local Dukes men. These Knights, tunics daubed with black crosses, were also searching for something very valuable. A Holy Relic more valuable than anything else in the Kingdomand they come to believe that Hugh might know where it is.<br />So Hugh sets off to Tours - to infiltrate the castle where he believes his wife is being held, and rescue her - dressed only as a mere jester. However, that is still only the beginning of this sprawling historical adventure <br />You must hand it to the authors, this is undoubtedly a rip-roaring adventure story. The historical detail  whether correct or not I cannot say  certainly adds colour to an already ebullient tale, and the characters are a vibrant and entertaining bunch. The only one with any real depth at all, though, is Hugh, but that matters little as the story moves so fast that creating fully developed characters would likely be a wasted effort, because the reader wouldnt have time to appreciate it anyway!<br />In true Patterson style, this lightning-paced book is packed full of short chapters (there are 150 plus of them here, and roughly 100 more pages than most of his novels, which is good to see, as several of his recent books have been growing slimmer and slimmer) and the pages flick by as if blown by the breeze. The quality of the prose is also getting better, closer to that of his first Cross novel, but I expect much of that is down to Gross.<br />Patterson fans are likely to be very pleased with this. Even though it is almost instantly forgettable, it has all the action ofhis thrillers, plus its set in an interesting time period which the authors utilise well. Certainly, read it, if only for the wonderful escapism it provides.	2003-04-10
1167546:US	40684262	R3ORDWL5F3B3XW	0060528052	99496212	Death's Jest-Book	Books	2	6	7	N	N	The jest's on you!	I knew I was going to be disappointed. How could I possibly not be? After all, this book follows on from Dialogues of the Dead (which, by the way, is a masterpiece and the best book I have ever read). However, while I was expecting disappointment, I wasn't really expecting it on quite such a large scale.<br />Hill here tries to juggle three plots at once, and for the most he does the actual juggling quite well, but ultimately each plot is disappointing and the endings unsatisfying. <br />Firstly, Pascoe's mind is occupied once again by Franny Roote, a killer he once sent to jail. However, now released, the cunning and intelligent Roote is trying to convince Pascoe that he's changed his ways and just wants to get on with his book on the poet T.L. Beddoes. But Pascoe is still convinced Roote has a more sinister agenda... Then, there is DC Wield, who attempts to rescue a lad he thinks is in danger, but instead finds himself with a street-wise rent-boy under his wing. Then, when he lad gives him a tip-off about a long-planned robbery, good old Wieldy finds himself in a bit of a pickle... And then, of course, there's Hat Bowler, living in bliss with girlfriend Rye Pomona, the librarian whom he became so entangled with during the brilliance that was \\"Dialogues of the Dead\\". But even with them, too, something shattering lurks on the horizon...<br />This book may be very very well written, and very funny at times (Hill is on form there, at least), but that just isn't enough. The characters are ok and well developed, at least that much can also be said. However, you get the impression that Hill just got tired of his \\"Hat/Rye\\" storyline (such a joy in the last book) and tried to give them as little page-space as he could get away with, making their storyline - potentially the best - the most disappointing, and ending it annoyingly conveniently. Pascoe's storyline is just plain annoying. The long, dull, rambling letters Roote is writing to him get annoying almost as soon as they begin, and yet we are forced to endure an incessant barrage of them throughout the book! The antagonism between the two is also incredibly annoying, and I'm dead sick of it. It's now been going on for three books, and it still doesn't appear to be over. (Additionally, it's frustrating that the Roote we meet now just isn't the same person as the egotistical, cold killer we met in \\"An Advancement of Learning\\"). Wield's storyline is the most enjoyable, but in the end even that degenerates into a mundane heist plot-line that not even Hill's interesting writing style can make engaging. <br />Hill has tried to do too much, and spoiled it. This could have been a great book, but it really only serves to ruin the previous one, which it is nowhere near as good as. If you've not read Dialogues of the Dead, be sure to do so without delay, and then read this one if you have to. <br />For those readers that loved Dialogues of the Dead, the jest's on us.	2003-04-07
1170406:US	40684262	R2SADPR87YUD83	0316153915	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fantastic!	After hearing so much that was negative about this book, i was expecting not to like it at all. I thought i would be looking at another &quot;Void Moon&quot; debacle, but no! This here's one excellent high-tech thriller.  And its not even as if the high-tech-ness has loads to do with it, so dont be put off by that!<br />It's a really cracking story. Great concept...that your new phone number could previously have belonged to someone who is obviously now in great peril...<br />This book has a cracking pace. It moves really quickly, i finished it in ust a couple of sittings. The writing is great, again, as well expect from Connelly. The research is Deaver-esque and impeccable, and Connelly delivers his little scientiic tidbits in small doses and in a way that makes it all very very interesting to read about as a short break from the main plot. The characters are good, but most of them aren't developed brilliantly well...the only character with any real depth is the marvellous Henry Pierce, our lead character, who i'd love to spend more time with in a future novel. He's not quite Harry Bosch, but he's human, and is much more easily likeable at first glance than Bosch is...Indeed, he grows to be an incredibly likeable character all around. <br />Overall, i'd HIGHLY reccomend this. I raced through, found it really interesting, and in the end satisfying. Plus, i don't really understand how people seem to think that Pierce's motivations for trying to track the mysterious escort apparently in danger weren't understandable...to me, they were entirely believeable. But then, i guess this is a book you have to read and judge for yourself...<br />But, personally, i'd say this was first class.	2003-04-04
1172116:US	40684262	R1CHPB1EXLESCE	0151008353	76080055	The Blind Man of Seville	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Great thriller. Great setting. Great characters.	This, the new novel by the award-winning author of A Small Death in Lisbon, appears to have much going for it. The first draw is its rather curious title, the second is its exotic setting, Seville, Spain. Plus, the plot itself sounds rather fascinating...<br />Thursday 12th of April, and a leading restaurateur is found slain in his home. Tied to a chair in front his TV, he has been forced to view horrifically unendurable images. The horrors of these scenes is evidenced by the self-inflicted wounds caused by Raul Jimenez's desperate struggle not to watch them. On top of that, his eyelids have been removed. The normally dispassionate detective Javier Falcon is shocked deeply, and becomes inexplicably frightened by this killer who seems to have know, intimately, every single detail of his victim's life. Never in his career has he confronted a scene so barbaric.<br />But, for Javier Falcon, the worst is yet to come. Because, in investigating the victim's complex past, he discovers that it is inextricably connected with that of his own father, world-famous artist Francisco Falcon. The case eventually becomes not just a hunt for a killer clearly prepared to strike again, but a voyage of discovery for Falcon as he, through Francisco's journals, learns much about his father's past and the dark secrets it hides...<br />This story, told through the dual narratives of fascinating diary extracts and standard third-person narration, is told expertly. Even though the first hundred pages or so grow slightly dull at times, and it takes a while to settle all the numerous characters in your mind, the pace soon picks up as we learn that the case has as much to do with the past as it does the present. The setting is described wonderfully, and the city of Seville is really brought to life, shimmering with vitality. I might even recommend this book for the setting alone. <br />The lead character, Javier Falcon, is unendingly fascinating and gloriously chilly. The reader cannot help but care and get a little worried as his mental health gently seems to decline as he desperately tries to hold everything together in the face of affecting revelations concerning his present and past. When those revelations finally fully come to light near the finish, it is with a great sense of shock on the reader's part. Indeed, the final hundred pages are absolutely wonderful, when everything falls into place and the reader realises the scale of what is being revealed.<br />This book is a great thriller for the most part, and I'd recommend it quite highly. The writing quality is very good, but the prose itself doesn't exactly sing. Instead, it has a rather detached coolness that fits surprisingly well. Part tense thriller, part examination of the effects of the past on the present, and part novel of ideas and of the natural of true art, I'd give this one a big thumbs up on almost all fronts!	2003-04-03
1176593:US	40684262	R14B0YIX61W61D	0446679755	223656325	The Earthquake Bird	Books	5	0	0	N	N	wonderful, delicate thriller	This story begins with the arrest of Lucy Fly, a translator living in modern-day Japan, for the murder of a fellow English woman. It is while sitting in her police cell that she narrates this wonderful story to us. It's written beautifully, and there is not a superfluous word. It's told simply, yet powerfully and is strangely moving at times. The depiction of modern-day Tokyo is excellent, and this is another example of a wonderfully writer who is able to breathe life into their setting and really make the place LIVE.<br />It has touches of a Barbara Vine novel about it all, in that we never really know what truly happened, but we have ideas about what could have. All the while, the real truth is hidden, and while we may have our suspicions, the writer is still able to reveal all in a way that makes the revelation seem a great shock. The plot, matching the writing style, is simple yet engrossing, and it's told brilliantly, with a wonderful mixture of flashbacks. the narrator moves between the past and present seamlessly, telling us exactly what we want to know at exactly the right time.<br />I loved this book. It was refreshingly different from much that i've read, and told in a wonderful style. The setting is great, the characters also. The only thing which got to me slightly was that sometimes, in her narration, Lucy referred to herself as \\"I\\" while she would occasionally she would slip into the third person and talk about herself as \\"Lucy\\". However, my brief annoyance with it was exactly that, brief. I'd reccomend this to anyone. It certainly deserved its win of the CWA Debut dagger award.	2003-03-30
1184172:US	40684262	R2PMRWR14ML1UQ	0451201906	279224818	Storm	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Passes the second-novel test with enviable ease...	This is another excellent thriller from Boris Starling, who has really proved himself to be a guy invested with huge amounts of talent. It opens with the discovery of a bomb on a ferry travelling from Norway to England, and then the sinking of that ferry. Over 300 people die in the tragedy. On board was DI Kate Beauchamp (who y ou may remember from his last book, Messiah). Fortunately, she is one of those that escapes. Back on land, and relatively unharmed, she throws herself into work, taking on the toughest case she can conceive of...<br />A young woman has been found dead. She has been mutilated, tortured, her feet have been removed. And, lying on her body, a poisonous snake... This, to her relatively trained eye, looks like the definite beginnings (if not even continuings) of a serial killer. Then, shortly after, another body is found, and the urgency increases further. Add to that further complications, such as Kate's estranged father Frank, who she has not spoken to since he left her as a child, who is in Glasgow to conduct an inquiry into the ferry disaster, and you have one thrilling thriller.<br />Storm is not quite as good as Messiah, but only because it doesn't contain such wonderful depth and detail that his first book did. Storm is more streamlines, more geared toward the direct movement of the central plot, which is fine, because that makes for an exciting, really quick read. The plot itself is probably equally as good as that of Messiah. But, if it had that wonderful detail, then it might have made the whole book another one to leap and shout about.<br />Starling's prose has a great forward thrust that carries you through the book. And its a book that has many twists and turns through, and a heap of great characters. It's particularly interesting to see Frank, Kate's estranged father, and to read about their troubled relationship.<br />I'd reccomend this serial killer thriller to any fan of tthe genre, anywhere in the world, but with a little warning agaisnt expecting it to be *quite* as good as \\"Messiah*.g agaisnt expecting it to be *quite* as good as \\"Messiah*.	2003-03-23
1185399:US	40684262	R3F4XG9ZJAA4T7	0345447840	383802287	The Surgeon (with Bonus Content): A Rizzoli & Isles Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good serial killer novel	i dont think i shall try to give an approximation of the plot...after all, i expect many have done that beore. plus, this is one of those novels where it's best to have little to no idea of the plot all. Basically, its a serial killer novel set in Boston, about a killer who seems to be mirroring the crimes of a similar monster shot dead by one of his victims two years previously...<br />I shall start by saying that if you like Kathy Reichs/Patricia Cornwell/Karin Slaughter, you should certainly buy this book. It's slightly different, and yet also strikingly similar in that it has a rather medical, forensic focus, which fans of those authors are guaranteed to enjoy...<br />The characters are good, if nothing out of the ordinary. There are no really new or original concepts (after all, the old \\"female trying to make it work in a man's world\\" bit is very much present), but the characters relationships are certainly interesting, and most of them are very interesting in themselves. Especially the lead trio.<br />The plotting is tight, the writing style quick and efficient. There are surprises and shocks constantly throughout the book, which was something i enjoyed very much. The occasional passages about the killer are also fascianting and engrossing. However, in terms of plot, there is little here out of the ordinary...It's a great, fast paced, tremendously enoyable thriller, but if you read serial killer novels regularly, it seems like nothing out of the ordinary (not like Boris Starling's Messiah, for example, which is a masterpiece). However, if you read this kind of novel rarely, or only ust occasionally, you will probably find it excellent. It's probably just me...i do tend to read books like this quite a bit...maybe i should take a break from the genre for a bit, i dont know.<br />So, yes, although nothing special (the plot's great, but theres little within it that hasnt been done before, is basically what im saying here) to readers who read within this genre a great deal, im sure that most readers will really like this book, and i do highly reccomend it to them.reat deal, im sure that most readers will really like this book, and i do highly reccomend it to them.	2003-03-21
1188007:US	40684262	R1NS2G7H8TS4L1	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Absolutely delightful story	This is a strange fantasy/fiary tale from King, and even though it is almost completely dissimilar from his other books, its still equally sucessful. <br />It's a rather basic story. But then, that fits with exactly the type of story it is. A fantasy fable of the kings/princes/magicians type, with intrigue, romance and adventure thrown in. It centres mainly on the plot of the dark magician Flagg to throw the Kingdom of Delain into turmoil, by killing the King anf framing the eldest son, thereby leaving the throne open to the younger heir, who he has shaped over the years so that he will have greater control over the land. But, there is still a loyal band of followers who believe the natural heir is innocent...and all the while he himself, incarcerated in the top of the Needle, a huge tower, is plotting his escape to prove his innocence...<br />There's little to surprise here, and the basic story is slightly predictable, but that doesn't really matter. It's a marvellous piece of escapism, rather like reading a Disney film. It's got all your classic fairytale elements, and its written in a wonderfully easy to read style. This book, probably more than any other he has written, proves what a born storyteller King is, because the entire driving force behind the book is the fact that it is unashamedly a STORY, and nothing less. The narrator, whose occasionally steps in, is a wonderfull omniscient presence, and its almost certainly like King is actually sitting right there with you, telling you this story to you, of a chilly night by the fire. <br />Not too challenging, but a fast pageturner, i would reccomend this to all readers who love the escapism of a wonderful story. You certainly don't have to be a King fan to love this book.	2003-03-19
1189045:US	40684262	RAVJHXRGD1VNJ	0747250715	624527636	A Moorland Hanging (A Knights Templar Mystery)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Hits his stride!	With his third book, Michael Jecks has hit his stride incredibly sucessfully. This is a complete sucess, a prime example of a goo historical crime novel. <br />When Peter Bruther, servant to the Beauscyr household, runs off up to Dartmoor to become a tin miner, the family are furious. They demand his return, and attempt to get the Bailiff of Lydford, Simon Puttock, involved in the dispute. But, due to old standing ancient laws, the Beauscyrs have no legal claim on their servant any more. As long as he is mining tin (which will of course eventually beneift the Kings armaments) he is exempt from normal laws. <br />Then, one morning, Peter Bruther's body is found hanging from a tree on the edge of an ancient woodland...<br />Cue the investigating team of Simon Puttock and his friend Sir Baldwin Furnshill. They must play games of diplomancy with the Beauscyr family and the mining community, especially the important landowner and mining magnate Thomas Smyth, who controls most of the mining that goes on, to try and stop the situation exploding. They must do this alongside their murder investigation. This task is difficult enough, but it becomes further complicated when an almost all-out war between the miners and landowners begins to rage up on the moor...<br />Excellent. For any fan of historical novels, i would reccomend this one unreservedly. It's Jeck's best book by far. The plot is absolutely fascinating and multi-layered. The examination of the complexities of English law is engrossing and incredibly interesting, and the tensions between the two groups of people are depicted excellently. As the situation escalates, Jecks manages to pile on a fair amount of suspense, too, which im not always used to in mostly leisurely historical mysteries. <br />The characters, and their oft antagonistic relationships with one another, are very well developed and interesting. The conclusion is exciting and action-filled, the atmosphere of the setting is drawn out brilliantly, and the final solution is satisfying. This book comes highly reccomended.	2003-03-18
1203911:US	40684262	R38M82EU7QCVZD	0446611611	817062475	City of Bones (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Not quite the best, but certainly a strong entry!	When some bones are discovered - by a man walking his dog on an L.A. hillside - in a shallow grave, Harry Bosch really doesn't know what to expect from the case. Shortly after, the bones are proved to be human, and sent of for forensic examination. This examination reveals that these bones belonged to a young boy, and have lain buried on that hillside for over 20 years. And, they are also found to detail a horrific tale of abuse and violence visited on the young boy. Repulsed once again by witnessing yet another of society's lows, Bosch vows that this victim, unlike many others, will find justice and not be forgotten.<br />This is a very welcome return for Harry Bosch, one of the best series characters being written about today (along with Rankin's Rebus and Deaver's Rhyme.) City of Bones is a great success. It boasts a strong, if unremarkable, cast and an interesting and incredibly well paced plot. The writing is polished and taut, and the result is probably the most tightly plotted Bosch novel of the entire series.<br />And the ending, which may seem out of character to some readers, certainly promises an exciting new direction for the series, and demonstrates once again Connelly's great skill at keeping his work constantly fresh.	2003-03-06
1209464:US	40684262	R39AO33RM1H72L	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	worth the wait!	all i can say is, this book was damn worth the wait and the delay. A compelling, very fast-paced book, this is an immensely welcome return to his brilliant duo (probably the best detective team in all fiction) Elvis Cole and Joe Pike. <br />An approximation of the plot is quite simple: Ben Chenier, son of Elvis's longterm girlfriend Lucy, goes missing, and then they recieve a sinister phonecall rom the kidnappers, clearly signalling that the disapperance is an act of terribly vengeance for something that Elvis did when he was a young solider in Vietnam...<br />Of course, things are slightly more complicated than that. Richard, Lucy's ex-husband and Ben's father, has never liked her relationship with Elvis, convinced that it can only put his son into danger, and he blazes into town from Louisianna, and desperately tries to close Elvis out from the case. Cue much squabbling, arguing, and going it alone. <br />We also see the return of Carol Starkey (of Demolition Angel fame), whose now working on the uvenile services unit. Coarse and hared edged as ever, she goes above and beyond the call of duty trying to keep Elvis and Joe in the loop as they desperately seek clues concerning Ben's disappearance.<br />This is a long-awaited novel, and it delivers everything that is expected of it. While L.A. Requiem was really Joe Pike's book, The Last Detective is really about Elvis, and there are some incredibly moving insights into his past re Vietnam and his boyhood. One or two scenes may even lead long-term readers of the series who have grown to care immeaureably for Elvis, the PI who dont like to grow up, yet who is older than his years, to shed a few tears. <br />It's very fast-paced, exciting, and very well written. If anything, im slightly disappointed that i let myself read it so quickly, because now i know i have quite a long an torturous while to wait for a new Elvis and Joe adventure!<br />If you've not read anything in the series before, what are you waiting for??? Goto \\"The Monkey's Raincoat\\" and devour your way through. If you're an existing fan, what are you waiting for??? This is another Elvis and Joe book, for heavens sake!	2003-03-02
1211096:US	40684262	R1QLVXQIQ8DJ5	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	2	3	N	N	So, his latest books are disappoiting, are they?	Tequila Watson is due to be prosecuted for the murder of Ramon Pumphrey, the victim on an unprovoked and seemingly motiveless shooting, and Clay Carter, a young lawyer from the Office of the Public Defender, gets landed with the defence case. There is no doubt that Watson did it, there are witnesses and even he himself admits to the deed, although his only reason seems to be a puzzling \\"I just felt like it.\\"<br />Then, a mysterious representative of a large pharmaceutical company comes to Clay with a shocking secret. Evidently, a new wonderdrug, \\"Tarvan\\" - which cures drug addiction after a period of prolonged use - has some horrific side-effects that the company is prepared to pay millions to keep quite, and Clay was in the right case at the right time. This is a deal that could make all his dreams come true, and possibly even entice Rebecca - the woman he loves - back to him again, at the same time as making him the legal-world's newest king of torts...<br />Now, this is my first Grisham book, so after hearing that his latest are disappointing, I came to it with caution. And soon found all my fears dispelled into the mist. Grisham seems to me to be just another of several mega-bestselling authors that have unjustly fallen victim to their own popularity. I found The King of Torts to be an absolutely marvellous tale of the cogs of law, thrilling, fast, and authentic, which carried me with it late into the night.<BR> <BR>His characters are a well-drawn, realistic lot, and their relationships are interesting. The plot in itself may not be full of action, but the book is nonetheless a pageturner, due in no small part to Grisham's wonderful writing style that is just so darn easy to read, without descending into Patterson-esque simplicity. I found myself carried along swiftly by it, floating along as if on a lexical cushion of air. It's a pageturner not because its exceptionally exciting (\\"interesting\\" is more the word) but because the prospect of reading another few pages is just so easy. <BR> <BR>This is a fascinating book or several reasons. The legal-workings. Clay's spectacular and cheering rise to the highest echelons of mass-tort lawyers. And, then, his even more fascinating fall from grace, which therein lies the none-too-subtle lesson of this morality tale.<br />Grisham is a fantastic storyteller, and, like other popular writers who are supposedly going downhill, I found no evidence of that here. I suppose it might just be that over-exposure to his books dulls them a little, but at first glance this seems to me to be yet another writer the reports of whose decline have been greatly exaggerated.	2003-03-01
1214911:US	40684262	RJFZJMPN7JGTY	0380716453	120336271	A Dedicated Man (Inspector Banks Mysteries)	Books	5	34	39	N	N	traditional, unchallenging British mystery	When the body of local historian Harry Steadman is found buried beneath a dry-stone wall near the village of Helmthorpe, Chief Inspector Alan Banks finds himself presented with a extremely puzzling case. And why is it puzzling? Because, aside from a minor disagreement with his friend and local farmer over his selling of some lad, Harry was invariably liked y everybody, ad even that minor inconsequential argument was no reason to kill somebody. Harry was a kind, thoughtful, and respected man, whom everyone liked and about whom no one can find a bad word to say. There seems to be absolutely no motive for his murder. And yet, buried somewhere, there must be one<br />Then, Sally Lumb, a local teenager whom Banks suspects of knowing more than she is telling, alarmingly disappears<br />Very much an English cosy in the tradition of writers like Ann Granger, this is another success for Peter Robinson. There seems to be nothing exceptionally challenging in these early novels, but theyre very enjoyable reads. Robinson writes good prose, and structures his mysteries excellently. He develops his characters well, even if they themselves are nothing out of the ordinary. Banks is an excellent lead, very real and with a dry humour there is definitely something of Morse in him. But, it would be nice if we got to meet his family a bit more pretty soon<br />Anyone who likes a nice, traditional, well-crafted and satisfying British mystery is guaranteed to like the books of Peter Robinson.	2003-02-25
1214913:US	40684262	R5YERTXLZ316R	0688174574	695846125	Blindsighted: A Novel (Dr. Sara Linton)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	debut to die for!	It's Monday morning in the sleepy tow of Heartsdale, Georgia, and everything is as normal. That is until Sara Linton - local paediatrician and medical examiner and ex-wife of Chief of Police Jeffery Tolliver - goes to the bathroom of the local diner and finds Sibyl Adams, sister of detective Lena Adams, barely clinging to life. She has been viciously raped, ad a cross has been cut deep in her abdomen. Despite Sara's desperate efforts to bring her back to the land of the living, Sibyl dies, thus becoming the first victim of a serial killer ready to commit ore horrifying crimes than anyone in this genteel little town could ever have dreamed of.<br />Then, a young student goes missing, and, shortly after, another victim is found, crucified and lying on the bonnet of Sara Linton's car...<br />This, an excellent portrait of crime in small-town America, is an absolutely first-class debut novel. Taut, suspenseful and shocking throughout, this is a runaway success that puts Karin Slaughter (perfect name!) right on the front line of female thriller writers, alongside Mo Hayder, Cornwell, Reichs, McDermid and the like. \\"Blindsighted\\" is bloody well-written, too, and Slaughter has struck an exquisitely perfect balance between plot and character.<br />The plot is excellent. It's brutal at times, although never gratuitously, shocking, with one or two events completely taking me by stunned surprise, yet also moving and compassionate. The leading trio are a compelling, fully realised bunch, and their relationships with one another (especially Sara and Jeffery) are fascinating.<BR> <BR>Slaughter clearly has some fantastic talent and promise within her. \\"Blindsighted\\" is reminiscent of Cornwell's own spectacular debut, \\"Postmortem\\", and, while not yet quite as good as her, she hopefully has a long, similarly successful and influential career ahead of her.<br />Like Boston Teran's \\"God is a Bullet\\", \\"Blindsighted\\" is a debut to die-for.	2003-02-25
1215435:US	40684262	R1DDH8VW7YQIH6	0451191951	31402136	The Brimstone Wedding	Books	5	10	10	N	N	another masterpiece	Genevieve Warner, a young woman trapped in a hopeless affair and a loveless marriage, works at Middleton Hall, a home for the elderly. Most of the residents are pleasant enough, contentedly reminiscing about their lives to their carers, but Stella is different. Stella and Genevieve immediately form a bond, taking to one another, seeing little bits of their own personality and situation within the other.  Unlike other residents, though, Stella is sharp, smart, and in control, and she does not share the memories of her past, so retains a definite air of mystery. But Stella is dying of lung-cancer, and now she feels a desperate need to tell someone the story of her eventful life, so that her secrets do not die with her, following her into the grave, unknown forever. Thus, she decides to tell her story to Genevieve, slowly unfolding a tale that is moving, powerful, and, ultimately, subtly horrific. <br />This, \\"The Brimstone Wedding\\", is yet another masterpiece of atmospheric fiction from Barbara Vine (Ruth Rendell). Yet again she synthesises her twin storylines - one in the past, one in the present - brilliantly, and they eerily mirror each other down the generations. She builds the atmosphere brilliantly in both the time periods, and the suspense is continually ratcheted up, helped along by subtle and tantalising hints as to what exactly Stella's shocking secret could possibly be.         <br />This time around, the characters are also more likeable than is the norm for a Vine novel, so it has a warmer, deceptively (and dangerously) cosy feel, which is juxtaposed with the usual chilly atmosphere and down-to-the-bones and wonderfully detached writing style. They're characters you are motivated to care deeply about, which serves to make this not only a powerful in places but also very moving. Certainly, there was one point when I even shed a few tears. <br />The story is told brilliantly, giving readers enough information to satisfy, but yet as little as possible, to ensure that they need continually to turn the page to find out more. It all culminates excellently with a shocking revelation about the true nature of Stella's secret. This revelation is not overblown and exaggerated, as some authors might make it, instead Vine underplays it, clearing it entirely of melodrama and simply telling things exactly as they were, which forces the reader to actually think about it, thus bringing huge power to the climax. <br />This, a masterpiece that is the sum of many excellent parts, is a complete triumph for Vine, matching up very equally with my previous favourite of hers, the erotic and chilling genius that is \\"No Night Is Too Long\\". Neither of these books should be passed over by any reader worth their salt.	2003-02-25
1215734:US	40684262	R30X0BTMT9UEBI	0345450892	431887144	The Lake of Dead Languages (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	fantastic, completely enchating and intriguing debut	Jane Hudson has returned to Heart Lake - a girl's school nestled cosily beside the waters of said lake - after 20 years to teach Latin. Many years ago, whilst studying there as a scholarship student under the charismatic Domina Chambers, a tragic series of events (the suicides of two roommates and her best-friend's brother) occurred, that burnt themselves into the very fabric of Jane's self, affecting who she is today. Now she's back at the school, amidst the turbulent emotions of the teenage girls, struggling to cope with all the emergent memories, when, with horror she has to watch as the cathartic events of two decades ago appear to be recurring before her eyes...<br />This book is quite, quite amazing. I've not read a novel containing such rich, beautiful prose in a long while, with each word combining to form a fully realised almost tangible image, full of wonderful detail. Certainly, I've never come across a writer who can describe a lake in so many varied, and, quite frankly, once again beautiful, ways, with each new descriptions causing a bright smile of utter contentment to spread across my face, happy in the knowledge that our language can be used to evoke such wonder from a single image. The tone is, often, very claustrophobic and haunting, given the insular nature of the community in which the involving mysteries take place, and especially when concerning the eerie \\"three sisters\\", - named thus due to an old myth surrounding the school  - which are 3 stones which rise up out of Heart Lake, and seem to have some kind of mystical pull over the impressionable teenage girls of the school. <br />The characters are great, especially Jane Hudson (our likeable and very human narrator) and her young students, whom, in her Latin class are given classical \\"nicknames\\", such as Vesta and Athena, which may be indulgent, but I found to be another completely magical touch. The plot itself is marvellous, original and puzzling all the way through and very engagingly told.Some people have said that aspects of the plot are predictable, but I didn't find them so...I was far too wrapped up in the writing style to bother trying to second-guess the plotline. There are revelations throughout the story, each one bringing a wonderful level of ice-like clarity to one particular feature of the plot. The suspense is built up masterfully, yet almost invisibly, so you don't notice it much, until suddenly there is a great sense of foreboding at the events soon to come. I am surprised that this is her first novel. All of this culminates brilliantly - along with the explanation of what truly happened all those years ago - to a pulse-pounding conclusion atop the frozen-solid surface of the lake.<br />Some books appeal to the heart, and some to the mind. For me, this one went straight to the soul.	2003-02-25
1215764:US	40684262	R213OVJVWOIJPL	0451409000	931515590	Messiah	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fabulous serial killer thriller!	One hot May morning, two corpses are found brutally slain in two different areas of London. One has been hanged, and the other has been savagely beaten, but that the killings are linked is indisputable. Both bodies had one thing in common: from each one the tongue has been removed, and a silver spoon placed inside the mouth as a replacement. <br />Enter Red Metcalfe, a policeman who has faced down killers like this before and won. Carefully he selects his team and the investigation into a killer who leaves absolutely no clues begins in the face of a sweltering London summer. <br />In the coming months, several more shocking killings occur, and Red's sense of frustration and desperation heighten, until he discovers something that throws the whole case up in the air, casting it in an even more disturbing limelight. <br />It is clear that these deaths are not just committed by a violent madman bent on blood and destruction. This killer is on a mission. This killer has something to say. This killer has a message. And this is killer is going to go on spreading it...<br />This is an astounding debut novel. It's absolutely breathtaking in its scope, and certain aspects - namely the cunning and cleverness and originality of some bits of the plot - of it are almost guaranteed to blow you away. <br />Red Metcalfe is a lead character as tormented as almost any you will find, but that is what makes him the best at what he does. And, in common with all the most popular fictional protagonists, he is very likeable in spite of his flaws, and immensely human because of them. The writing is succinct, and has a very powerful forward thrust that propels the reader through a narrative which constantly both shocks and horrifies. It's written, in true James Patterson style, with very short chapters. In less talented hands, this device can make novels seem disjointed, but Starling uses the device to it's full capacity, giving the novel a strange flow as the reader is pulled from scene to scene, unable to tear themselves away.  However, unlike James Patterson, the writing quality is far better, the characterisations more deep and advanced, and the plotting is stronger and much cleverer, and yet the book looses none of its thrills. <br />The final solution is very clever, and all at once everything suddenly falls into place making a wonderful deluded kind of sense, and also a surprise, but isn't very original upon reflection, which is a slight shame but an extra \\"twist\\" in the last couple of chapters adds one final powerful kick. And even if the identity of the killer isn't all that original, the rest of the book is, and the denouement and climax are still very tense and exciting.<br />Overall, an excellent serial killer novel. Original, with strong characters and plotting. Few novels are as good as \\"The Silence of the Lambs\\" (since I read it I've read about three that are, including Jonathan Nasaw's \\"The Girls He Adored\\"), however, this one most definitely comes very, very close. Some would say Starling is one to watch. I wouldn't. I'd say he was one to go out and read. Now.	2003-02-25
1237607:US	40684262	R3CQAGVH5O1TJP	0061020613	532931410	Witches Abroad	Books	5	1	1	N	N	All's well that ends well	This is yet another hilarious and very clever novel from pratchett, who cannot seem to spout forth anything but genius. <br />The trouble begins when Magrat has the dubious honour of godmothership betstowed on her, and to carry out her duties, she must travel to the distant city of Genua (a sort of Discworld version of New Orleans which, incidentally, i WISH he had brought this wonderful place back in another book). While there, accompanied of course by the continually brilliant Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg, she must in fact STOP a servant girl from marrying the prince, helped only by her trusty wand, which has the awkward habit of turning everything into pumpkins... <br />Wonderful. A wonderful book, for many reasons, only a few of which i am truly aware of. It is, of course, hilariously funny, and many side-splitting moments are contained within, but there's also a very sinister tone to it all, which is unexpected due to enforced happy-ever-after-ness that pervades Genua, the ruler of which makes it their duty to go about forcing everyone into cheer and happiness. Yet it is also a novel about stories and their nature, and about the nature of \\"good\\" and \\"evil\\"  (i.e. which is really which?)<br />I love the witches, and although Death is probably my favourite character (aint he everyones?), the witches series is my favourites series within the Discworld series, i just can't get enough of them. All of which the witches books rank somewhere in my top ten pratchett books, and this one in particular lies very near the top of the list, i think. (Can't be sure, because, after all, he's written so very many excellent books, almost ALL of them could feature on a \\"Top Ten Of Pratchett\\" list). Regardless of that, this is a novel that every fan of Disworld should read, it's got great characters, a wonderful story, it flows marvellously, the setting and the atmosphere is quite excellent, and it goes without saying that it's all hilarious. If you're new to Pratchett though, ireccomend you start at the beginning, \\"The Colour of Magic\\", and simply read your way through this first-class series, enjoying every single step of the way. <br />Long live Terry Pratchett!	2003-02-07
1240741:US	40684262	R34CAXMIVOX0O7	0060198788	582619016	Close to Home: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	great crime novel	Now, this is only my second taste of Peter Robinson. My first came when I eagerly read Gallows View the first Inspector Banks novel, and came away suitably impressed. Impetuous as I am, I decided to abandon series order and read this latest one. Naughty, but true. Needless to say, I am now positive that I have been missing out on a great series. <br />In the summer of 1965, Graham Marshall, a young boy and friend of Alan Banks, disappeared into thin air while on his paper round. Now, decades later, some human bones are unearthed not ten miles from his home. They are quickly identified as Graham's. <br />Alan Banks is holidaying in Greece (recuperating from his last, affecting case) when he reads of the discovery of his old friend's remains in a newspaper, and promptly decides that it's time to return to see if he can lend a hand. <br />While all this is going on, another young boy disappears in Yorkshire, and while the dual cases are entirely unconnected, for Banks they still hold eerie similarities, as they echo each other across the gap of years. Then, curious memories begin to surface about his old friend. Memories which may have a bearing upon what happened, and memories that Banks now wants explaining...<br />It is clear that Chief Inspector Banks has remained the likeable, delightfully realistic protagonist that I met in Gallows View, and I suspect that for long-term fans it'll be a great treat to meet, as we do in this book, his parents. <br />This is often a very nostalgic novel, giving us insight into Bank's childhood at the same time as being both moving and haunting. The writing is clean and sharp, the plot is good (although nothing extra special) and structured well, he develops his characters adequately (in fact, I am probably missing out a little due to not reading the series in order), and they are very interesting. Although I would like to have got to know Michelle Hart a bit better. But then, I expect he's storing that up for the next one... The police procedural aspects are handled with the skill and knowledge of a seasoned profession, and at times he certainly shows himself to be more than qualified to challenge such greats in the field of British police procedure as Ian Rankin and Reginald Hill.<br />The solutions to both parallel mysteries are satisfying and quite unexpected. Existing fans of Banks (and I now count myself most definitely among them) are sure to be pleased with this novel, as are readers new to him. (Although, those of you that are new to him, I would, in retrospect, recommend reading the series completely in order.)<br />Ian Rankin clearly has some hot competition following hot on his heels.	2003-02-04
1241532:US	40684262	RKBZ68FDZEFPM	0747250707	279093405	The Merchant's Partner (A Medieval West Country Mystery)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Solid, enjoyable, but unspectacular	One, wintry morning, local midwife and \\"witch\\" Agatha Kyteler is found dead in a hedge at the edge of a field, her throat cut so viciously that her head is nearly severed. There seem to be no clues at all, until soon afterwards a youth - who recently boasted at how he felt the woman deserved death - flees the village of Wefford, seeming to confirm his guilt. All around are convinced that he is the culprit, but Sir Baldwin Furnshill, Keeper of the King's Peace, is not so sure...there are several niggling doubts, several things which the youth's guilt would leave unexplained. And Baldwin seems to be proved right when the runaway is captured once more, and soon after it is revealed that in fact has an alibi...Which means that Simon Puttock, bailiff of the area, is going to have to reassess his ideas and begin again...<br />As far as historical mysteries go, this one is much more satisfying than his first, THE LAST TEMPLAR, which left a bit to be desired.  THE MERCHANT'S PARTNER is a much better book, full of intrigue, red-herrings, subtle historical detail (be it correct or not, I don't much mind), good characters and an adequate plot. <br />I don't think anyone will claim that it's full of action and excitement, but despite that this book is a page-turner because Jecks' writing really, really flows, leading us from one scene to the next with smooth ease. While in his first book the only characters who seemed real or developed were the two leads, this time around the development of his subsidiary characters is far more satisfactory, and the plot is a lot more interesting as well. Red herrings are laid expertly, taking the reader, and the investigators, completely down the wrong path, until the end when we finally see the light in what is an excellent solution to the mystery. If you're a fan of the historical mystery sub-genre, I would recommend you try Jecks...certainly, the rest of the series shows much promise indeed.	2003-02-04
1241558:US	40684262	R1MMBPIAP31QUP	0553299506	985189509	Private Eyes (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	fresh life into the series	Nine years ago, Alex Delaware successfully treated Melissa Dickinson, a tormented and phobic young girl, irrationally scared of almost everything. After two years of treatment, Melissa seems almost totally recovered, so her need for Dr Delaware ceases, and she becomes one of his most spectacular triumphs. Now, Melissa contacts Alex again, this time seeking advice concerning her mother. Gina Dickinson is a recluse, an ex-actress hiding away from the world ever since a vicious acid attack that left her scarred for life, even after extensive and traumatic plastic surgery. Even though Gina is now seeing, with some effect, a psychiatrist of her own, Melissa wants to know if Alex feels her mother could cope if she went away, accepting her place Harvard. Then, one day, Gina inexplicably climbs into her car, and drives off into thin air, leaving a tangled mystery to be unravelled in her wake. <br />I had started to think that this series was in danger of going stale. The prose is adequate and easy to read, but hardly full of spirit and at times seems a little perfunctory, and Alex Delaware has also remained a rather static - if very likeable - character. But now, after reading Kellerman's excellent standalone \\"The Butcher's Theatre\\", I returned to the series with \\"Private Eyes\\", and found it a wonderfully invigorating experience. This may be his lone of his longest Delaware books to date, but every word is fascinating, and there seems to me to be fresh fire in the writing. The characters are all very well developed, and although Kellerman never really takes any risks with his well-structured plot, it's a complex and clever book that really kicks the brain into gear, and presents one or two nice surprises along the way. <br />The psychology is dead-on, the relationships are all fascinating, the characterisation is acute, and the resolution is exciting, well-done, and satisfying. This may well turn out to be the rock of the Delaware series. To find out, i shall have to read on...	2003-02-04
1259642:US	40684262	R2VNZ4J1B91PVV	0517064421	428103286	The House of Stairs	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exemplary novel by Vine	As Elizabeth Vetch is travelling down the street in a taxi, she suddenly spots a woman whom she used to know many years before. A woman that she thought was still in prison. She calls the vehicle to a stop, and rushes off in pursuit of her old friend. Eventually, Elizabeth looses her amid the bustle of London. Then, here memories triggered by this event, she begins to tell the reader her story...<br />It's a tale that leads to a time when Elizabeth was staying in a tall boarding house (known by its residents as the House of Stairs) run by her kindly old friend Cosette, when all the varied inhabitants lived in peace and harmony, and when she was in a relationship with the enigmatic Bell, a woman who will soon be arrested for murder. But, then Mark comes into their lives, and the effects of his presence soon mean that none of their lives will ever be the same again. For death is following in his path...<br />Barbara Vine (aka Ruth Rendell) is quite, quite marvellous. The way she mixes past and present, the current story and the flashbacks to the events which happened at the House of Stairs is masterful, and not nearly as confusing as a lesser writer might make it. Her demonstrations of how the past can hold an inextricable grip on all our future's are brilliantly subtle. The characters she creates are almost unbearably realistic, and few of them are likeable. Even the kindly Cosette's needy dependency may grate on some after a while. She also injects a great subplot concerning the fact that Elizabeth, our narrator, may well have inherited the Huntington's Chorea that runs in her family.<br />The suspense Rendell creates with the almost unbearably slow (although never, ever boring) teasing out of her plots is immense, and she maintains it right to the end, when the final surprise is revealed. Some longstanding fans of Rendell may be able to guess the main subtle twist that she uses (but not all she has up her sleeve), for she has used a similar one before (but in a rather different way). But then, as another reviewer has said, very aptly, of Rendell, \\"she pulls back the curtain to reveal, rather than to surprise\\".<br />Vine/Rendell is not going to be ideal for anyone who prefers their thrillers to be fast-paced and exciting, with constant surprises, but if you're the sort of reader who admires an intelligent, immaculately written thriller, full of realistic characters, subtle suspense, and with one or two surprises along the way, then there is no one better at providing this that Rendell. The House of Stairs is a prime example	2003-01-20
1260558:US	40684262	R2U0K9ELQNM1Z5	0316766844	640308649	Resurrection Men: An Inspector Rebus Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Well, 13 obviously isn't unlucky for Rankin....	Detective Inspector Rebus has crossed the line. Never one for authority, this time he has gone too far. During a dispute over how to handle the investigation into the death of Edinburgh art dealer Edward Marber, Rebus throws a mug of coffee over the Chief Super, and is immediately suspended. He then faces his Last Chance Saloon, as he is sent back to Police College for punishment, to learn the foreign (to Rebus, at least) arts of discipline and respect for authority. He is placed with four other of the force's more unorthodox members, and as a training exercise they are given an unsolved case - the murder of Edinburgh low-life Rico Lomax - to have a deeper look at. However, it soon becomes apparent to Rebus that something incredibly fishy is going on, something that has to do with the real reason their superiors have asked them to investigate this case...<br />Meanwhile, back in Edinburgh, Rebus' protégé DS Siobhan Clark is left to deal with the killing of the art dealer, and feels herself being thrown into uncertainty when the name of notorious gangster - and Rebus's nemesis - Morris Gerald Cafferty, recently released from prison, turns up. Is she ready to follow in Rebus's footsteps, and is she capable of contending with the possible new complexities of an already puzzling case?<br />This, Rankin's 13th Rebus novel, is one of his very best. It boasts a brilliantly thick plot, true to previous form, more great characters, a tense yet blunt writing style, and of course Edinburgh, which continues to breath and pulse like a menacing giant. John Rebus is on absolutely wonderful form yet again in a complex, engrossing, and incredibly strong book, and DS Clarke is marvellous, becoming more and more like her boss every day. It is clear that Rankin is priming her to step into Rebus' shoes upon his retirement, which is surely not far away. And when Rankin does retire him to a more background role, reader's need not worry, as Clarke is an ideal replacement.<br />I would recommend this book, indeed to entire series, the best currently being produced in Britain, to anyone who is a fan of brilliant crime novels. In the UK Rankin is a writing phenomena, sales of his books alone account for approximately 10% of the ENTIRE British crime market. And quite deservedly so. He's a brilliant crime writer whose talents eclipse those of even such greats as Michael Connelly (in my opinion), and Resurrection Men can only further cement his growing readership in the US. If there's any justice, Resurrection Men, this 13th in the rebus series, will be a best-seller all over America.	2003-01-20
1263223:US	40684262	R152YL4G26R5FZ	0345428080	831243969	Crisis Four	Books	4	0	0	N	N	very adequate	this is another very adequate thriller by McNab. The plot and plotting seem more mature than in his first novel - which was good anyway. The writing style is relatively simple, but this makes this very much the &quot;normal man's thriller&quot;, with good action, good macho thrills, women, fighting, none too taxing twists...(which are sometimes very welcome). McNab's use of cliches is also strangely endearing...Nick Stone is definitely a normal guy, doing and saying and acting in the way normal people do. He's a human character, and McNab develops him well. Sarah Greenwood, the woman he is sent by his superiors to hunt down is also a very strong presence in the novel...<br />To anyone who wants good action, thrills, adequate writing and a human lead, coupled with a good plot, i would reccomend they give McNab try.	2003-01-17
1279823:US	40684262	ROVY23B0U5HJP	0671787454	609092345	The Girls He Adored	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Possibly best serial killer book since &quot;Silence OTL&quot;	FBI Agent Ed Pender is convinced there's a serial killer on the loose with a penchant for women with strawberry-blond hair. Over the past ten years there have been several similar disappearances, yet no bodies are ever found, and no suspicions are raised. <br />When Officer Terry Jervis pulls over a car for running a red light, she is horrified to witness the strawberry-blond passenger's bowels spill out into her own lap. The driver makes a desperate bid to escape, leaving terry with terrible injuries, but is eventually captured. Ed Pender hears of what has happened, and the more he learns the more he is convinced that this man, who calls himself Max, is the deadly serial killer he has been searching for. <br />\\"Max\\" claims to have DID (disassociative identity disorder), and the court appoints Dr Irene Cogan to do a psychological evaluation of him. But, this is a job which will end up nearly costing her life, for Irene Cogan has strawberry-blond hair...<br />Jonathan Nasaw's first foray into the world of the serial killer is a complete success, on every single level. THE GIRLS HE ADORED is a terrific novel; at times frightening, and at times very moving, when the horrifying abuse that created this killer is described. The many personalities within Max are all as developed as individual characters, and as they are so varied we are presented with a killer who can at times be incredibly chilling, and other very charming, even vulnerable. And Ed Pender and Irene Cogan are two of the most likeable and realistic protagonists you are likely to find. The writing itself is of a high standard, and serves the pace and plot well, right up to the exciting conclusion.<br />This is probably the best serial killer novel I've read recently, the characters, psychology and pace make it horrifyingly compelling. Aspects of the plot are completely original, with some great twists to the accepted formula, although it is clear sometimes that the book does owe a large debt to The Silence ofthe Lambs. Indeed, many serial killers are compared to the yardstick of that Harris book, but very few deserve the comparison. This is one of those that does. I would recommend it to anyone who likes serial killer novels, especially if they can get over the initial fact that it bears one or two similarities to TSOTL. Brilliant stuff.	2003-01-05
1288106:US	40684262	R3VJ0KFOT6U7ES	0340821191	651363314	The White Road	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Quite simply wonderful	This is the best of the four. Every Dead Thing was a good read, but overcomplicated with too many characters and plots. Dark Hollow was much better. ANd even that warranted five stars. Then came The Killing Kind which was stupendously excellent. The best thriller of 2001. Even better than Dark Hollow. But now comes The White Road. And it's even better. <br />John Connolly's prose is simply wonderful. It is superbly lyrical, and his descriptions are superbs. I was in awe when he described a world as being \\"painted on glass\\". He has many sentences like that, which stop you in your tracks and make you realise how truly [darkly] beautiful his writing is. <br />Charlie Parker is back, and fighting for his life, and thst of his lover and unborn child. the demonic preacher Faulkner is out for revenge, the instruments of which will be horrfying killer Cyrus Nairn, who keeps his secrets buried by the riverside. At the same as Parker is investigating the rape of the young daughter of the wealthy Earl Larousse. Accused is her black boyfriend, Atys Jones. But deep in the nearby swamps something lurks...something connected to a long ago crime, and it wants vengeance...<br />This is a stunning novel. The darkness of it is haunting, and its complexity astounding, but JOhn COnnolly manages to tell you the tale in an easy to undderstand way. <br />It is truly chilling. The way Connolly blends subtle elements of horror in with a crime novel is awe-inspiring. And with this book he has created his most dark plot yet, yet it seems to contain a tiny snub of light shining through at points. At times the darkness becomes too much, and the light disappears as if gone forever, but at others, it reappears, burning brightly anew, and you can hold out some hope for Charlie Parker and his quest. <br />I cannot praise this novel highly enough. The resolution, and the way in which it is all brough together is brilliant, and the final solution shocking. <br />Connolly, with this book and the last created possibly the most chilling villain in the religious fanatic Reverend Aaron Faulkner, and in this book he is even more chilling than before. He simply oozes evil. This time, he is out to get Parker, and he is going to use killer Cyrus Nairn, recently released from the wing of his prison, to execute that revenge. It is a truly chilling book, with a wonderful plot, and a colourful cast of characters, including Angel and Louis, who are back in full force. This time we learn a little about why they are who they are. <br />From the excellent prologue to the epilogue this book is a sucess on every level. Connolly just gets better and better. If you haven't read him yet, you're missing out.	2002-12-30
1289038:US	40684262	RTRJOKUPIWTBK	0553275100	107088899	The Butcher's Theater	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Excellent serial killer book	This is a brilliant serial killer novel, not just for it's plot (which is actually somewhat run of the mill) but mainly for it's engrossing setting, Jerusalem. I've not read a fictional book set here before, and i found this new experience thoroughly engrossing and interesing. The descriptions about the culture were informative, and again very interesting, and gave a sharp edge of realism to the novel. <br />The characters a great, each one is developed well, and their trypes are many and varied. The writing is fresh and pulls you in, although sometimes Kellerman does go off on a tangent a bit when he puts in a rather long paragraph about Israeli history, which while some of it is interesting, some of it is also unnecesary and dull.<br />I didn't find the political tone too distracting, as some appear to have done. I admit, he does have slightly biased leanings, but you can't exactly blame him. He is Jewish, after all.<br />This is a big book, but it speeds along quickly. It's compelling, and grows dull very little, which is surprising considering it's length. The plot is adequate, the psychology is great, the insights into foreign culture marvellous, and the finale is excellent.<br />the immense scope of this book is as large as the view from the top of Mount Scopus.	2002-12-30
1291721:US	40684262	R31P3FKP68HUWO	0312300875	100803201	Corpse Candle: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Hugh Corbett	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Possibly the best in this series	Doherty is possibly the most prolific author i've come across (in roughly 15 years since his first book was published, he's penned about 50 other novels), and while at times his books can lack that special something which sets some fiction apart from the rest, his books are undoubtedly entertaining, this one in particular, which is a novel that factor which some of his others lack. <br />When Abbot Stephen is found murdered, locked in his quarters from the inside, a puzzling mystery is indeed presented. Sir Hugh Corbett, keepers of the king's peace, is called in to investigate, and finds himself immersed in an investigation with far-reaching effects, and tentacles that spread many years into the past, to the Abbots old life, to tales of robber baron Sir Geofrey Mandeville's ghost galloping through the fens with a troop of spectrely horsemen, to rumours of the origins of the corpse candles, said to foretell the deaths of men, which hover and flicker at night above the marshes...<br />The characters in this book are very well characterised, the plot is tight and complex, and always puzzling. The writing style is invigorating. The solution is surprising and clever, and much blood is spilled before it arrives. This is without a doubt one of Doherty's very best novels, full of historical falvour, great characters, with a cracking plot. I reccomend this highly to any fan of crime fiction, not jsut historical fiction.	2002-12-27
1294217:US	40684262	R1CFA1XYVY6SZM	0586072594	274781723	An Advancement of Learning (Dalziel & Pascoe Novel)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	One of the gems from the early days	Some of Hill's earliest novels don't really compare to some of his later ones, but this is one of a couple of absolutely cracking exceptions. <br />It's got a wonderfully complex plot, some brilliant characters, a great setting, some surprising twists, and it is written wonderfully. Plus, Franny Roote is one of the best villains Hill has ever created. This one, indeed, is essential reading for those who intend to read the later books in the series, because it is Roote's first appearance, and he goes on to appear in quite a large role in all three of Hill most recent books (&quot;Arms and the Women&quot;, &quot;Dialogues of the Dead&quot;, and &quot;Death's Jest Book&quot;). It's also pivotal in that here Pascoe is first re-united with his former friend, and future wife, Ellie. <br />A body is found buried in the grounds of Holm Coultram College, and the police arrive, settling themselves in on campus. They meet a wonderful array of interesting and well-drawn interesting characters (students and lecturers alike), but then a new body turns up, and then another...<br />This is a wonderful crime novel, realistic and strangely chilling, that explores the underbelly of that bastion of the education system, the College, with its strong-willed students, and with it's lectureers all too ready to give in to temptation...<br />I would reccomend this novel to anyone, especially fans of the police procedural which not only entertains but challenges the intellect. The character, story, writing and setting are all marvellous. Fantastic. Certainly one of Hill's best.	2002-12-25
1294429:US	40684262	R1BV4UDQVCSPN3	0380714000	374862959	Gallows View: The First Inspector Banks Mystery	Books	5	21	22	N	N	High Quality Debut	This is a very high-quality debut novel by a writer whose popularity has sky-rocketed both in the UK and the US in the past couple of years. <br />The plot is not very challenging but it's realistic and very enjoyable. It's not too hard to get your head around either of the three main plots - but each is equally engaging - and sometimes that is just what i want in a crime novel. The storylines are thus: A peeping-tom is terrorising the women of the small Yorkshire town of Eastvale. A series of burglaries are being committed, first against the elderly, but then progressing to larger, more profitable homes. Also, an elderly woman is found dead in her house on Gallows View road...but are any of the cases linked?<br />Each plot is fascinating in it's way, especially the storyline involving the peeping tom, which i found to be a very original one to be among the main features of a novel. It becomes especially interesting when a psychologist is called in to give insight into the peepers character, and fans of the psychological aspects of crime are then presented with a different sort of criminal-psychology (other than that of the usual psychotic-killer psychology) which is refreshing and interesting. <br />Robinsons's writing style is addictive and very good, he has a strong sense of place, and he paints his characters really well. Inspector Banks in particular, the protagonist of the series, is especially well characterised and likeable. He also writes near-perfect dialogue. <br />I also liked the way the personal lives of the characters are weaved into the storyline more-so than in most novels, and were made an integral part of the story themselves. I hope he continues this trend in the other books...<br />All in all, i would reccomend this book to any fan of British police procedural novels (namely Ian Rankin, R.D Wingfield, Reg Hill, P.D. James, etc). It's realistic, enjoyable, with great characters and a satisfactory plot. I am looking forward immensely to reading more of this series...	2002-12-24
1295239:US	40684262	R253YINY35K38T	0752837885	780674124	The Jack Harvey Novels	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Reccomended to all Rankin admirers	This is a must for any fan of Ian Rankin. Each story is an ideal showcase of his talent when writing outside the restrictions set when he is writing his brilliant Inspector Rebus novels, and it is great to know that Rankin is no one-trick pony. Here are presented three early novels written under the name \\"Jack Harvey\\". <br />\\"Witch Hunt\\" is the first, and is a complex tale about the hunt by a varied group of British Agents to find \\"The Witch\\", an audacious and sucessful female terrorist. It's a while since i read this one, but i rememeber enjoying it a lot. The plot is complex, enjoyable, and the characters, a varied bunch, are all fascinating and good to read about. <br />\\"Bleeding Hearts\\", is probably the best of the three. It's a brilliantly tense story about a hitman. He carries out a job, but he's suspicious when the police arrive much sooner than expected, as if someone's tipped them off...Who's tried to set him up? Why? He has to find out. This is a well written book, and an excellent thriller. It's pace is great, it solution is unexpected and shocking. It is quite a feat that Rankin makes us like the lead character (the hit-man) who is actually a very likeable man, miles more than the Investigator who is after him, who is highly dislikeable. I enjoyed this one a great deal. <br />\\"Blood Hunt\\", the final story, i also enjoyed a great deal. I sped through it and, as i say, enjoyed it immensely, but writing now, i can remember very little of it. It's basically about an ex-SAS man who'se journalist brother is murdered, so he sets out on a quest to discover why. Cue all sorts of mysterious characters, conspiracies, and plot twists, up until an exciting showdown on what i recall as a forested island. <br />All in all, each tale is probably not the top of the genre (save Bleeding Hearts) but the writing is first-class, the characters are very strong, and it's very interesting for fans of Rankin to see him moving within other areas. <br />(NB: Gordon Reeve, the protagonist of Blood Hunt, is the same Gordon Reeve who was the killer in the first Rebus novel, Knots and Crosses. However, BH is a sort of \\"parrallell\\" novel, one in which Reeve never became a killer. the events of Knots never occured, and it's interesting to see a new face to Gordon Reeve, a character we fell we already know...)	2002-12-23
1295801:US	40684262	R1R72OU25H6E1Q	0752837885	780674124	The Jack Harvey Novels	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Reccomended to all Rankin admirers	This is a must for any fan of Ian Rankin. Each story is an ideal showcase of his talent when writing outside the restrictions set when he is writing his brilliant Inspector Rebus novels, and it is great to know that Rankin is no one-trick pony. Here are presented three early novels written under the name \\"Jack Harvey\\". <br />\\"Witch Hunt\\" is the first, and is a complex tale about the hunt by a varied group of British Agents to find \\"The Witch\\", an audacious and sucessful female terrorist. It's a while since i read this one, but i rememeber enjoying it a lot. The plot is complex, enjoyable, and the characters, a varied bunch, are all fascinating and good to read about. <br />\\"Bleeding Hearts\\", is probably the best of the three. It's a brilliantly tense story about a hitman. He carries out a job, but he's suspicious when the police arrive much sooner than expected, as if someone's tipped them off...Who's tried to set him up? Why? He has to find out. This is a well written book, and an excellent thriller. It's pace is great, it solution is unexpected and shocking. It is quite a feat that Rankin makes us like the lead character (the hit-man) who is actually a very likeable man, miles more than the Investigator who is after him, who is highly dislikeable. I enjoyed this one a great deal. <br />\\"Blood Hunt\\", the final story, i also enjoyed a great deal. I sped through it and, as i say, enjoyed it immensely, but writing now, i can remember very little of it. It's basically about an ex-SAS man who'se journalist brother is murdered, so he sets out on a quest to discover why. Cue all sorts of mysterious characters, conspiracies, and plot twists, up until an exciting showdown on what i recall as a forested island. <br />All in all, each tale is probably not the top of the genre (save Bleeding Hearts) but the writing is first-class, the characters are very strong, and it's very interesting for fans of Rankin to see him moving within other areas. <br />(NB: Gordon Reeve, the protagonist of Blood Hunt, is the same Gordon Reeve who was the killer in the first Rebus novel, Knots and Crosses. However, BH is a sort of \\"parrallell\\" novel, one in which Reeve never became a killer. the events of Knots never occured, and it's interesting to see a new face to Gordon Reeve, a character we fell we already know...)	2002-12-23
1297009:US	40684262	RJNT47HTWWHD	0747250618	870906807	The Last Templar (A Medieval West Country Mystery)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Interesting, but at times dull	This is a relatively sound debut novel, certainly in terms of the characters involved. They are well developed, full, realistic and likeable. Also, the writing style is good and easy to read, but too much exposure to it makes me find it ever so slightly dull, but that might just be due to the plot, which i didn't find to be very interesting. <br />It all seems rather repetative. A murder, then another murder, then some treking off into the forest, more murder, more treking, more treking... It's not very original or inspiring, it's dull at times, and isn't interesting enough to compell you to read on and find the solution. However, you should. It is at the last fifty pages where the book picks up and improved quite a bit. Each solution provided is unexpected and well delivered, and they add well-needed complexity to the plot, which wasn't there before.<br />Overall, this book is a bit drawn out for it's content, although the style and characters are enjoyable, and the plot is dull at times, but enjoyable at others. As a start to a supposedly very good series, it's not all the good, but it's necessary to read it so that you understand the back-story. My advice is probably to buy it, but skim it. That way, it'll probably seem very enjoyable.	2002-12-21
1304379:US	40684262	R70Z6KTKLZGPY	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	5	1	1	N	N	once, twice, three times a brilliant thriller	It's 9 AM on New Year's Eve when a killer known as The Digger enters a Washington DC subway station and fires a silenced machine gun into the crowd, killing many, and then escapes in the confusion caused by his crime. Shortly after, the Mayor's office receives a note... $20 million must be paid or even more killing will occur, at 4 PM, 8 PM, and midnight, each massacre occurring in a similarly crowded location...<br />The ransom is left at the place instructed, yet no one comes to collect it. Then, a hit-and-run victim is identified as the mastermind behind the operation, and all of a sudden there is no way of stopping the crazed gunman from killing again, and again, and again... <br />All the FBI has to go on in the note, so they call in the help of Parker Kincaid, a retired forensic document examiner, supposed to be seeing the New Year in with his kids. At first he refuses, but then a change of heart brings him into the investigation and closer to pure psychotic madness than he has ever before been...<br />This is yet another fantastic novel from Jeffery Deaver, packed full of surprises and brilliant characters. (Lincoln Rhyme even makes a brief appearance!) Deaver's plot moves at brilliant pace, and it's fiendishly clever and wholly exciting. It may not be incredibly believable, but I don't read his books because they're realistic. I read them because I know that I will be treated to a completely engrossing, shocking, roller-coaster-ride of a thriller that never slows down right to the final pages (besides, when reading of acts of atrocious murder, it is not comforting to think \\"wow, this is realistic!\\"). And with The Devil's Teardrop, Deaver delivers the goods in spades. The book has more twists than the Gordion Knot. Indeed, the final fifty pages contain more action and surprises than most 400+ page novels.<br />The Devil's Teardrop is a book I would unhesitatingly recommend to any thriller fan, as would I almost any book by Jeffery Deaver. He is one of the fewwriters who supply EVERYTHING I require in a book, and this is one guaranteed to keep you awake until the small hours.	2002-12-15
1304857:US	40684262	R2GXOR1ZBKWQFA	0091794463	596030198	The babes in the wood	Books	5	7	10	N	N	More from Rendell on top form	This has got to be one of the best Wexford tales RR has written yet. <br />It is brilliantly written, as always, and there is a wonderful cast of characters, all of whom we almost invariably either like or despise. Wexford is on fine form, and he is fascinating as ever. His wry observations of life, and his opinions (while we may not agree with them always) make him seem very human, and he is a very interesting characters for us to see the story through the eyes of. Once again, Burden tags along, and provides an edge of distinct grey in his character. However, this time he doesnt get quite as much of a role as he has in the past. <br />The plot is original and absolutely fascinating. The way it unfolds is unfalteringly engrossing, and even though this is no thriller, its still a huge pageturner and its intriguing, exciting, and Ruth Rendell builds layer upon layer of nice plot turns into the story. <br />In the beginning, we are presented with an almost inexplicable set of human behaviours, and, through the events of her plot, Rendell excellently explains why people sometimes act in such strange ways, which is part of the reason why this book is so fascinating. the mystery contains many more levels than just the &quot;who?&quot; or &quot;how?&quot;, but she delves deep into the character's psyche's, giving reason to every single characters often strange actions. Finding out &quot;why&quot; people do such strange things is almost as compelling as the mystery itself. <br />Along the way, we are also presented with some more brilliant story from wexford's own family life. Topping the book off is the fact that Kingsmarkham is flooding, which gives the story an extra layer of originality and interest, and also allowing her plot to go down different, more unconventional avenues. <br />The final conclusion is unexpected and satisfying. <br />I can't wait for what she has to offer us next year. Ruth Rendell's crown is showing absolutely no signs of tarnishing, even after all the many, many years she's been wearing it.	2002-12-14
1312763:US	40684262	R1QCNOHS6LPWLO	0446609145	559013514	Void Moon	Books	3	2	5	N	N	can't muster enthusiasm for it	i was very disappointed with this one. I just couldn't get into it at all. I didn't find myself at all &quot;connected&quot; to the main character, and she didn't seem very real to me at all. And, as soon as i felt i might be warming to her, Connelly takes the focus off her and puts it on a new, disalikeable character, and from then on skims between the two. I couldn't get excited about the crime at all, and the plot i found completely uninspiring. The writing was undoubtedly good, and there were some nice quirks in the plot to stop it sinking to cliche, and, as always with Connelly, the plot did seem very real and authentic. <br />The only other Connelly book i didn't have much enthusiasm for was Trunk Music, which was also set in Vegas. With this book, Connelly does a MUCH better job of describing Vegas, and i found that i quite liked the passages when the city seemed to begin to breath in all its glitzy commerciality. <br />The book does improve as it goes along, but not a great deal. The ending scenes are certainly good and there are a couple of really sophisticated twists which improve it, and there are one or two parts along the way i did enjoy a lot, but overall, i was disappointed.	2002-12-08
1314342:US	40684262	RAJYOHJJRB0OT	0345428064	630610345	Remote Control	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent. Enjoyable and exciting	this is the first of his i've read, and i was suitably impressed. Nick Stone strikes me somewhat as a more realist, more modern James Bond, an ex-SAS man, he now works for the &quot;deniable operations&quot; unit of the British secret service. <br />The book is well written, and easy to read. the pace is fast, the plot is exciting and never lets up. the action is constant, and the ending is full of surprises. <br />Stone is a likeable &quot;hero&quot;, and seems very human. His relationship with Kelly, the young girl he is trying to save, is touching and at times very sad. The book has a fierce realism, borne from the fact that McNab has been there, done that. <br />I would reccomend it.	2002-12-06
1324013:US	40684262	RA544F0G3ICFB	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	5	6	19	N	N	Fascinating!!!	This book is absolutely fascinating, not just for PC's invetigation into Jack the Ripper, but for her absolutely spellbinding descriptions and explorations of Victorian Society. She writes about the period as if she experienced it herself, displaying a deep understanding of the time, and a great knowledge of the era shown in the many, many magical details she incorporates into the writing, which simply make the book come alive. She makes every aspect of the book so damn interesting, and so i did find it very hard to put down (even for non-fiction, which can rarely be termed \\"exciting\\")<BR>Aside from her brilliance at describing Victorian life, she argues her case for Jack the Ripper's identity very well, inserting so many small pieces of evidence in with the more major ones that the reader will find it very hard to ignore the strong possibility that Walter Sickert was Jack the Ripper. After all, it is practically impossible that all the many, many pieces of circumstance and just coincidental. Even if a few are, many will still stand and implicate Sickert as the Ripper. <br />I have to say, i am not convinced Sickert is the Ripper, though. (only about 85%) But then, i will NEVER be convinced of the true identity of the Ripper, because the crimes are now so old it is impossible that we will ever know for absolute certain, no matter how strong the cases for several of the suspects are. It is possibly, therefore, a little pretentious of the publishers to proclaim \\"Case Closed\\", but then, of course, if they weren't convinced themselves, or prepared to pretend they were convinced, then this book would carry very little credibility. <br />I'm very impressed with the huge volumes of research Cornwell must have done. Ity really shows, not only in how much info she has amassed about Sickert's life, and trhe lives of those around him, but in the masses of period detail. <br />It is incredibly unfair that people have criticised this book so much. It may not be conclusive, but no Jack the Ripper book ever will be. People immediately jump at her throat claiming there is proof that \\"Sickert was in France during the killings\\", but not once has anyone mentioned what this proof actually is, where it can be found, etc. And, honestly, does anyone think that this book would EVER have been published if it could be proved conclusively that Sickert was not even in the country at the time? Of course it wouldn't have been. And thus, it cannot be proved. <br />This is a fascinating book, especially in her analysis of the Ripper letters as compared to Sickert's, and Sickert's artwork when compared to the crime scenes (which were seen by very very few people). the evidence of the guestbook is particularly interesting. Also compelling is the psychological portrait Cornwell paints of Sickert, from what she has learned about his actions and the events of his life. All in all, his personality just \\"clicks\\" when you think of how similar it is to those of killers already caught...<br />Not necesarrily conclusive, but fascinatingly written, and Cornwell presents a good case.	2002-11-29
1325552:US	40684262	R2Y5IYWK3WK77P	0312306555	899312246	A Restless Evil: A Mitchell and Markby Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another excellent book	The standard of her Mitchell and Markby books remains so consistently high that it surprises me. Each book has been interesting, enjoyable, well-written, with a good plot, and very different to preceeding books. This time around, human bones are found in Lower Stovey woods, and Alan Markby, charged with investigating the remains, considers the possibility that they may well have something to do with a serial rape case in the same area 22 years ago. A case which he investigated, and which he failed to solve. But then, he is brought smack bang into the present when an apparently motiveless killing of a local woman occurs in the village. And the detecting begins in earnest. <br />A really strong aspect of this series is the way that the relationship between Meredith and Alan has developed throughout it. It takes new turns with each book. It is what often makes the series stand out against second-rate claimants to the Queen of the Village crime novel (as Ann Granger surely is) Watching how it develops is really enjoyable, and it amazes me that AG is still able to keep it interesting after 14 books. <br />The plot is good, although the only flaw this book has it perhaps that there are not really enough viable suspects to allow us to guess, or the end to come as a shock. However, this is still a cracking book (i can only liken reading an Ann Granger book to reading an episode of Midsomer Murders) very exciting and interesting. It throws up questions, even in its blinkered spectrum of society, questions about people, the world we live in, religion (and its future) and so many other issues. <br />There is a strong cast of backing characters (one of her strongest yet) who are interesting and carry the plot along well. The writing is first-class, and Ann Granger's world tangs with reality. <br />This is a near-perfect example of everything a good classic english detective novel should be. If this is your thing, definitely comes highly reccomended.	2002-11-27
1327031:US	40684262	R2AWQ63RZ02YO0	0446600458	837706621	The Thomas Berryman Number	Books	3	2	3	N	N	rather uninspiring...	i can't understand why it won the Edgar. I simply cannot see the reason. It is almost incomprehensible to me that a table of judges could sit down and decide that this was the best book of the year. Really? Were there NO other crime books published in that year?<br />It's a pageturner, and the plot is relatively exciting. The writing is simplistic but better, in terms of quality, than some of his recent books. However, the characters are thing, we never learn much about them at all, the plot is not awfully well explained, the time period keeps jolting about, so the book doesn't flow at all. it all just seems like a lot os misjointed thoughts and ideas put together in random order. The ending is abrupt and somewhat anticlimatic.<br />As a debut, this is not all that good. It's not near the quality of his later novels, and i would only reccomend it to longstanding fans who wish to read every single thing he's written, just so they can say they have. Who knows, you might even like it. It's possible, i suppose.	2002-11-26
1335708:US	40684262	R1IHGBB2MQ4L0O	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A return to form! Fans, buy it!	Washington, D.C. police detective Cross is ready to resign when his friend John Sampson comes to his door, asking Alex for one final favor. One of Sampson's oldest friends has been found guilty of viciously killing three women, but Sergeant Ellis Cooper swears blind that he is innocent. And Sampson believes him, despite the mountain of evidence against the solider. Alex Cross, too, becomes convinced that Cooper is innocent, and his search for the truth becomes even more urgent when he uncovers evidence of a series of suspicious murder convictions, and of the existence of three brutal and efficient killers who call themselves the Three Blind Mice. But soon, Cross will discover that he has another foe to reckon with, another killer: the Fourth Blind Mouse.<br />Written in James Patterson's signature prose (simple, shallow, super-fast) this book is practically a non-stop thrill-fest. It's surely one of his best Alex Cross books in years, free as it is from many of the elements which have typified his recent ones, and made them rather annoying. (Cross \\"falling in love\\" with the lead female of almost every book, as an example.) Instead, this time Cross appears to be settling down.<br />The story is nicely structured, enjoyable, surprising, and at times rather original. It's refreshing to see Sampson again, as he has been curiously absent recently, and there are also some wonderful developments with Alex's family (and friends) which will probably please most fans, and bring a few more levels to the book. The plot moves at break-neck pace, and contains several good twists which keep the book fresh, and the reader turning those pages right up the finale.<br />With an ending that signposts a slightly new direction in the series, this book should encourage many Patterson fans who thought he was losing his touch. It's by no means a perfect book, though. It should be at least 50 pages longer, the characters should be more developed, the dialogue at times is cringe-worthy, and the \\"thin\\" writing make the book sometimes feel more like the outline of a novel rather than a complete one. However, after some recent disappointing efforts, this book is a welcome, enjoyable read. It is undeniably entertaining.he \\"thin\\" writing make the book sometimes feel more like the outline of a novel rather than a complete one. However, after some recent disappointing efforts, this book is a welcome, enjoyable read. It is undeniably entertaining.	2002-11-18
1338293:US	40684262	R2CK0TXUM74165	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic!!!	this is possibly the best pulse-pounding thriller i've read so far this year. In terms of pace, plot, character, it is brilliant. <br />This easily rises above most kidnap thrillers, with Ile's addition of extra concepts in the plot, extra twists and added complications. He then sets himself the rather difficult task of trying to structure his plot around all these additions and extra problems, and he does it with ease, seamlessly. The plot runs completely smoothly and completely credible, and there isnt even the tiniest of holes in sight. <br />The characters are very well drawn...very human. Sometimes, the way he draws his characters reminds me of Stephen King. Iles is very good at creating normal people caught up in unusual situations. And he is also very good at writing children, something not all authors are. <br />The plot is original and exciting, his writing is very immediate, and puts us right in the thick of the action. the story moves at great pace, flicking brilliantly between the three alternating scenes (Will Jennings, trapped in a hotel room with one of the conspirators, Karen Jennings trapped at home with the ring-leader, and little Abby Jennings, who is being held in a cabin in the middle of a forest with a disturbingly gentle psychopath...), keeping the pages flying past. <br />this is an excellent thriller. My favourite book by Iles. (So far! I've still got three to read.)	2002-11-16
1340141:US	40684262	R21LSYZJQMR1X2	0312958781	521800603	Tooth and Nail (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	remarkable	this may be one of the earliest Rebus novels, but it is without shadow of a doubt one of the best. Ian Rankin here presentes an excellent serial killer novel, published around the time when the sub-genre itself was really on it's infancy. (After all, there weren't all that many serial killer novels around in 1991) It's a very assured, seasoned, mature novel, somewhat before it's time. <br />Rebus is a great character, and here his development continues. However, we are presented with a great twist to the normal formula here...Rebus has been sent to London to work on a case, and the fish-out-of-water effect really works very well. Instead of the in-depth and realistic descriptions of Edinburgh, we now see London through Rebus, a visitors eyes, and Rankin proves that his evocations of place are not merely limited to Edinburgh. He describes London excellently, and observing Rebus wandering round the city like a lost soul (until he realises that, in terms of problems, London is basically the same as his home turf, when he seems to get more comfortable with the place) is really interesting. <br />The plot is great, and it twists and turns subtly but excellently, with Rankin misleading the reader like an illusionst all the way to the end as to the real identity of the killer. He shocks and surprises again and again, until a brilliantly exciting climax, a car chase through the busy streets of London. <br />Along the way, Rebus meets some brilliant characters, several of whom i would love to see again in the future. George Flight, his opposite number in London, is a wonderfully drawn creation. He is a likeable man, and a great copper. He is darawn well, and i liked the way Rankin shied away from the cliche of making him an unlikeable, difficult to work with, arrogant and not very good police-officer. Instead, we are prsented with a policeman equal to Rebus in ability, whose talents compliment each other well. Another great character is Liza Frazer, the young psychologist who volunteers to help Rebus draw up a profile of the killer. <br />All in all, this is a brilliant book. It suceeds on every single leve, and while the end does seem a little rushed, and i would rather the book were a bit longer, this book ranks among Rankin's best work. Which, considering the calibre of almost all his books, means that this book is very, very good indeed.	2002-11-14
1342108:US	40684262	R19NRDGTL5NBW4	055329170X	706833371	Time Bomb (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	another fine entry	this is another fine entry in the series. it has an interesting, original and engrossing plot. it is well-written, with some fine characters. there are lots of twists, and the mystery goes a lot deeper than it at first seems...<br />however, there is getting to be a slight problem with this series. many of the books are about 50 pages too long, and Alex Delaware, while a very likeable protagonist, at times does tend to get rather dull...I think this series would be much more sucessfull if it were to be written in the third rather than first person. taht way we could have more than jsut AD's perspective, and it would make for slightly more varies reading. And in a series with night on 15 entries, variation is something you need. <br />very enjoyable book, i would reccomend to almost anyone looking for a good mystery. you don't need to have read the rest of the series, either.	2002-11-13
1345984:US	40684262	R2JPW7GEWE2JM1	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	6	7	N	N	He's still got it! (Well, who ever doubted it.)	This is another excellent book in the Discworld series. It's not the best, by some way, but it's still an incredibly good read. <br />Sam Vimes is cast back in time to old Anhk-Morpork. Whilst there he must drag a vicious killer back to the present, stop a bloody revolution, and teach the young Vimes how to be a good copper, otherwise when he returns, he may find himself faced with no future at all. <br />This book is considerably darker than some of Pratchett's works, and there's not quite as much humour as normal, which doesnt really matter, because it is still there in part. (Indeed, the way Nobby Nobbs imparts news of husband's death's to their new widows is posibly the funniest thing i have ever read.) However, it's still absolutely chock-full of the philosophical musings which lift his books so far most fantasy novels, indeed, almost ALL novels. Not only are his books immensely enjoyable, funny and well written, they make you think, and they say a great great deal about the world we live in today, by using the Discworld societies as mirrors of our own. <br />Some people say that some of books of the last five or so years havent been as good as some of those from his &quot;middle period&quot;, i however, couldn't disagree more. In the past few years, terry Pratchett ahs produced some of his absolutely best work, from the best of the entire series, &quot;The Truth&quot;, to the cleverst work of detective fiction i've ever come across, &quot;Feet of Clay&quot;. <br />This book has another cracking plot with some excellent characters (it was great to see some of the characters we now know so well, in their younger days. Nobby, Fred, etc. Indeed, the young Havelock Vetinari provides an absolutely brilliant performance.) and it's nie to have a window into Anhk-Morporks history, however, after the excellent first 200 pages, the book slows down a bit and gets slightly, dare i say it, mundane, for a very short while, before it picks itself up again and goe son to another great ending. <br />Terry Pratchett really deserves some kind of award for this, and every book he's wrriten. Indeed, with Terry Pratchett writing a book a year, no other fantasy/sci-fi writer would stand a chance.	2002-11-09
1351876:US	40684262	R110DE7A31P64F	0312194188	378064608	Ghostly Murders: The Priest's Tale of Mystery and Murder As He Goes on Pilgrimage from London to Canterbury	Books	5	0	0	N	N	first class historical mystery AND ghost story	not only is this is avery good historical mytsery, full of insightful and interesting detail, but it is also a rather chilling ghost story. <br />the writing is succinct and evocative (if not particularly artful). Doherty's prose is very readable, and the characters he draws are very real, especially Philip the Priest, the man at the centre of this spectrely tale. <br />The plot is great, and it has a couple of really nice twists and unexpected shocks. It moves very quickly, and doesnt get bogged down at all in any unueccessary detail. Every single sentence is germaine to the plot. <br />If you like authentic-feeling historical mysteries, this is a good book to choose. (Pleasingly, it is now merely one in a series of six similar tales.) And, if you like ghost stories, this is a good choice, especially if you want a nice spin to the story.	2002-11-04
1352393:US	40684262	R20LQOWOPHBSF6	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	where did all those pages go?	This is another very very enjoyable book from Stephen King, master of the sprawling apocalyptic horror novel painted on ridiculously large canvas. This novel is no different. t's a many-paged volume that you might at first blak at reading, but rest assured, all those pages whizz by in a flash. <br />Several things aid this (aside form a fast-paced and exciting plot): an easy writing style, lots of characters, all fully formed, who are always freshening up the material because it means that there is always something different going on. The relatively short sections of the book encourage the reader to read more. And the fact that the book is just plain engrossing. <br />The characters are all very real, very human. (Unfortunately, the one flaw in King's books is that most of the characters in all his books remind me of many that have appeared before, just with different names. His characters remain basically the same. But, with always using such a large cast, this cant exactly be avoided.) Many of them are not always likeable (but still they remian painfully human) and because we dont always like them, i suppose that makes the ending a bit easier to cope with. However, there are a couple of really likeable characters ti balance it out. <br />This, while being an excellent, rather creepy, book, is also a bit depressing, though. So, if you're not feeling well-disposed in your attititudes toward humanity at any point, that is not the time to read this book!	2002-11-04
1359440:US	40684262	RCHXZF8KNUOO0	0553802585	383484197	I, Richard	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Entertaining collection	Three of the stories in this collection have actually appeared before, in a book entitled &quot;The Evidence Exposed&quot;. (These titles are, &quot;Exposure&quot; (although the story featured here is a slightly rewritten, altered version) &quot;I, Richard&quot;, and &quot;The Surprise of His Life&quot;. <br />If you're looking for stories of substance or great depth, this probably isn't the collection to go for. <br />&quot;Exposure&quot; has a good premise...this second version is much better than the first, but it is still disappointing. the ending is anticlimatic, and the motive for the killing is not actually explained. The plot lacks great depth, as does the character developement. (Which is a surprise from George...who is usually the mistress of character and plot development.)<br />&quot;The Surprise of His Life&quot; has a nice twist to the end, and the main character is interesting if a bit dislikeable. However, the story once again lacks development. The same can be said of &quot;I, Richard&quot;. This one is a very interesting piece (contains good information on English history) but both its central characters arent at all likeable, and overall the story is too long and drawn out. However, the ending is a nice display of irony.<br />The two new stories in the collection are far more sucessful. &quot;Good Fences Aren't Always Enough&quot; is a very good story. It's interesting, original, and more than a little creepy. It's well written with a good atmosphere, and good characters. Theres also a nice subtle sting in the tail, which works very well. It's certainly my favourite of the collection. <br />&quot;Remember, I'll Always Love You&quot; is another strong story. It's got a very good plot, and the central character is well drawn even if the others are not. It has nice twists, and is unpredictable and interesting to read. However, at times George shifts the story a little too much, perhaps leaving the reader slightly dizzy. <br />All that said, all of these stories entertained me. I enjoyed them, and i am glad i read the collection. Some of them may not fulfill their potential or match with the quality of other short stories by other writers in this genre, but that they are enjoyable, quick reads is undeniable. To any fan of Elizabeth George, i do reccomend this collection.	2002-10-29
1359822:US	40684262	R15MT5EZU3XVX1	0671047507	6554885	Bloody River Blues (Location Scout)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	relatively solid tale from the back catalogue	i've been enjoying these early thrillers from Deaver a lot. (especially his RUNE series) this one is no exception. Its not exactly high-brow, but its a fast, entertaining read, as all his early thrillers have so far been. They have good plots, which are not very complex, and are easy to get your head around, they are also full of twists, as is the norm with Deaver. <br />however, this one is a tiny bit disappoinging, because the cahracters are not as fleshed out as he is capable of. <br />but, the writing is very good once again, the plot sustains interest, its a quick and enjoyable read, and is reccomended to all fans of Jeffery Deaver.	2002-10-29
1364846:US	40684262	R2IOQ4MAT65BDH	0446607274	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best since The Concrete Blonde	This is a very very good book...In my opinion, COnnelly's best book since the excellent &quot;The Concrete Blonde&quot; (although not QUITE as good...)<br />The plot is excellent, and it moves with great pace. It's exciting, well constructed, and a mystery to the last. Connelly just carries on pulling surprises out of the bag right through the book. <br />Bosch is on fine form, although i seemed to get the sense that he's mellowing a little...(although, upon the ending, that notion was dispelled slightly!) The developments in his relationship with Eleanor are surprisingly moving, and i woudl like to read a lot more about that side of his personal life...<br />This is a first-class crime novel, in line with some of the best in the genre. (Which is encouraging for me to say, as i was rather disappointed and, frankly, a bit bored, by his last Bosch, Trunk Music.)<br />you want my advice, you read this book.	2002-10-24
1370353:US	40684262	R1DJS8BYS0TE3P	006103200X	296487910	Over Tumbled Graves	Books	5	0	1	N	N	If serial killings are your thing, try this 4.5* effort	As far as plot goes, this book holds nothing new. But then, few serial killer novels do, because its very hard to come up with something really original within the genre. However, where this book excells is with its character development. As other reviewers have stated, the characters within this book are drawn very well, with great depth and nice touches of realism.<br />The plot is structured well, and the writing is good, but sometimes it feels slightly underdeveloped. The bits that are developed, are develoepd well, but there is a lot of material here which goes unheralded...He could have said a lot more, and made the plot much more affecting.<br />The sense of place is another strong factor...its described well, and adds to the novel.<br />Overall, this is a worthwhile read. The plot contains nothing to distinguish it from anything else out there, so on that score its decidedly average, but its a very well written book, with some very real and well-develoepd characters. (Although, sometimes, the plot suffers a tiny bit form this...)	2002-10-20
1373979:US	40684262	R1M1L6ZSKIIQH7	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent legal thriller	This is a brilliant thriller, full of threat and political intrgue, topped off with some great action and well drawn, likeable characters. <br />Iles' writing is good, and creates a great atmosphere, and he writes about Natchez and the south very well indeed, capturing perfectly the issues and feelings of its people. <br />relationships are handled well and realistically, dialogue is good. plot is strong and well structured, and moves at a good pace. its exciting, tense, suspenseful and thrilling. The ending is especially good. the final trial scene is one of the best i've come across...much praise goes to Greg Iles for this book. <br />Ive read several of his books now, and this, along with Dead Sleep, is my favourite.	2002-10-16
1376624:US	40684262	RL9ZKFDVGBRAE	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	5	23	27	N	N	One of the best in the series	She was found on Sunday August 3rd, 1969, Grayson Quarry off California's Highway 1. The woman was young, her wrists were bound, she had multiple stab wounds and her killer had slashed her throat. After months of investigation, the case remains as stone-cold as it was on the day her body was found. The police didn't even find out her name.<br />It is 18 years later, and the two officers who found the body are now both ill and close to retirement. However, desiring one last crack at the case, if only just to give the poor woman a name, they turn to Kinsey Millhone for help. She is curious, and agrees to work with them. But what starts out as an investigation trying to find the identity of a dead woman, soon becomes a dangerous hunt for her killer. <br />Some fans who may have been disappointed by her last effort, \\"P is for Peril\\", will feel much warmer feelings towards this novel, which is one of the best books in the entire \\"alphabet\\" series. It's complex, intriguing, written in sharp, efficient prose, with a great cast of characters. Kinsey is on fine form once again, and there are some real treats in store for constant-readers of Grafton, in the shape of more insights into Kinsey's family and background. She's a likeable, resourceful hero, and I am incredibly impressed that Grafton is still able to develop her main character with each new book, whilst lesser writers tend to burn out at around the five book mark. <br />Grafton is adept at creating casts of likeable, essentially very normal, well-developed characters who keep her books moving and her plots flowing smoothly. The California she evokes is one of a mostly pleasant place full of people going about their usual business, but in all her books there is a subtle sense of darkness and evil lying beneath the genial façade, which often adds a good chill. <br />Sue Grafton is one of the most reliable authors working today. She can always be counted upon to produce an enjoyable, compelling mystery, which is exactly what she has done here. \\"Q is for Quarry\\" is a high-class book with a rock-solid plot, and almost certainly one of her very best.	2002-10-14
1377136:US	40684262	R37SBJD7S16R11	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Doesn't always work	John Waters is a happily married man, with a daughter he loves very much. But one day, something happens to shatter all that. A beautiful stranger speaks to him across a football field, and sends him spiralling back into the past, to a time in his life that he would rather forget. <br />Mallory Candler and John used to be an item, until one day her overwhelming passion threatened to destroy them both, and he had to break it off, choosing stability and security over passion and ecstasy with the beautiful Mallory. She, like John, wen ton to marry and have children, until one day all that ended when she was found raped and murdered on a New Orleans pier. Now, Mallory seems to have returned in the form of Eve Sumner...Eve bears not just Mallory's smile and intense sexuality, but she also knows things about their relationship that only Mallory could. Then, when they cross paths once more at a party and she whispers to him \\"You're not imagining anything, John. It's me. Call me.\\" Waters' soul chills. <br />Soon, he becomes involved with Eve, and she tells him things that seem scarcely within the realms of belief...But to John Waters, strike unavoidably true.<br />Beware: To read this novel, you need an open mind. If you have one, you will be fine. Because, whilst this is a suspense novel, and to some extents (although not many) also a mystery, there are several strong elements of the supernatural. These elements work well, and help in the formation of this original, engaging tale. It's got a good, reasoned pace, which follows some nice, likeable characters. Ordinary people made fascinating by the events that happen to them, and how they act. It's written in concise, flowing prose, with nice descriptions of the South, and is a good study on the nature of obsession and all-consuming passion. <br />While this is certainly an enjoyable, diverting read, I do have some mixed feelings about it. \\"Sleep No More\\" should most certainly be classified as a \\"supernatural thriller\\", to give the reader at least some idea of what they are in for. At times, the book seems a little thin. It needs a few good subplots injecting into it to build on the, sometimes, simple plot. However, my main foible is with the ending...The resolution is a little unsatisfying, when you consider that this is what the entire novel has been building up to. Also, the final \\"twist\\" which has its origins in the supernatural elements of the book, just seems far too convenient.<br />In the end, it's probably worth a read because it's enjoyable and very suspenseful, but don't expect it to be brilliant.	2002-10-14
1386412:US	40684262	REYYU05VV8BUZ	0553285920	871285064	Silent Partner	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Very strong	This is another very strong entry in his Delaware series. Reading them in order, i now find myself liking this book and Over the Edge, my previous favourite, equally. The plot is interesting and complex (sometimes a bit too complex...) and In my opinion this is one of the best books written about conflicting twins that i have ever come across. Alex Delaware is a consumate professional and a likeable protagonist, but I fear that if i were to read this entire series over a relatively short space of time, i would get rather tired of him. So i shant...i shall space the reading over these books out over time. <br />The characters are well drawn and realistic, and the plot is developed well and is very unpredictable. As well as the main mystery of events, there is another, equally engaging mystery within this book. And that is the character of Sharon Ransom. Why she is how she is, who she really is, why she acts as she does and who helped cause it, is as interesting as the main plot. <br />However, sometimes Kellerman's characters seem rather run of the mill, as does his writing style. Even though it is incredibly readable, it lacks anything really indivudal about it, and hsi tone sometimes seems far too detached. You never feel quite as emotionally connected to his characters as you would, say, in a book by James Lee Burke or Michael Connelly. But still, this is a good mystery, with a great sting in its tail.	2002-10-06
1387484:US	40684262	R1YLXZVMON2M94	0609610252	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rendell certainly isn't mellowing with age!	This is another absolute winner from Ruth Rendell, my favourite novelist of all time. Of all her books, this is possibly her very very best. It is an amazing portrait of damaged characters forced into dangerous situations, the results of which can only be a tragedy. She displays the catastrohpic inevitability of events already set in motion with a depressing and disturbing reality. It is unsetlling to think that already our lives could be on course for a crash, by perhaps being set to meet a character similar to those in her books...those characters whose smallest actiosn can bring their own worlds, and the worlds od those around them, falling to the ground.<br />She describes contemporary life excellently, and she draws her characters perfectly. Their downright weirdness is entirely realistic, which comes as a surprise, and a pleasure, as many authors are not able to write authentically and realisticaly about the kinds of characters that Rendell does.<br />The plot is complex, and at the end she draws all the strands tightly together with the ability of the seasoned and consumate professional that she is. It's a thrilling and entirely suspenseful book, the type of suspense that only Rendell seems capable of creating, via the slow yet enthralling unravelling of her plots. The addition of aspects of the supernatural into the plot only add another layer of chilliness and strangeness to this brilliant book. The mystery and supernatural threads compliment each other incredibly well. The climax is understated and shocking, leaving us, as do all the best books, wanting to know more about the characters and what is to happen to them.<br />It is also written so well that it should please not just any fan of Rendell, or just any kind of crime fiction, but anyone interested in more &quot;literary&quot; fiction. Rendell has deserved the Booker prize for many of her books, this one is no exception, and it is a great injustice that she will not get it. I long for the day when the literary world recognises the true talent of Ruth Rendell.	2002-10-05
1391080:US	40684262	R33OUA16W4LQJ2	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Now and then he produces a book like this....	In his time, Stephen King has produced some fantastic horror novels, but only a couple fantastic novels, full stop. &quot;Bag of Bones&quot;, for example. (Which is his masterpiece.) This book lurks somewhere in between the two categories. it is not quite a brilliant horror novel (more just very chilling) and it is not quite a brilliant novel. (Some of the characters don't sit quite right for one.) But, in my opinion, this book ranks among King's very best works. <br />The story is told with some very original and effective narrative devices, which work very effectively. He tells the tale in a number of &quot;voices&quot;, and each one is individual and well construcated. The plot is structured well, too. the writing is subtle, and the story teased out in such a way as suspense is created. <br />It attempts to explore several things: The fascination that the unkown, and also deadly things, have for us. The nature of stories, and the nature of relationships not bound by blood. It also serves as materful police procedural novel. The procedural aspects strike true, and work to give this novel yet another level. <br />Possibly not quite King's best book (as i say, &quot;Bag of Bones&quot; shall forever hold that acolade) but certainly up there with some of his greats.	2002-10-01
1395175:US	40684262	R20G61VO9P8DPC	0446600474	845960653	Season of the Machete	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Confusing, messy, poorly written. Enjoyable.	This is strange book...<br />A very early James Patterson, i had expected it to be more well written than some of his latest books. (As \\"See How They Run\\", another early effort, was) but no...it wasn't in fact, it was worse. Some of the sentences don't even make sense and soem of the turns of phrase are just plain weird. The dialogue, in parts, is so overemphasized it is unreadble. The plot rambles, and i defy anyone to actually tell me what on earth was going on. Patterson doesn't actually stop to explain ANYTHING. The characters are cardboard thin, and there are so many of them, and you are unclear of who they all are and what their role and whose side they are on, etc. The dates of all the events in the book just don't tally at all. (In the prologue, for example, there are two killings. the date is stated as 1980. When, about four chapters into the book, these killings are mentioned again, it says they took place in 1979.)<br />Overall, this is a completely confusing book. It'll take a really dedicated reader to actually be able to work out what it is all truly about. However, apart from that, it IS an enjoyable book. I sped through it, helped by Patterson's loose style. The plot, such as it is, moves incredibly quickly, and murder piles upon murder right up until the conclusion, which, i will admit, is certainly very good.<br />All in all, i cannot reccomend this book to anyone except fans of Patterson who wish to delve into these curios of his back-catalogue.	2002-09-28
1396958:US	40684262	R28YVGMY5XHM1M	0553584456	830233140	Mistress of Justice	Books	5	15	16	N	N	a real treat	these early Deaver re-issues are turning out as real gems among his back-catalogue. I can say with complete confidence that Jeffery Deaver has not once written a bad, unenjoyable book. <br />Deaver's writing style is concise and addictive. It's clever, quirky and enjoyable. His plots are well devised and well structured. They run smoothly and without a hitch. <br />This is a very good, very hig-class legal thriller, better than almost anything by John Grisham. the plot is complex and intriguing, and the lead character is very human and very likeable, with some very distinctive quirks which make her a pleasure to read about. <br />The book moves at great pace, and is a true page-turner. There are a couple of nice twists along the way, and, as is usual with Deaver, one final wallop right at the end. <br />Another very good book from Deaver...not quite his best, but i still reccomend that you read it. As i do with all his books.	2002-09-26
1400133:US	40684262	RWBFLHV1CTMY8	0743453344	607521541	The Killing Kind	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Best thriller you'll read this year	This is another amazing book by John Connolly. He builds on the characters once more, again revealing greater depth to Bird Parker's character. He gives us slightly more insight into Angel and Louis and because of the darkness of this book, the scenes in which they appear serve as some great relief.<br />Connolly's writing is sheer beauty. His manner of description evokes, with seeming ease, any atmosphere he wishes to create. His prose is lyrical, and his descriptions may stop you in your tracks just for a second while you roll them over in your mind, picturing the image perfectly. <br />In this novel, Connolly has created a wonderful plot, which seethes with an omnipresent, and almost omnipotent, evil and darkness. Also, he give us two of the best villains fiction has ever produced. Mr Pudd, the enforcer of a shady organisation known as \\"The Fellowship\\" who is violent, scary, completely without a drop of humanity, and The Reverend Aaron Faulkner, an egotistical religious maniac, head of a group known as the Aroostook Baptists. Faulkner is a completely venemous characters who just oozes poison from every action. Over the course of the novel, Parker, Angel and Louis, will come into contact with both these men, and this contact will try to drag them down into the depths of an equal hell. <br />The plot is much less complicated than his debut, Every Dead thing, and the entire novel is much more refined and focused, which adds immense power to the book. It's completely chilling and very scary (an effect aided by the way Connolly likes to blend in subtle elements of the supernatural in with his books) and, almost certainly, the best thriller that will be published in the US this year.	2002-09-23
1400630:US	40684262	R27DOGKR7PCSCF	0375704914	61936832	A Demon in My View	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A breathtaking novel	Ruth Rendell is unquestionably the best novelist in this, or any generation. Her stories of psychological suspense and downright sheer chillingness will, and deserve to, go down in history as some of the most artful novels ever written. And this, is one of her very very best.<br />The atmosphere is chilly and hostile, the plot and characters are disturbing and strange. She mixes the normal everyday tpicalities of life with the quirks in the mind of the mentally...different, brilliantly, so that the consequences are amazingly cathartic.<br />Disturbing, compelling, utterly absorbing, with a shock ending that is a masterpiece of irony, this is an amazing novel.	2002-09-23
1401002:US	40684262	R36MLYVYQ5PUUA	0399148388	422186484	Flint's Law	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Mandrake - four and half stars	\\"Mandrake\\" (I use the UK title of this book.) is a couple notches better than \\"Flint\\". While that was sometimes very confusing, with all the flitting back from past to present, and all the to-ing and fro-ing of the various fraudulent monies, and lots and lots of characters who all seem to meld into one. This one is far better. <br />It's still confusing, at times, but not nearly as much. The writing is brilliant...its incredibly compelling and powerful, written in a tense, brutally efficient and to-the-point style. The book speeds all over the globe, from the US to Croatia and the pace never lets up. <br />The characters are mercifully fewer, and are slightly better developed. the plot is complex and interesting. I can certainly reccomend this book.	2002-09-22
1401206:US	40684262	R31647L9JH48QJ	0452270707	925704924	A Fatal Inversion (Plume Fiction)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent!	This is another excellent book from Ruth Rendell...the plot creeps along like a wounded shadow, unsettling the reader as ONLY Rendell can. The characters are developed very well, quirks and all. <br />The writing is brilliant, and Rendell manages not just to make Wyvis Hall a brooding force over the novel, but almost a character all in itself. <br />the book is mysterious, suspenseful, beautifull written, with a powerful narrative drive, and with some really great twists along the way which challenge all our assumptions about what we have read. The final chapter is positively chilling.	2002-09-22
1408104:US	40684262	R20H93YNC09C18	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	5	9	N	N	not as gd as expected	I camr to this book full of incredibly high hopes...hopes of a moving, beautifully realised, original and well written book. Well, it was well written, and quite original, i suppose. <br />However, this book fails to deliver on some levels. I expectd to be moved...i was looking forward to be moved, and possibly shedding a tear or two...I expected to feel heartbreak at injustice and loss of potential of a young life, and the grief that surrounds that loss. However, this book is just to...sweet, for that. The premise is great, and the writing is first class, but Sebold, with  a few exceptions, fails to move us greatly. Theres just, to be honest, not a lot to be sad about. Nothing to evoke a real tear...Sebold does not have that way with words that some writers do...the ability to place the qords in jsut the right order to make the reader feel intense heartbreak and sadness. <br />Insted, this novel is too candyish. The Heaven never really strikes true, and some of the characters are just ghosts, you can never really grasp them in your mind. <br />It doesnt even say much about grief, as i had expected it to. It turns out, basically, to be simply a feel-good (for the most part) novel with a happy ending. More raw emotion is needed...more despair... more needs to be made of the sadness. That would make the book a lot more powerful, and me more inclined to write a glowing review. <br />It's not a bad book...in fact, for the most part its quite enjoyable, but it has such potential to be so much more than it actually is...<br />First 50 pages are great, as are the last 150. The middle is slightly less inspiring.	2002-09-15
1414002:US	40684262	RG2XYOOX4SBE2	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	5	0	0	N	N	good book by mc	this is another assured, interesting and enjoyable book by Michael Connelly. It's original (very, really), well written, and Terry McCaleb is a good, likeable lead character. Connelly developes the characters subtle relationships well in this book, the plot of which is incredibly original, and i have read almost nothing like it before. Fans of Connelly will like it, and so should all not-yet-fans of Connelly.	2002-09-09
1415799:US	40684262	R4IJV4DR7UEB	0553801929	562039873	Dark Horse	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Another great novel	Tami Hoag is probably (alongside Ruth Rendell) my very favourite female author. I love her plots, i love the way she sometimes mixes romance and suspense, i love her range (she's written everything from straight-romance to serial killer novels) i love her punchy writing style (she can come up with some really glittering sentences) and, most of all, i love the way she draws her characters as realistic, fully realised people. <br />This novel tells the story of a simple kidnapping, which evolves into something altogether more sinister and complex. The heroine is one Elena Estes, an ex-cop who, once upon a time, made a bad decision that cost a colleauge his life. She has retreated to the world she knew before, the world of horse rearing which she so loves. But then, one day, a young girl comes to ask her for help, and Estes finds herself unable to refuse, drawn into a web of intrigue and crime which depresses her, but that she feels must be fought against. <br />Estes is a brilliant character...(this is Hoag's first novel in the first person, and it works very well, by the way. Some authorsd find the transition ahrd...Hoag has found the way with ease.) She is likeable, quirky, and extremely entertaining throught the adventure. She more than makes up for the intense unlikeableness of many of the other characters. <br />Another wonderful (and moving) aspect of this book is the delightful youngster Molly Seabright, sister of the missing girl. She is a wonderful, wonderful presence and brightens the book in every single scene in which she appears. She is brilliantly and emotioanlly. Her innocence contrasts frighteningly with the darkness and crulety of many of the other characters and events. (In fact, some may find that there are a few too many unpleasant characters in this novel, and would prefer some more nice, likeable ones. At times it would have been great to have a few more nice people to read about, instead of the selfish and insular indivudals which populate thisnovel). However, these nasty characters all help to create a sense of fear and tension which fairly ratchets up, and towards the end blossoms with a sense of inevitable awfulness about to occur. <br />I will admit that no, this is not Tami Hoag's best book (i myself will always think that that is \\"Cry Wolf\\", a masterpiece of a story) it's not even second or third, but it still gets five stars, which can only demonstrate the sublime quality of her books. The plot is complex and interesting, it is easy to understand, despite its complexity, there are some hreat characters and some nice twists to the story (particularly the one at the end...) which help keep it fresh and interesting. Her writing style is quirky and brilliant, eminently readable and entertaining. This novel is original (giving insights into the world of horse-rearing) and always manages to sustain interest by the fact that Hoag explores many plot-paths, (as she always does to marvellous effect and enjoyability, helping to build a multi-layered and full novel) down the lives of characters, who, by the end of the story, you will either love or loathe.	2002-09-08
1416368:US	40684262	R26F3CZPGG5IKM	0451206002	828611048	Over the Edge (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Proably his best book so far	Jonathan Kellerman's may not be the most impassioned writing, or the most elegaic, elegant, beautiful, etc, but it has that one quality which all great writing should have: Intense readability.<br />His prose is bright and breezy, cheerful and just plain easy to read. He creates a good cast of varying characters, the development of whom could only be improved upon a slight bit.<br />This novel is certainly his best so far (im reading them in order) it has a complex, detailed and interesting plot, and it is packed full of interesting psychological stuff. (Although sometimes he goes too far with some of the exntensive medical explanations and words which mean squat to me.)<br />The plot is interested, and the book powers along at great pace. (Although ends up about 50 pages too long...) There are some great characters, and this is very good, very enjoyable book.	2002-09-07
1420673:US	40684262	R3KFV8HU93KO5V	0312271158	143638584	Never Count Out the Dead	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Never Count Out that prose!	I love, just love, the style he writes in. I don't agree with the critcism that this novel, nor his first, got for the style of the prose. It's simply marvellous. it's unusual, quirky, eccentric, casts wonderful images into the mind, and is just plain genius. I cant get enough of it. You have to read every word to get the full brilliant picture that his writing is trying to paint, otherwise you can get lost. <br />The characters are great, although there are many of them, and if you dont read concentratingly, you may get them confused in your own mind. Also, they don't jump off the page with realism as much as those in God is A Bullet did. (In particular Dee Storey, the murderous mother, who is not as scary and terrifying as she is made out. Most of the time, she seems just to be empty threats.) But Shay Storey is a brilliant character (somewhat similar to Case Hardin in GIAB) as is John Victor Sully, whose story of revenge and resurrection is the main theme of this book. <br />The plotting is taut, the atmosphere of the book is a cloud covered night, and the tone is as black as black. <br />Boston Teran's books are simply marvellous (All two of them!) i cannot wait to see where this young author takes himself to within a few years time.	2002-09-03
1424937:US	40684262	RDO8VPYVYHXXM	0451403886	827958175	King Solomon's Carpet (Onyx)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent. Weird, compelling, brilliantly told	This story is told quite brilliantly. All the characters are wonderfully drawn, and all are INCREDIBLY interesting. From Jed, the loner who lives on the top floor of the house and keeps his hawk in the garden. To Jarvis, the owner of the house who is obsessed by underground systems and is writing a book chronicling them. To Alice, the young mother who has run away from her humdrum life, leaving her daughter and husband behind. And then there is Tom, the busker who once aimed to study at a musical college, but is now content to play for the armies of people who walk through London's cavernous Tube. Then there is young Jasper, who, along with his friends, finds his thrills amid the bustle of the dangerous underground. And then, Axle. The enigmatic, strange man whom little is known about, and whose secret will cast shadows over all their lives. <br />The story is told brilliantly, as i say. All the charaters living in the old schoolhouses each have a different part in the story, and rarely do their own seperate stories interact, until the end. It is like watching several little planets revolving around the sun (in this story the sun is the london underground system). Their orbits do not cross, but still they revolve around the main body of the story, until they are finally drawn together. <br />Rendell skips between each persons's story (each persons story varies greatly) wonderfully, while the reader hardly notices the transition. <br />The climax is not completely unexpected, but i often find that that is the beauty of Vine/Rendell. You can sometimes see or tell what is going to happen, and you know that absolutely nothing any of the characters can do to prevent the inevitable awfullness. <br />At first i thought the ending was shocking, and powerful but anticlimatic. Then i realised it is shocking and powerful BECAUSE it is anticlimatic. (Rather like when we meet Hannibal Lecter...we are shocked by him because we were expecting a monster.)	2002-08-30
1425005:US	40684262	R27ADH449AQF9C	0451191013	575466033	The Regulators	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great sister novel to Desperation	This is a great companion to Desperation and anyone who has read that should certainly read this. I, as some others did, did not find the use of the same characters pointless, in fact i found it a very interesting device, which helped to further sustain interest in the book and add to it another level, whilst convincing me that King is one of the most innovative writers of this generation. <br />Inevitably, of course, one novel will be better than the other, and i must agree with many others here when i say that yes, Desperation is perhaps a bit better than this novel. (This novel is a bit less frightening...there is a less of a sense of doom and inevitable apocalypse than there was in Desperation, and this is partly to do with the fact that we see less of Tak, we don't experience his language, which was part of the reason why the spirit was so terrifying in Desperation.) However, it is still a very powerful book, filled, as Kings books are, with raw human emotion. <br />This novel says many things about our growing TV culture, as well as being a rather disturbing (as i say, not altogether scary) one. There are many characters, some who we like, some who we hate. Some who we love? And sometimes its confusing, but stick with it, in the end, it's a rewarding book but sometimes sad book.	2002-08-30
1428778:US	40684262	R2RERQV178ADK0	0446603929	970195742	See How They Run	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A brilliant book from Patterson	Some James Patterson readers just cannot understand why his early books are actually very good. But they are...<br />James Patterson's early books are gems to be savoured as they are some of the few example of him when he actually wrote GOOD prose, before he began churning them out like Danielle Steele just for a few more bucks. The prose in his latest books is unashamedly simplistic and shallow, and completely lacks any kind of depth. here, at least, his prose is far better. <br />And, the story looses absolutely nothing. It is still very suspenseful, pageturning, etc. All the things for which Patterson is best known. The good writing takes absolutely nothign away from the excitement and overall quality of the plot and even, at times, adds to it. <br />The plot itself is strong (if rather unrealistic...but then, we do not look to Patterson for realism) and much better developed than those of his latest books. The characters are also more well-drawn (still not good...but character development has never been one of his grest strength, unless of course you're talking about the villains in his first three Cross thrillers.) It's also a book which puts forward lots of moral issues, and probably plays around with yourbeliefes and conceptions about what is good and what is bad. I.e. the villains are not who at first we think they are, but they are an altogether different group of people whom we feel a great empathy for. <br />There are still twists aplenty throughout the book, and it powers along with the speed and inevitability of a freight train. The climax is great, and the relationship between Alix and David touching (although its not quite understandable how David so quickly gets over the death of his wife)<br />If only James Patterson would go back to this style. Good writing AND a great plot...now, there's something to look out for from JP.	2002-08-26
1432431:US	40684262	R13U8A69PLWIC9	0786710101	976394415	Resolution: A Novel of Crime	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Best in the trilogy	This novel is far and away the best of the entire trilogy. It is so good that it even rates on my &quot;Top Books of All Time&quot; list. Once you get past all the re-telling of backstory, the events which have occured in previous novels, this is a superb book. Newscomers who start with this one will not find themselves lost, because Mina recaps everything that has gone before quite ably. If you have read the previous two, the retelling could get a bit tedious, i suppose, but you can always just ignore it. <br />It's an excellent novel, full of wonderful, fully formed and likeable characters who just jump off the pages. Mina's descriptions of Glasgow are absolutely superb, and her way with words and turn of phrase is sometimes stunning. The plot is great, the double plot strand intertwine brilliantly. This is a story about less-than average people trying to get through life relatively unscathed and not always making a good job of it. <br />As i say, the plot is excellent, and the writing is brilliant and assured. It's an incredibly compelling novel which you cannot put down. I ploughed through this one in a single day, i enjoyed it so much. Maureen O'Donnell's story is finally at an end, and after it all, as with all good books, we still want to know more about what is going to happen to her. <br />The conclusion is great and there are a couple of really neat twists to lift the plot above the excellent.	2002-08-23
1434642:US	40684262	R3UCHLGU46PDE5	0312290896	945422191	The Last Temptation: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Excellent book, but not what i wanted	I did not enjoy this book half as much as i have enjoyed her previous books. However, that does not mean it is a bad book. It is actually a very good book, one that i expect will appeal to many people. But it is not what i was expecting, nor what i was looking forward to, and hence i am disappointed. <br />The basic plot goes thus: Carol Jordan is sent to Berlin on an undercover covert operation to trap an evil traffiker in both drugs and humans. Her bosses think she will be able to handle it. During the job she will be almost completely cut off from everybody, and will feel very alone. Her peril's are increased when the actions of her superiours put her in mortal danger.<br />Alongside that, psychologists are being murdered on the contient. Murdered horribly, with no apparent motive. It is when an ex colleage of profiler Tony Hill's is found slain that he takes it upon himself to investigate the killings. <br />The emotionally tangled pair must both tackle their own monsters with little help from anyone else and both of them, Carol in particular, will face great personal danger. <br />It is a very well written book, that is undeniable. However, i cannot say that it is as atmospheric as \\"A Place of Execution\\" or as scary and original as \\"Killing the Shadows\\", but it is thrilling in a hard-edged way. But...<br />...McDermid concentrates far too much on Carol Jordan's side of the book, and not nearly enough on the serial killer aspect of the plot, which is what she is known for, and what she does best. As such, the serial killer nit about the psychologists getting killed seems underdeveloped and at times just incidental. Instead of the tense serial killer novel we expect, we are given a novel mainly about the criminal underworld and undercover policing. Many people will greatly enjoy this aspect of the book. And if so, i cannot reccomend it highly enough to you. But, if you are expecting a nice meaty serial killer novel, reasses your beliefs quickly, because it is notwhat you're going to get. <br />Actually a very good novel, just not what i was expecting. I would have preferred more emphasis on Tony Hill's aspect of the book, but we don't always get what we want, and this book certainly displays Carol Jordan's full abilites.	2002-08-21
1438434:US	40684262	R3EMLS85XQLPCB	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I cannot see what is wrong with this book	I cannot for the life of me see why people find so much fault in this book. Admitteddly, this is not the BEST of Cornwell's wrok, but that is not saying a lot. After all, only one book is. (For me, that book is \\"Point of Origin.)<br />The only thing i can see fault with is Scarpetta letting the killer in so readily, but if you'll notice, Cornwell does sort of explain that in the previous chapters, so that offers some redemption from the act. Otherwise, this ook is excellent. it's exciting, very original, and has Scarpetta at it's core, the woman who has been changed by the horrible things which people have wished to do to her, and the things which they have done. Scarpetta has always been an insecure woman, and this time she is fully vulnerable. It is a vulnerability that will come to the fore in PC's next novel. But there is no denying the fact that going through such hell as Scarpetta has will change a person. those who critixise that change are not criticising the actual quality of the books, but just what their own opinion tells them. And when you review books by opinion, you risk a lot.<br />Lucy has changed, naturally so. Disillusioned with the FBI, she has been pushed from pillar to post and targeted by the cruel Carrie grethen. Would this not change you? Would this not uncover in you a desperate desire for all the death to be over?<br />The plot is great, and the further delving into Scarpetta's personality is also great. The simple fact is, some people like it and some dont. <br />Some say she is flawles...that is not strictly true. Her flaw is that she is flawless, and thus us cut off form most other people, is not acessible to them, nor they to her. <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. The quality of the prose is as great as ever, and for those that like delving into Scarpett'a character, this book is a must.	2002-08-17
1439777:US	40684262	R3HF72ORQ4LT0R	0451180232	825628928	Nightmares and Dreamscapes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent short stories	This is a very, very good collection. It ranges from the macabre to the heartfelt, from the scary to the puzzling. <br />There is something for everyone here, lovers of non-fiction and baseball will love &quot;Head Down&quot; a great little non-fiction &quot;essay&quot; on Little League. Admittedly, i wasn't very interested in it so skimmed it, but it's an incredibly enjoyable piece of writing, very very well written, and at times touching. <br />If detective novels are your thing, you'll love &quot;The Doctor's Case&quot; a short story about Holmes and Watson, where it is Watson who cracks the crime, not Holmes. <br />Then there is the rather strange story, Sorry, Right NUmber, which is not told conventionally, more in the style of a TV script, but it's another very clever story that is very enjoyable.<br />And you of course then have the typical horror stories, such as Chattery Teeth and The Moving Finger. Then there are more &quot;message&quot; stories, such as My Pretty Pony.<br />King's variety is remarkable. Every story touches on a different element, but they all have something in common: The fact that they are all immensely enjoyable and well written. Once again, his notes at the end make the book even more special. My personal favourites of this colelction are Chattery Teeth and The House on Maple Street.	2002-08-16
1440518:US	40684262	R2UC6T40NHTT8O	0770427359	538560401	Bloodlines: Long and Short Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Ok collection, until the final story	This is an ok collection of short stories, right up until the final novella, \\"The Strawberry Tree\\". Until then, most of the stories are enjoyable, all are well written, but some of them don't have much impact. \\"Clothes\\" is a bit puzzling, to name just one. However, there are some excellent ones. \\"In All Honesty\\", \\"Lizzie's Lover\\" and the wonderful \\"Unnacceptable Levels\\" which is very short, but the best short story in the collection apart from the final one. <br />The characters are all well drawn with accurate psychology, and many have rather disturbing and strange traits. The first story, a Wexford, which serves as the title for the collection, is well written and clever, but not quite as entertaining as some other Wexford short stories. <br />However, now we come to the final story. \\"The Strawberry Tree\\" is a short novella of about 90 pages, but it is the best story in the collection, and possibly the best novella i have ever read. It says many things about the human condition, as well as being incredibly touching, well evoked, interesting, clever, very well written, etc. It in itself is worth the price of the entire book. Set in part in Spain, she describes the foreign landscape beautifully, as she does the relationships between the four main children in the story. It is a beautiful story, full of psychological perception. It's intriguing, compelling, emotional, sometimes sad, and has a subtle twist to the tale that it is hard to pre-empt. <br />First class, but this book by the world's most talented writer. Of this generation or any previous.	2002-08-15
1443580:US	40684262	RAZQSXUEGGNL8	0451206525	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great thriller, original and twisty	This is a very good thriller. I'm new to Iles, and this is a good first taste. <br />I don't think he has a very individual style...as a prose writer, there is little to really set him apart from many others. You would not think upon picking this book up without seeing the cover &quot;Oh yes, this was definitely written by Iles&quot;, like you would with some writers such as Jeffery Deaver and John Connolly. But that isn't really very important...<br />What is important is the fact that this is an ingenious, bizarre and very incredibly original thriller. In these days when the genre is swamped (forunately, it's swamped almost entirely with excellent authors) it is quite hard to turn out a book which is completely original, and yet writers like Iles manage to do it again and again. This one stands out particularly. Even the lead characters profession is original. <br />The story has more twists than a rollercoaster, almost none of which you cna preempt. (Especially the last great twist which comes really near the end.) The plot is intriguing, and unlike anything i've read before. It's not quite as enjoyable or thrilling as some i've come across, but it's brilliance makes up for that. <br />The characters are human and sympathetic, and the relationship between the two leads is handled subtly and well. These are characters we definitely care something about. <br />One point: at one stage in the book, Iles uses the old &quot;Does not happen half as often in real life as fiction writers would have us believe.&quot; lecture, but then immediately goes on to include the thing which he is talking about as part of the solution. Which sort of spoilt the illusion, but whatever. <br />Last Word: A very original and enjoyable thriller which twists and turns its way to a satisfying conclusion.	2002-08-12
1443831:US	40684262	R3NN8M4J7500GP	0553569635	145267347	Blood Test (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Second novel test	Kellerman takes it, and passes it with ease. <br />The book is original and ingenious. The solution is very clever and very shocking. He builds a story with characters you care about and events you just can't fathom. He unfolds it gradually, at great pace. <br />Writing is nothing special as to quiality, but its enjoyable prose and Delaware is a likeable and well drawn characters. Shame not to see Robin again this time round. <br />Great mystery novel, great solution. Unexpected and shocking, very effective.	2002-08-12
1446335:US	40684262	RZ7RZP8981I5T	0345439880	532250528	GOD Is a Bullet	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Probably the best book i will read all summer	I knew i was onto something special when i picked this up after hearing the reviews. So i saved it up, and took it on holiday with me. <br />And i whizzed through it like lightning. This is a superb book, among the best i have ever read. the plot is brutal and violent, but not without a certain amount of blunt compassion which glimmers like the hope it also carries, dangerously close to being snubbed out. His prose is beautiful and addictive. It shoots into the veins like a drug and pulses in your head. the landscapes it describes are vivid and utterly compelling. I dont think i have read such dark prose in all my life. It drags you under like an invisible current, and wont let you let go of the story, or it of you. <br />He is the master of metaphor. He raises this sometimes simple literary device to an art form. <br />The characters are likeable despite their flaws, and you will them along on their quest, hoping the suceed even against the odds, and against an almost pure evil. They are biting and drawn sharply. And even after we finish the book, we still find out that we don't really know them...<br />The plot is simple, but moves at brilliant pace and keeps those pages turning (although the prose alone could do that.) like the wind blowing them.  <br />The conclusion is exciting and action packed, it moves with all the seeming choreography of a hollywood movie. <br />This is a quite brilliant book. The California feral desert wastelands brood and make the book sear. I cannot wait until i get to read his next. This was the debut of one of the best writers working today.	2002-08-09
1446381:US	40684262	R4IDSUBJHH2F9	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Rather strange	This is a rather strange book. It's somewhat confusing to begin with. The universe mirrors our own in many ways, but in others is so completely different. Little is explained this early on, so uncertainty and confusion are quite prominent. However, it is a very well written book, and has a good pace. It picks up toward the end, and it holds a wonderful and eerie dream-like quality, making the reading of it seem just as if you were asleep. The ending is better than the beginning, but i think that is probably only just because, as we get more familiar with the world and the characters, it becomes easier to fathom out. <br />I am quite looking forward to the next novel in the series, if just to get a few explanations, and to see where he is taking Roland the Gunslinger next.	2002-08-09
1447127:US	40684262	RN1I2OOQACXLA	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Fair to middling	I am a bit undecided on this book. For starters, it tends to be a bit short. The writing is thin and the plot is a bit underdeveloped, as are the characters. they are not really indivdual (apart form the dead man) and if they didnt have names, you could hardly tell the apart. There are the \\"good\\" guys and the \\"bad\\" guys, all sharing the same traits as being epitomised of both those states of moralism. <br />However, its exciting and very fast paced. Its original, but stereotypical in its \\"rich\\" people are bad, so the poor downtrodden working-classes are quitissentialy good. <br />Something in the style didnt quite sit right, either. the writing style is as underdeveloped and poor as ever, but it didnt feel like Patterson. I have a feeling that de Jonge had quite a large hand in the writing (if not the plotting) of this book. Speaking of plotting...its exciting yes, but there werent really so many twists as we come to expect, and hardly any of the chapter end in the cliffhanging style we are used to. They just sort of stop, as if to chapter break anywhere would do, as long as the chapters end up short. (And in this novel, the chapters are getting a little TOO short. Too short and they halt development of plot or character.)<br />The ending was really exciting and totally unexpected, original but completely unbelieveable. Melodramatic and over the top, but still holds the attention of the reader, and still remains enjoyable until the last. <br />This is not a great Patterson, but for his fans, its probably average. Decidedly so. It's a good Beach read for those who have a couple of hours to fill and dont want too much lit-crit material to concentrate over, and it passes quite quickly.	2002-08-09
1447277:US	40684262	R3U4J33KFFV5NW	0312282648	751287852	The Slayers of Seth: A Story of Intrigue and Murder Set in Ancient Egypt (Ancient Egypt Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Steller series, stellar entry	The Slayers of Seth...a group of soldiers in the Regiment of Seth who once risked their lives for the prosperity of the Egyptian Nation. They treked out to an enemy camp and infiltrated it. Their task, to assasinate the Hyksos leader, the snake-worshipper Mertseger. <br />It is now years later, and the Slayers of Egypt are now greatly respected former soldiers. However, soon there is tumult in the house of General Peshedu. his daughter, Neshratta, is accused of poisoning Ipumer, an ambitious young scribe who had been trying to atrract her attentions. She had motive and opporuntity, and if she is found guilty will be buried alive in the deserts of the Red Lands. <br />Then, General Peshedu encounters an act of even greater evil. One of his fellow \\"Slayers\\" has been found viciously murdered in the Temple. Pharo Hatusu decides to intervene and appeals to CHief Judge Amerotke for help. But, before he has a chance to investigate, another of the Slayers meets a horrible end. And then another...he will have to act quickly, before they all meet their grim fate at the hands of a vengeful hooded killer. <br />Fifth in the series, the solution is almost the only thing which lets this book down. It's a bit obvious. (Although, to compensate, the killer's motive is not.) Doherty is possibly the most prolific author i am aware of. Proportionally, that is. (About 40 novels in 13 years) and his books are always of a high standard, even if they every single one of them contain the flaw of having not enough dialogue. His Egyptian series is my favourite, because to me the period is the most interesting. its fasctinating and intriguing, almost as much of a mystery as the plot itself. He evokes the time period so well with wonderful detail, the backdrop is beautiful, and the cultural details endlessly satisfying. <br />The characters are very likeable - especially Judge Amerotke and his wife - and are drawn satisfactorily, if not in immense detail. Relationships are realistic, as are thecharacter's beleifs and always interesting religion. (Facts about which are disclosed seamlessly. there is no text-book feel to this novel whatsoever.)<br />Like all good historical novels, the time period takes on a character all of itself. I have not read another series about which this is more true. Doherty draws ancient Egypt very well, and even if the culprit is, to come, guessable, the overall originality and enjoyment of the plot make up for it.	2002-08-09
1447343:US	40684262	R3SWOXNYHZX0IP	073661740X	907641963	Means Of Evil	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliant short stories	This is a very, very good short story collection. Each of the stories within is a little gem of detective fiction./ they are just as ingenious as any of her novels, the crimes just as compelling and the psychology just as accurate. the characters are well drawn and Wexford is on absolutely brilliant form. <br />They are clever, incredibly enjoyable, and unguessable. They are an excellent showcase of all Rendell's talents, and i would reccomend this short story collection to any fan of detective fiction. Enjoyment is guaranteed.	2002-08-09
1463614:US	40684262	R20TZ214DH5M0E	0066212995	411648778	Sleepyhead	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Very impressive first novel	This is, quite simply, possibly one of the best debut novels in recent years. It is slightly more assured and tightly plotted than Mo Hayder's Birdman (although its nowhere near as good as her second book, &quot;the Treatment&quot;). Its more well written than Denise Mina's Garnethill. Its far less complicated than John Connolly's Every Dead Thing. and more sparesely written than Boston teran's God is A Bullet. <br />In short, it signposts amazing talent. <br />The plot is great...its really original, and very compelling. shadows of a motive are given all the way throughout the book, WHAT the killer wants, and a hint or two about why he wants, but Billingham doesnt fully discolse the killers motivations until the end. And the killer himself is chilling...what he seeks to do to his victims is horrifying. <br />The plot is well paced, and the characters are drawn very well. Tom Thorne is a likeable, very human man, dirven by failures from his past. (Arent they all.) An able hero, his intelligence is high, but when no one listens to him when he tells them who he thinks the killer is, he is at a loss for what to do, and pursues his enquiries doggedly, despite the marked disbelief of others.  <br />His relationship with Anne Coburn is great, freshens up the material and adds a really interesting subplot. The reader roots for the two characters to suceed in their relationship, such do we care about and like them. <br />The plotting is tight, and the book subtly turns its way towards a great conclusion. <br />I can't wait to read &quot;Scaredy Cat.&quot;	2002-07-25
1467526:US	40684262	R3AGXE3D3YS8O5	0553560204	54491990	The Lesson of Her Death	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Early gem	I don't know how people get it into their heads that early Deaver books are not as good as his later ones. ALL of his early books are of an incredibly high class, equally as good as his more recent. They are slightly different, in tone perhaps, but the quality remains the same. <br />This is an idea book...there is so much of interest going on at once. It is the kind of book i adore...the kind with a central core plot, but one with many other subplots (usually to do with simple events in the lives of the characters) all orbiting around that core-plot, but never really touching it. It makes the books rather realistic, and such a feast for the reader. So much is happening, just like real life. (For another brilliant example of this, check out &quot;Cry Wolf&quot; by Tami Hoag, which is one of my favourite books of all time.)<br />Deaver's writing is very good, and his characters are great. Very human. He gets into everyones head, and shows us inside, so incredibly well that it looks remarkably easy. I have not met an author who actually can get inside his characters heads so well, and make whats in there seem so simple and ration, especially in the heads of his killers. <br />The plot is good...interesting, exciting, twisting. There are some nice subtle twists, although they are not quite as pronounced or as shocking as in some of his other novels. Indeed, the identity of the killer is discovered in the final 100 ish pages, and there is no real surprise about their identity from then on. (Which, having found out so early, you would expect there to be.)<br />If anything, this book is perhaps a bit too long. But not much...<br />This is not Deaver's book, but that doesnt really clarify matters at all. As all of his books are exemplary, and much better than most authors working today. (Hence the fact that it still garners a five star rating.) However, it may not be quite as good as such classics as &quot;A Maiden's Grave&quot; or &quot;The Empty Chair&quot; it is still ahig class, enjoyable read. If you are new to Deaver, this is probably good place to start and ease yourself into the water.	2002-07-22
1467529:US	40684262	R36ZALZKKO5R8F	0752809431	455194964	A Good Hanging (Inspector John Rebus Series)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Some very good short stories	This is quite a good short story collection from Ian Rankin. Indeed, it is good not just by his standards, but by most authors. <br />There are some really very good stories here...&quot;A Good Hanging&quot; &quot;The Gentlemen's Club&quot; and &quot;Concrete Evidence&quot;. All of which are very enjoyable. the final story &quot;Monstrous Trumpet&quot; would be included in the above category, but for it's rather unbelieveable solution. The inclusion of the French visiting policeman, though, was a stroke of genius. His presence is incredibly enjoyable. <br />All of the stories are clever, and all enjoyable. there are several nice twists here and there, and Rebus, of course, to provide for extra entertainment. <br />&quot;Sunday&quot; is perhaps the most inventive story, certainly the one most &quot;Rebus orientated&quot;. &quot;Auld Lang Syne&quot; is a very dull story until the final two or three pages, where it picks up some life. Of &quot;Not Provan&quot; , the same can be said. <br />&quot;Playback&quot; is a nice lite story to ease you into the collection. <br />All in all, there are some very good short stories contained herein. I would prefer a novel, but these will do. (Edinburgh is not quite so much a presence. Nor is the character development awfully good.)	2002-07-22
1468489:US	40684262	RSUP50JT8JHQP	0804113645	841706535	The Daughters of Cain	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The first novel i ever read	This book was the first proper novel that i ever read. Several years ago now. And it has brought me so far...It instilled in me my passion for the mystery/detective/thriller genre, and reading itself. It brought me to treasure, above many other things, the importance of a novel's characters, and to consider least of all the actual quality of the prose. This book is undoubtedly written brilliantly, but i enjoyed it so much that i didnt notice. And that told me an important lesson: It does not matter how well a book is written, as long as you enjoy it. (For even if this was written badly, i would still have enjoyed it.)<br />Morse himself is a puzzle wrapped in so many enigmas and conundrums that his character at times resembles and onion. Even by the final novel, we have not really found out what makes him tick. He remains a puzzle to the last.<br />Lewis is a very likeable man, an impressive Watson to Morse's Holmes. He is a simple man, but at times can be just as puzzling as Morse. <br />The plot with this one is simple but incredibly effective. It tells the tale of harmed women, and the revenges that they take. There is one woman in particular who stands out, and that is the teacher, Julia. She is an incredibly strong character, and a rather moving one in how devoted she is to her friend, and her motives for it. <br />This is a very strong novel, with a truly fitting title. It is an exemplary book of detection, with very strong characters and a very powerful plot. Until he retired, it is truly so that Dexter was probably the best living male crime writer we in Britain had. We lament his departure.	2002-07-20
1468873:US	40684262	R8SV7WQTVYOJE	0345446666	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	At the peak of her powers	Her latest three Dalgliesh novels have been the best of the entire series! &quot;Original Sin&quot; &quot;A Certain Justice&quot; and now this, have all three been fantastic and incredibly enjoyable. In fact, Original Sin is one of my favourite mystery novels of all time. <br />This one is a very very strong book....her writing is first class, and she is probably the best lady writer working within the genre today, in any country, not just the UK.  Dalgliesh is a likeable, well drawn character, and on this book we see some enticing personal glimpses into his past, and we are even shown a hint of romance in the air. I am eagerly awaiting the next book to find out where she goes with this aspect. <br />The plot is great. A classic mystery and hauntingly realistic. She writes subtly, especially about her setting. She doe snot force the landscape down the readers throat as some writers do, instead she lets it linger in the background, weaving its way into your imagination, so that whenever you picture anything from the book, the setting is right there.  Its omnipresent, but not right at the forefront. (As is right and proper.)<br />Great characters and a great mystery, this is P.D. James writing at the top of her form, where almost nothing is beyond her.	2002-07-20
1469083:US	40684262	R2GN1XHB02EMFW	1400045045	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bloody Henry	This is a superb novel. Ruth Rendell has long been one of my very favourite authors, and reading this book has only cemented that opinion. <br />She weaves absolutely seamlessly between the past and the present. And the reader is just as interested in both plot strands (the research into Henry Nanther and the complications  surrounding Martin Nanther's wife's inability to bring a child to birth.) She paints both eras excellently. Brilliant modern social observation and the ability to acurately depict our society, is matched by her ability to write authentically about events at the turn of the century. <br />The characters are drawn beautifully...very realistic and likeable (in particular, Jude, Martin's sorrowful wife) even the characters who lives over a hundred years ago are drawn well. Unusual for a Rendell novel, the characters are not actually mentally damaged in some serious way. There are no sleeping passions, no strange quirks, nothing which would make them seethe and finally explode. This is a tale about rather normal people uncovering horrible secrets from the past. <br />RR deals with the Reform of the House of Lords excellently. She offers us incredibly interesting glimpses into the institution, about which very little is known by most people. And the insights she gives us are truly fascinating. Martin's and the other hereditary peer's, departure from the Lord is written in such a way that it is subtly moving. The regalness and gothicness abd overall atmosphere is painted wonderfully. She has whetted the appetite, and i now wish i could know more about The House Of Lords!<br />The mystery about the first Lord Nanther's life slowly unfolds, and the truth is certainly strange. <br />There is so much that people reading this book could be interested in...there is genealogy, information on the royal family, information about blood diseases, in particular heamophillia, the subplot about the house of lords, the subplot of Jude's miscarriages...and, the icing on the cake, the mystery elements. This is truly a feast, and it is more than enough to satisfy her fans. Indeed, i think it will satisfy even those who are new to Vine/Rendell.	2002-07-20
1469303:US	40684262	R1OWRVQZ6BB9WC	0804119546	624182277	The Remorseful Day (Inspector Morse)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dexter ends on the highest note of all	This, the final Inspector Morse novel, is the best out of the entire lot. <br />Its got a great plot...its not as complicated as some of the other Morse novels (For example, the Dead of Jericho) and is developed excellently. It also has a more distinctive focus on the characters in the novel than some of his others, which makes this fresh and incredibly interesting. This time, we not only see Morse intimately, but those around him as well. <br />This is a brilliant, brilliant crime novel. Its realistic and incredibly moving. Morse is probably the best detective in all fiction, and when he finally meets his demise, i am not ashamed to admit that i cried. It is a very, very moving book. <br />Unfortunately, this was not made into a very sucessful TV adaptation. (Many won't agree with me, but it was not.) In the book, Morse's death has much more impact...its drawn out for longer, beginning its occurence about a hundred pages from the end. its emotional and very sad, but in the TV adaptation, Morse's death is hardly even hinted at until five minutes before the end, when he suddenly drops down dead, as if killing him off was just an afterthought. Much of the emotional impact from the book was lost. <br />Lewis is on great form was again, as is Superintendent Strange. There are some brilliant and unexpected twists in this novel, several of which force Lewis to reevaluate his opinions of his friend and boss, casting into doubt everything he thinks he knows about him. <br />With a shatteringly effective plot, a great solution, and a brilliantly moving ending, this is certainly his best Morse novel. And the good Chief Inspector remains an enigma right until the end.	2002-07-20
1471694:US	40684262	R1HB494B4ZY5W2	0312981643	274606132	They Came to Baghdad	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enthralling tale of intrigue and death	When i read this book first, i thought \\"well, that was an average to good Christie, nothing extra special...\\" but now i've re-read it, i am forced to change my opinion!<br />This is an excellent book. Its exciting and tense, there are twists aplenty, which keep the material fresh and interesting. It's packed full of interesting and enigmatic characters. Sir Rupert Crofton Lee, Carmichael, Dakin, etc, all of whom we dont see a great deal of, but we are left wanting to know a lot more about them. A sure sign of good characters and characterisation. <br />The plot is intriguing, and you are never entirely sure of what is going on, who is who, what is what, etc, up until the final pages, then it all becomes clear. <br />The setting is great...the sweltering heat and dustiness of Baghdad is an excellent setting for this type of story (indeed, any type of story) and really adds to the atmosphere. <br />Victoria Jones is a likeable lead character, human and quirky. (Sometimes annoying?) But in the end, you care for what happens to her. <br />The backing cast of characters is large, but great. And overall, the freshness of this story, the excitement and intrigue contained within its pages, all adds up to make this a very different, but very high class Christie read.	2002-07-18
1472526:US	40684262	R2OBYM6WWUFIVK	0684859734	662513874	Grave Secrets: A Novel (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fresh and invigorating	Like a cold shower, this novel is. (I don't know where i got this analogy from...it was just a thought that struck me while i was reading it. And it still strikes me as a truism.)<br />The writing is sharp, and her depiction of the dead is something to behold. She never for a second lets you froget that the people whose bodies she is investigatin were once real people, just like us, who lives and breathed and laughed. And she chooses to brutally remind us of that fact at the most well chosen and impacting times. <br />The developments in Ryan and Tempe's relationship are satisfying in adequate (reviews who complain....you cannot expect big developments in EVERY book.) and the inclusion of another love interest gives an interesting slant to the book. <br />The plot is great...interesting, and filled with forensic insights. (Although sometimes they tend to feel a bit forced...unlike Cornwell, whose nuggets of know-how slide from the prose easily) The characters are drawn adequately (although not quite so well as in previous books) the plot strands converge brilliantly at the end, pulled taut as only an expert can do. <br />The ending is exciting and tense, and what leads up to it is a very very good read. <br />This book is not quite as good as such winners as the sublime Fatal Voyage or incredibly impressive Death du Jour, it is still a high class novel.	2002-07-17
1472854:US	40684262	R3KNMILT811QLT	0552134643	690753180	Reaper Man, A Discworld Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	the spectacular adventure of Bill Door	this is certainly among Pratchett's top five books. It's a wonderful work...full of understated humour and philosophical observations which give a slightly different slant to the way we view our own world. The humour is laugh-out-loud funny, and there are some lines you just want to keep in your head forever, remembering with a smile. <br />Pratchett's writing humour aside, is also quite brilliant. It is eloquent, elegaic, and his descriptions are amazing. Simple things such as a grandfather clock, or a scythe, or even just daylight, are seen in a different way after being put under the microscope of Pratchett. <br />the plot is brilliant, as are the characters. it rides along at a fair pace, with Death at the head of the cast. (My, and many others', favourite character). <br />This is an excellent addition to the series, and for fans of Mr Pratchett comes very highly reccomended.	2002-07-17
1474341:US	40684262	R35RS4ESJ58B7V	0425174719	613782232	Third Girl (Hercule Poirot)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	By no stretch of the imagination is this her worst	there is absolutely no possibility that this is her worst book. (I dont think she really has one...theyve all been good)<br />but, this is certainly not one of her best. The plot tends to ramble, its very slow, and at times it can be a bit dull. (probably owing to the fact that there really doesnt seem to be mch crime involved at all, let alone a death, until almost right at the end.)<br />But it is still a worthy effort...its an original premise, its intriguing, and the solution is clever and unexpected, as we have been led to expect from AC. If you can wade through much of the slightly dull middle section, then you will probably be quite glad you read it. Its not her best, but its not her worst, and there are certainly some enjoyable moments (in particular, Mrs Olivers following of a suspect...Mrs Oliver is my favourite of all Christie's creations.)	2002-07-15
1475106:US	40684262	R21R0MRGENJF1A	0786709626	810636083	Exile	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Confirmation	I wasn't as impressed with Garnethill as all the praise had led me to believe i would be. However, Exile excorcises any doubts i might have had about her talent...here, in Denise Mina, is a first class writer. This book is a better effort, and the prose is of very high quality. There is absolutely brilliant description, and the evocation of the seedier side of life, in Glasgow in particular, is utterly compelling. Maureen O'Donnell is a likeable character, but it is nice that this book doesnt feature so heavily on her character. <br />The plot is good...the writing is blunt and brutal, but certainly does not lack an edge of compassion. (Like fellow british writer Mo Hayder...) It's effective and moving in that bluntness. <br />There is a great twist at the end which you wont see coming, and you will be left with your mouth watering for the next book in the Garnethill trilogy.	2002-07-15
1478991:US	40684262	RP9Z37TVEWMUC	0425098532	692503064	Sad Cypress: A Hercule Poirot Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lacks credible suspects	This is a very very good legal/coutroom thriller. The scenes of Elinor Carlisles trial are excellent, and show yet another aspect of Christie's talent.<br />However, this novels lacks one thing. Any credible suspects to choose from. (Apart from two.) As such, its a bit of a daft mystery. the other suspects only come into the readers orbit once or twice in the entire story, so we dont even really consider them.<br />However, the plot construction is still good, the writing also, and the developement of the characters (especially Mary and Elinor) is very good. Poirots deductive powers are called to the fore once again. And even though there are so few real suspects, the solution manages to come as a bit of a surprise.	2002-07-11
1479004:US	40684262	R29CGCTSFC49GR	0684859734	662513874	Grave Secrets: A Novel (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Dead and Buried	Grave Secrets , the fifth Temperance Brennan novel, is another excellent addition to the series which has blasted Kathy Reichs to fame. <br />This time, Tempe is sent to Guatemala to recover the bodies of the dead (known as \\"the Disappeareds\\") massacred during that country's vile civil war. It is in the village of Chupan Ya that she uncovers 28 dead bodies, and on the way to the site, two other forensic scientists are attacked on the road, shot, and left for dead. It is the beginning of an investigation which will haunt Tempe in the coming weeks. <br />Shortly after, her help is sought by the local police. Four teenage girls have gone missing in Guatemala City, and one of them is the daughter of the Canadian Ambassador. Is there a serial killer at work? Soon after, a decomposing body is found in a septic tank of a local hotel, and the investigating begins in earnest. <br />Reichs' writing is sharp; the plotting tight and complex. Her characters are interesting, often drawn with only a few choice words, and her descriptions of the dead are brilliant. Reichs' books ring with authenticity, as she has been and done the same sorts of things as her main character. This fuels the writing with realism and a relentless compassion for the dead, which really comes out in the story. She never lets you forget that these people walked, breathed, laughed, talked...that they used to be us. <br />Her use of forensic detail is interesting, and the way she writes about science doesn't make you feel as if you're reading a textbook. (In this area, she is almost on a par with Cornwell.) However, with this book there is one too many plot lines, leading them to become confused in the mind of the reader. However, careful reading does tend to remedy this. <br />Guatemala is described well, the horrors of the war still brood over the landscape. <br />Tempe's relationship with Ryan develops and complicates with this book when she also finds herself attracted to a Guatemalan police officer, whoonce knew Ryan. Tempe's conflict is done well and serves to bolster the roundness of her character. Being a devout Cornwell fan (I even liked Isle of Dogs ) it is hard for me to say, but Tempe is a more realistic, well drawn, and likeable character than Kay Scarpetta. <br />The... conclusion... is chilling, and brings the book to a satisfying close. While Grave Secrets is not quite as good as last year's offering (Fatal Voyage), it is still first class.	2002-07-11
1485015:US	40684262	REZ4A6SOZLFFK	0312963297	20675667	Trunk Music (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Altogether average	This is quite good...but at times i had to work hard to convince myself that parts of it weren't a bit dull. <br />The main problem lies in the fact that whatever happened, the reader isn't made to care. The victim is never really fleshed out, and neither are some of the suspects. The writing is great, and the dual cities of LA and Las Vegas are written about well, with a well evoked atmosphere in each case. (As is the norm for Connelly.)<br />Harry Bosch is on fine form once again. In fact, it is him that lifts this book's from a three to a four star rating. When his love interest is introduced about a quarter of the way through, the pace (and interest) picks up a little. However, she is not featured enough, and soon interest drains away once more. The next time it gets interesting is only when there is a plot twist or two. From then on, this book does get better. There are a couple of first class twists along the way that are really unexpected and they freshen up the material. <br />However, the final solution is disocovered about 75 pages from the end, and thenceforth there is almost nothing extra to add to the plot. there is no final surprise, no last twist, no last minute realisations. There is a small surprise, i suppose, but it does not really carry much weight, and the 50 or so pages we travelled to reach it dont seem all that worth it. <br />All this being said, it is quite an interesting book, and there are some unmissable developments in Bosch's love life, which make this book worth reading. <br />By no means his best book, but for Bosch fans, it should be read. Casual perusers should read one of the other Bosch books.	2002-07-07
1487553:US	40684262	R3113KHXUEPSYP	0425093255	973285060	Five Little Pigs (Also published as Murder In Retrospect)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Incredibly effective	This is a simple story. A bit like Cards on the Table, there is a relatively small scope of suspects. (In Cards... there were fourl. this one there are five.) All of them are interesting and well developed, and all of them COULD have done it. But did any of them have a motive?<br />This is one of Christie's best Poirot stories...Poirot goes back into the past to investigate a sixteen year old murder. the culprit was caught, and died soon after in prison. But years later, someone is determined to prove that they were innoncent...Which means, someone else is still guilty. <br />Poirot has to learn about all the events which went on 16 years ago through a distorted lens. Time has muddied the waters, and people's reccolections are sometimes very acute...but some are also very hazy. Having been convinced of the guilt of Caroline Crale, they have since shaped their view of events around that belief. <br />He delves effectively into the past. We meet up with the characters again, and Christie develops them all very well. She uses some very original and interesting narrative devices, and the reader truly does have exactly the same opportunities as Poirot to solve the crime. <br />The solution is suitably clever...and even though there are so few suspects, the reader is STILL surprised by the culprit!	2002-07-04
1487966:US	40684262	R9EHKKPWHXX64	0425169863	739795031	Point of Origin (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Out of all so far, this one is the most brilliant	Out of all the Scarpetta novels, this one is the absolute best. they are all faultless, yes, but Point of Origin contains that little extra something which just lifts it above the rest. <br />The plot is brilliant, an absolute stunner. Bleak, depressing, brooding, slightly scary, full of atmosphere. The characters are all brilliant. Ever since the first novel, i have fallen in love with all of them. Marino is incredibly likeable, slightly over the top, but a rather human, bitter, not treated too well by life, resigned man. Lucy Is now a grown woman. When we first met her in Postmortem she was but a young girl...since than she has grown, with the influence upon her of vicious killers. Coming into contact with such people in your youth is going to affect how you grow up, and your attitudes...the people who complain that Lucy has changed are naive. She has not exactly changed, she has merely grown. She is now a grown up woman, whose character has been affected by her relationship with Carrie Grethen and Temple Gault, and by being so close to her aunt, who deals daily in gruesome death. <br />Scarpetta is wonderful once again...Outwardly a competent professional, but inside she is just as insecure and vulnerable as the next person, no matter how hard she tries to convince us otherwise. She has been criticised for having no faults...Again, people misunderstand. Scarpettas fault is that she has no faults. It sets her apart from other people...Makes her inaccessible to people...makes her lonely. It changes the way people look at her and feel about her...makes people wary of her. Which is just as much a curse as it would be to be entirely faulted. <br />I digress...<br />This is a superb book. Cornwell's prose is addictive and at times beautiful. Her ways of description (people, places, effects, events) are wonderful and evocative. She writes about fear and paranoia very well, so that the reader can really feel it themselves...the isolation and fright. <br />The plot is a real cracker...Carrie Grethen is a great villain, pure evil. the way she manipulates everyone is superb. And the way the final solution links in to \\"Unnatural Exposure\\" is brilliant...it links the books in, into a tapestry. They are not just individual novels, they are set in a real world, they intertwine and connect, as events in real life. It is an ongoing story, not a catalogue of seperate novels. A body of work. <br />The climax is exciting, and there are many a twist packed into the book right up until it. The final chapter is moving. <br />This is the best book in the entire series (some fascinating forensics, too)...i reccomend it very highly to everyone. Not only is it the best Scarpetta, it is one of the best mystery novels i have ever come across. <br />To not read it is to miss out.	2002-07-04
1488679:US	40684262	R2S9O9231PG25T	0312976321	981001505	Fortune Like the Moon (Hawkenlye Mystery Trilogy)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Forget Ellis Peters	Leave those old Edith Pargeter books languishing on the shelves. Forget Elizabeth Peters. Hide your cache of Paul Doherty books. Because here, my fellow readers, is the historical series to end all historical series'. <br />Alys Clare is a brilliant writer, and she wonderfully evokes all things historical about the period. We have no way of knowing whether her details are correct, but they FEEL right. Which is all that matters. The attitudes and events and feelings and details have a certain authenticity about them, which is great. <br />The plot is simple.....a young nun is found on the path outside an Abbey, her throat slit. Soon, another nun goes missing, and turns up dead. The Abess investigates, along with Sir Josse d-Acquin, friend of the King, who has been asked to inquire into the deaths too, in order to prove that the killer is not one of the fellons which the King recently gave pardon to in order to appease the people, and convince them of his goodwill. <br />The writing is sharp, and the two lead character (Josse and the Abbess Helewise are great) they are incredibly likeable and human, and they work very well together. <br />This series is incredibly fresh. The ideas are entirely original, and Clare frequently breaks through the accepted boundaries. She is a daring writer, not unwilling to try something new. the plots are original and interesting, the mysteries intriguing, and the solutions always realistic and satisfying. The resolution to this one comes with a nice amount of emotional impact...and to some could be very moving.<br />Excellent. And, the novels in this series only get better and better. (Following on from this are...&quot;Ashes of the Elements&quot;#2...&quot;The Tavern in the Morning&quot;#3...&quot;The Chatter of the Maidens&quot;#4...&quot;The Faithful Dead&quot;#5...&quot;A Dark Night Hidden&quot;#6. ONly the first three have been released in the US, but the fourth has been released in the UK already, and is probably the best one so far.)<br />Enjoy :)	2002-07-03
1489336:US	40684262	R2P8UK82ALQTCK	0312983603	724236458	The Mermaids Singing (Dr. Tony Hill & Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Absolutely first class	As serial killer novels go, this one is first class. Certainly one of the best i have ever read, almost as good as \\"The Silence of the Lambs\\" and her very own \\"Killing the Shadows\\". In a genre in which originality is a rare commodity, this book really shines. IN many instances it does contain every aspect we would expect from a serial killer novel, but Val McDermid builds on that, giving us, as Thomas Harris did so many years ago now, an excellent all round novel, rather than just a piece of genre fiction. <br />The two lead characters are probably the best duo you will come across in all thriller-dom. The ... tension between the two just smoulders the pages beneath your eyes, and the rigid professionalism and determination of both adds a hard edge and hint of stubbornness to their relationship. They are both very human and very likeable. The reader warms to both Carol and Tony instantly. They are well drawn, characterised, and are immensely real. <br />The killer is chilling, and the murders come close to Mo Hayder's \\"Birdman\\" in terms of gruesomeness. The descriptons of the dead bodies, and how those bodies met their deaths, has great capability to turn stomachs. <br />The writing is packed with detail and grittiness. It is also enfused with quite a well evoked sense of place. High class prose, styled as only a master can, manipulates the reader, preparing them for a stuning final twist to the story, which has you kicking yourself whilst stunned at the same time. And the showdown between hunter and hunted is a brilliant climax to the entire book. <br />So, if you like good serial killer thrillers, this is definitely one of the best you could choose to read.	2002-07-03
1489503:US	40684262	RYY8VCFDJ356I	0553575090	888852995	Deception on His Mind	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best	This novel is one of the best in the entire series (seond only to \\"A Traitor To Memory\\", which is my favourite.)<br />Lynley is gone from the plot, and i did not miss him at all!!! Barbara more than sustains interest throughout the entire book on her character alone. I didnt ONCE think...\\"I wish Lynley were here.\\" To exclude him was just to induce us to love Barbara Havers even more. She is a more than worthy lead character. Incredibly human, and incredibly likeable. Her actions at the end of the book just endear us to her even more. She is SO human, she acts in the way we want all fictional characters to act. We want them to banish their starched professionalism and self-restraint. We want them to loose their cool, their temper. We want them to show human weakness. we want them to act as we are willing them to. All so often, the characters don't, which leads to frustration. This is the only book i have yet read in which i was so utterly delighted with the decisions of the character, and in turn the author. <br />Barbara's human actions just make her seem so real. Brilliant. <br />The plot is very good...filled with intrigue and puzzling actions, on behalf of almost every single character concerned. They ALL, at some point, seem to be up to something sinister. The characters are drawn very well (sometimes she overdoes character development, leading to unnecesasriness.)<br />The racial issues are written about incredibly well. With realism, and empathy towards both sides. She does not live in Britain, but she does have a good grasp of the racial clashes which occur in Britain. <br />However, as with several of her previous books, this is at least 100 pages too long. It sometimes feels drawn out and bloated. Some heavy editing would not at all reduce the effectiveness of the book as the whole. Everything would still be as taut and well written, well developed. But without things which the book doesnt need. <br />So, this is a near-perfect murder mystery, if only it was reduced in size. (I believe it is George's longest book in the series so far.)	2002-07-02
1492234:US	40684262	R3M9H72SIXHPUF	0425177416	945670752	Hercule Poirot's Christmas	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another wholly unexpected solution	This is yet another stunner by Agatha Christie. There are lots of intriguing characters for you tp puzzle over the possible guilt or innoncence thereof, there is a brilliant victim. (Rather in the style of \\"Appointment With Death\\"'s Mrs Boynton) who, though a despicable character, is quirky and livens up the writing. He is fun to read about, and despite his apparent callousness, quite likeable. <br />The final solution is incredibly good. Really, its almost as notable as the solution to \\"The Murder of Roger Ackroyd\\", completely unexpected, yet makes the reader kick themself for their ignorance and blindness. <br />Poirot is on fine form once again this seasonal mystery, which has many twists and turns towards the end, which delight.	2002-06-30
1494421:US	40684262	R20XC6S9FXGG9Q	0345348176	708765235	From Doon with Death (An Inspector Wexford Mystery)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Sheer brilliance	This is a superb debut. One of the best debut novels ever published, i feel, and a wonderful introduction to the best writer currently at work in any genre.<br />Margaret Parsons is dead. She appeared to lead a very dull life. She had been a \\"good\\" woman. Religious, old-fashioned, and respectable, her life had been as spotless and ordinary as her home, as unexciting and dependable as her marriage.<br />But it was not her life that interested Chief Inspector Reg Wexford, but her death. How could it be that such an ordinary, predictable woman could meet her end in such a death of passion and violence? For which there appears neither motive nor clue...<br />Thus began Ruth Rendell's writing career. The rest, as they say, is history.<br />Already, so very early on, we are shown the immense talents of a brilliant author. Tight and complex plotting. First-class writing. Realistic and believeable characters. Good psychology, and an ability to shock and surprise which can make you feel uncomfortable.<br />This novel really has stood the test of time. Even after about 20 other Wexford novels, this still remains as one of my favourites. (If not THE favourite) The story is simply but expertly told. The murder mystery side of it all is told as deftly and deceptivelt as an Agatha Christie story, and the identity of the killer and is singularly unguessable. This novel has hints of Christie about it (who was still writing novels at the time this was published, and would have at least ten years left in her) in its style, but this novel is even better. This one retains all the things which made Christie famous, yet builds on her faults. Excellent and well drawn characters, and absolutely first class writing, with a great sense of atmosphere.<br />This is a truly brilliant debut novel, which really deserves it's unique place in the Rendell archive.	2002-06-28
1494750:US	40684262	R14S8C6MKRRUGS	0061003778	768754381	The Pale Horse	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chilling and puzzling	This is another stellar effort from ms Christie. A great puzzle. it is very different - certainly at first glane - to the basis of most of her novels, and is very original. The methods of concealment of murder are ingenious, and there are some very likeable characters. Mark Easterbrook, a likeable man, if a tad...dull at times. He ably leads us through the narrative, telling us all we need to know. Ginger, a lovely quirky character. <br />Another strength of this book is the presence of Ariadne Oliver. She doesn't feature incredibly heavily, but when she does, the writing takes a fair lift. She's a brilliant character. Incredibly amusing, she is probably my favourite of all Christie's characters. When working alongside Poirot, she is a gem. <br />Something else i really liked about this book is the fact that several of the character (The Dane Calthrops, Colonel and Rhoda Despard, etc.) we have seen before in other Christie novels, alongisde Poirot, or Marple. I love it when authors do this...using characters from other stories only serves to create an even thicker and more believeable tapestry of the world in which the author's writing's move. <br />The story here is very original, and rather creepy and disturbing (for some, i would imagine). Black Magic and voodoo-ish practices, could they really be responsible for murder? <br />The solution is typical unexpected, with a great twist. <br />Another incredibly strong effort by the Queen of Crime.	2002-06-28
1495620:US	40684262	RM7PWPNQEQ3YA	0399148620	57740013	Acid Row	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not her best, but very enjoyable nonetheless	A young girl, Amy, goes missing, around the same time it is revealed that a peadophile is living in the housing estate from which she disappeared. The people come out in force to protest at his presence. Slowly, the protests bud into riots, stretching the police force, breeding greater and greater acts of violence. The streets of \\"Bassindale Row\\" (dubbed \\"Acid Row\\" by its inhabitants) are thronged with angry citizens, some well-meaning, and some there just to further incite destruction. Events build to a crescendo, as the troubled housing estate is swept under the tide of a crowd whos slogan is \\"Saving Amy\\"...But, the rioters are unaware of the presence of Sophie Morrison, a young doctor called to the house of the \\"pervert\\" just before events erupted. Now she is trapped inside with a man she increasingly comes to believe is capable of great violence...<br />Minette Walters continues in the vein of her last book, bringing forth a novel once again full of deep social perception. This time, she writes about the events which recently swept Great Britain, with all the furore of exposing peadophiles, and the doubled-edged sword that doing so would unsheath. <br />The first thirty pages or so are just typical Walters. Accurate psychology, deep prose, great characters, realism in the writing, etc. However, once the riots begin, the book gets swept away with the pace. It moes too quickly. Character development, which was building so brilliantly at first, is sacrificed, and several of the characters introduced later on in the story come across as cardboard and cliched. The excitement of the events just takes the book too quickly. It does make it a great pageturner, yes. And i am sure that fact will win it praise, but at the expense of plot and character development, im not certainl it's worth it. Becuase her books are always pageturners ANYWAY. <br />So, the middle section of this book is underdeveloped. I think Walters probably got carried away. When a writer is penning an exciting plot, they are apt to get carried away. they rush it, eager to experience the action of the plot themselves. As such, the action and riots feel underdevloped and shallow, and the book doesnt always \\"feel\\" like a Minette Walters novel. <br />While the deep acurate psychology of character is lost after the first thirty pages, something does redeem that. Instead of individual character psychology, we are treated this time to an accurate representation of mob psychology. This does make up, mostly, for the fact that the plot is mostly underdeveloped. <br />The ending is very good. A great climax, with a nice twist, but considering what we know of how events like these conspired in England, some may find it predictable from quite a way off. however, that certainly doesn't spoil the enjoyment. <br />The final chapter has been criticised for being too \\"happy ever after-ey\\". Yes, it does contain that quality, but i don't mind. I prefer to look at it as a display of hope, and the fact that sometimes, good does win out over evil, and the sometimes bad events spawn good things. It is rather uplifting, and a lovely way to finish off the book. Leaves you with good, happy feelings about what has happened. <br />This book is still incredibly enjoyable. I finished it in two days. It's a pageturner, and contains some likeable, if at times 2d, characters. The central section is underdeveloped after a brilliant initial 30 pages, and the writing gets swept away in the excitement. However, the explorations of mob psychology at times make up for that, and the ending shines through with hope. As ever, the prose is very good. <br />This is a reccomended book, but perhaps not quite what we have come to expect from Walters. <br />(\\"Fox Evil\\", her next book, looks set to be yet another full of social observancy (Soldier returns from Kosovo, only to find the community in which she lives has slid into hostility.) I have to say, i think two is enough. I would soon quite like her to returnto the psychological mysteries which made her name, as enjoyable as these books are.)	2002-06-27
1499098:US	40684262	R13S3S8CQ86Y36	0425091805	653534023	Three Act Tragedy (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Christie-lite	Call me daft, but i really really like this Christie novel. <br />The characters are great (especially the sublime Mr Satterthwaite, and the wonderfully entertaining Hermoine \\"Egg\\" Lytton Gore). Really entertaining, and great to read about. As with many of the best Poirot novels, Poirot himself does not really take a large role until quite a way into the book (\\"Appointment With Death\\" \\"Cat and Among the Pigeons\\", for example.)<br />The plot is great, and the motive for the first motive is just sheer originality. (Even though it, and the motives for the other murders, is just a tiny weeny bit thin). <br />It's a pretty light Christie book, but with a brilliant first death and motive for it. And a great, rather unexpected solution. It may not be her very very best novel, but it is still one of the great ones.	2002-06-24
1500965:US	40684262	R1QW9IYGHIF5XE	006100278X	987673311	Ordeal by Innocence	Books	5	47	50	N	N	The Innocencts	This is my personal favourite of all Agatha Christie's books. For no good reason, though. It doesn't stand out particularly, but it is nonetheless a thouroughly brilliany mystery. I have long been of the opinion that Christie really came into her own when she ditched Poirot and marple. The books in which they do not feature are definitely some of her best. (\\"Towards Zero\\", \\"Death Comes As the End\\" \\"And Then there Were None\\" \\"Murder Is Easy\\" \\"The Pale Horse\\", to name but a few.)<br />Arthur Calgary is a really likeable character, as are several characters in this book. Which makes it even harder to read about what this opening up of an old wound is doing to them. It is hard to imagine how you would feel if, after several years of security, a stranger comes along and reveals that the killer of your friend/relative was not indeed the one imprisoned, but someone else. Someone who has been walking amongst you all these years, talked to you, eaten with you. And now all of you are under suspicion again. This book demonstrates that wonderfully, and it is a brilliant study of what the hunt for a kilelr can do to the people involved, the assumed guilt, the intrusion, the harassing of the innocent. All trying to find that one person who is guilty. <br />This book shines becuase it is actually rather realistic. It is full of human emotion and feeling, and some wonderful characters. they are not all of them incredibly likeable, but they are recognisable human, and you can empathise with all of them. <br />The story is told brilliantly, and the solution is typically unguessable and shocking. The climax is great. Fear permeates the atmosphere almost all through the book, leading to a great resolution. <br />One of her very very best books, if not her very best. Explores wonderfully issues of innocence and guilt, which raises it above the norm.	2002-06-22
1501286:US	40684262	R1F0225769R39B	0312981600	928486037	The Mysterious Mr. Quin	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Quite quite average	The only time Agatha Christie ever descends to the realm of &quot;average&quot; is when she writes a collection of short stories. <br />This is no reflection on her ability to write them, it is simply ebcause of the fact that i personally do not like short stories, normally. <br />the short stories here, compared with most, are actually quite good, i would suspect. Harley Quinn is a good character, but he sometimes annoys me. Far more entertaining is the brilliant Mr Satterthwaite (who we see again in the marvellous &quot;Three Act Tragedy&quot;) who is one of Christie's great characters. He is calm, understated, interesting, clever. And very likeable. <br />The characters in this collection are well drawn, and the concept of a mysteriious man such as Quinn appearing almost out of nowhere to guide Satterthwaite in the solving mysteries is a very original, mysterious one, which does work well. <br />Overall, for a short story collection, this is very very good. but for a book by Agatha christie, it's rather average.	2002-06-22
1501336:US	40684262	R2JZRIUG3PR0JZ	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exciting and scary	This, Desperation, is one of Stephen King's very very best books. Although, it does not quite Bag of Bones or The Dark Half as being my favourite Stephen King book. <br />This book is one of the most \\"pageturning\\" (i do despise that term) of King's current catalogue. The plot is incredibnly exciting, and very fast paced, watched over by a \\"who will go/what will happen next\\", form of suspense.<br />The characters are great, and very likeable. They are hauntingly human. they have human virtues and human faults, only serving to heightening the care that the reader feels for them all. <br />This, as well as being a brilliant horror novel is also a book about God, and Good and Evil. As such it does carry theological messages and ponderings, and the inclusion of the religious element does serve to give it an even more \\"supernatural\\" feel. <br />This is a superb, superb book. I could not turn those pages fast enough, and this huge book was finished within three of four days. Definitely one of King's best books in years. Guaranteed to be enjoyed by all his fans, and shoudl even create a few converts.	2002-06-22
1501340:US	40684262	R2AV6P1JGP3M8Z	1572702087	577200811	Murder at the Vicarage: A Miss Marple Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good start	.... this is not the best Christie book.  While Miss Marple is my favourite detective of all time, Agatha Chrisitie's MIss Marple novels sometimes leave something to be desired.  Miss Marple deserves more exciting plots, i sometimes feel. (Although, i know that is silly to suggest. She's an elderly woman. The plots Agatha Chrisite chose for her are of the perfect tone to match the old-lady.) but sometimes they feel a bit laclustre. Indeed, in this one, the first Marple book, she uses some of the same devices she used in the first POIROT book.  Mind you, they are not hugely noticeable as repetitions, and the book definitely does not suffer for it. <br />The characters are good, the writing sharp, the plot typically Marple-esque. Relaxed, in comparison to the Poriot mysteries. Miss Marple is a brilliant creation, and it is a great shame that Christie did not write as many books about her as she did Poirot. She is a hugely enjoyable character, and wonderfully original detective. The way she solves crime is entertaining, but doe slack something which the Poirot novels have. (I can't really put my finger on it...the only thing i can think of to describe what i mean is possibly saying that the Poirot novels are more in-your-face, whereas with the Marple books, the peaceful nature of the villages is brought across in the plot.)<br />While this is not one her best best books, it is still a very good one. The solution contains none of the great shock value that some of her books do, but it is still a surprise, and this book is still worth a read.	2002-06-22
1501601:US	40684262	R29BP19DY3RXRV	0312981651	145698365	Parker Pyne Investigates	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Best short story collection ever	I am not a great fan of short stories. However, this one collection i have read many many times over. Parker Payne is a brilliant character. Clever, amusing, great to read about. the way he solves problems and crimes is excellent, and rivals even Poirot and Marple. Indeed, the concept of a detective who solves \\"problems\\" (i.e. such as being unhappy) is so astoudingly original in itself.<br />I absolutely adore this collection. It is not only my favourite collection of short stories ever, it is one of my all time favourite Agatha Christie novels. It ranks, in my opinion, alongside the greats such as \\"Towards Zero\\" \\"Murder Is Easy\\" and \\"Death Comes as the End\\". The stories are so interesting and so incredibly enjoyable. I loved every word of them. Anyone who likes psychology will be fascinated by this excellent collection of stories. <br />I think my very favourite story is \\"The Case of the Discontended Husband\\" which, as well as being my favourite in this collection, is also my favourite short story ever.<br />These are hugely interesting and wonderfully entertaining. If you are looking for a diverting read and are interesting in human nature, this is definitely the book for you. (Also, watch out for the stories set in foreign parts. Christie excells when she sets her stories abroad.)<br />It is very unusual that i will give any short story collection any more than a three star rating (at best) as i am not a fan of their form or style, but this is possibly the only exception. It is nothing short of first class.	2002-06-22
1501709:US	40684262	R1E1RIAGF6CQCQ	0553569619	276823831	When the Bough Breaks (Alex Delaware Novels)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very impressive debut	This is my first book by Kellerman. And i was very impressed. It's a very good debut novel. The plotting is tight and the writing is sharp. The book is, basically, incredibly fun to read. (As another reviewer has said, you get the sense that all Kellerman was doing was writing for his own amusement and fun, and it really comes across in the writing. Very fun, enjoyable story, despite its focus on child-abuse.) <br />Alex Delaware is a great character. He is well drawn and realistic. instantly likeable, immediately an everyman who most readers will be able to identify with. He is supported by some other great characters. Milo, his police-detective friend. And Robin, his partner. (A likeable character at first, but if she carries on as she is, she may get a tad annoying in a few books time) <br />The plotting is clever, and the climax great. I see a strength in the series, available in his ability to portray likeable children very well. Unfortunately, in this book little Melody Quinn (the child in this book) seems to drop out of the story about a quarter of the way through, only to re-appear in a privotal role at the end. <br />The child-abuse is depicted well, the plotting is strong and realistic. The effects of the child abuse are also described well. Peadophillia is dealt with tactfully, and this book does not sensationalise it. In the end, the villains all get their commupeance, and Milo Strugis really shows his true colours. <br />This is a very good debut novel. A fast paced pageturner, with an addictive writing style, i fairly raced through this book. I am hugely looking forward to getting my teeth into other books by Kellerman.	2002-06-22
1503490:US	40684262	R2WLCDGIA7DGW9	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Emotionally draining	On a whim, i picked up this book from the bookshelf this afternoon. The series has been heavily praise by my mother, and i decided ti read the first couple of chapters. Needless to say, i was occupied for two hours, and did not put the book down once during that time, against my better judgement. <br />This book is horrifying in some of it's content. So horrifying in fact that there came several of times when i just wanted to throw it down on the floor, to tear my eyes away from this awful tale of evil, and not read any further into the disturbing story. This is a hugely powerful book, packed full of emotion. It horrifies. Some of the things it recounts are vile and heartbreaking, it amazes me that i actually managed to get through it without deciding that enough was enough, and i could no longer torment myself with this heartbreaking story. <br />We all know things like this go on, but i think it should always be a shock when we are confronted with their harsh reality so bluntly. And it is. It is not possible to hide form it indefinitely, or ignore it. You can try to shy away from it, but reality always ends up assaulting you sometime. <br />This book informs and shocks. It is heartbreaking and the most moving book i have yet to read. The writing style is good, drawing the reader into the story, describing ably the way he felt at the hands of his mother. One of the most disturbing things about this book is the fact that there seems no real REASON... it's haunting. <br />This is a very very good book. Intensely moving and well written. I am not at all regretful that i put myself through it, but i'm not convinced i will be able to make myself read the nex two. <br />And through it all, hope shines on.	2002-06-20
1504775:US	40684262	R1VUKUD2UIMOLB	031226237X	81690218	The Tavern in the Morning (Hawkenlye Mystery Trilogy)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Forget old Edith, Clare is the new Queen	Throw away those Ellis Peters books. Yes, they are excellent. But these are far far better!<br />The Tavern in the Morning is such a refreshing read. The material is fresh, the plot is original, with several threads, and i love the way Alys Clare makes her mysteries different from the generally accepted form that mysteries should be. there are no great surprises here, just an excellent historical crime novel, with some more excellent characters, and a great setting. <br />She really knows her stuff, and even if the detail isn't correct (i have no way of knowing. even if it isn't, i dont care) it does have the tang of authentic detail which makes you suspect that yes, she has hit the nail on the head with her research and knowledge of the era. <br />The two leads (Abbess Helewise and Josse D'aquin) are two brilliant characters. They are incredibly likeable, interesting to read about, and their talents compliment each other well. They care about each other a lot, and the warmth of their friendship comes out in the writing. <br />There are great developments in Josse's love-life, but, unfortunately, the woman involved is haunted by mystery and death...<br />The climax is exciting and tense. This is another very good novel by Alys Clare, a wonderful writer. She is certainly the best writer of historical novels i have yet come across. (\\"The Chatter of the Maidens\\", her next Hawkenlye mystery, is even better!!!)	2002-06-19
1504874:US	40684262	R3I30V9AM3E7G9	0061003786	117539379	Passenger to Frankfurt	Books	5	7	10	N	N	goes absolutely nowhere, but i still love it	this book goes practically nowhere at all, and is slightly confusing really, as to whose side everyone is on, etc. <br />But, it is not the bad book that most of these reviews seem to make it out as. <br />In all honesty, it really doesnt deserve the five star rating i have given it. In fact, four stars is a more accurate estimation of it's quality, but i have given it five stars to &quot;raise the average&quot;. because it really doesnt deserve the two and a bit stars which it currently has. <br />This book has some real plusses. It is brilliantly written. The language Christie uses is probably the best of all her novels. It is more well written and literary than some of them. There are some great characters (Stafford Nye, Mary Anne, Countess Wauldsausen (who we see unfortunately little of)) who really inspire interest in what is a rather perplexing plot. Perplexing why? Because there is actuall no real plot. It goes almost nowhere, and seems a bit pointless. Just written as a device to air some of Christie's views on the way society is sliding down the drain. <br />Which is where the book does the major credit. The social observations, passages about the state of the world, its climate, its politics, the attitude of its people, its governments, is intensely interesting. Christie's take on the new &quot;youth&quot; is very interesting. Anarchy and rebellion ar ethe order of the day, and they do permeate this book with a strange sense of fear. Fear for the future, and what it holds for us in this strangely unstable world. <br />This plot has a huge scope, exploring diplomacy, politics, forms of rule, government, vision for the future, and the state of the world. In that, it is truly excellent. The foreboding, doom, hopelessness of things is brought across well. This book also has a high count of people &quot;just trying to do the right thing&quot; in spite of so many people who disagree with them. <br />so, as a plot driven novel, its not good. But, as a novel driven by ideas and notions about the state of world politics, then it is excellent. It's interesting, thought-provoking, with some great characters, and a nice prose style. <br />A very different Christie book, and for all it's faults, it is one of the &quot;great&quot; ones. (As opposed to one of the &quot;excellent&quot; or &quot;good&quot; ones.)	2002-06-19
1505035:US	40684262	R1NFZ1PYJ7ZP54	0312979592	491453395	Ashes of the Elements (Hawkenlye Mystery Trilogy)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Second outing even better	The second book in this wonderfully refreshing historical series is even better than the first. <br />There is a cracking plot (concerning the &quot;forest people&quot;), which moves along at a fair pace. It's interesting and very different. There is also, as another reader mentioned, a very definite sense of &quot;otherworldliness&quot; to the plot. Through the intense beliefs of the tree people, you start to somewhat acknowledge the possibility that maybe there is something in it after all...And this adds yet another layer of mystery and intrigue to the plot, above that of the actual crimes committed. <br />the two lead cahracters are great and interesting. they are well developed, and their talents and deductive skills compliment each other well. They are a brilliant team. And, as well, Alys Clare REALLY knows her stuff about accurate historical detail. All of it seems very authentic. <br />This is an exciting, intriguing book, with a great plot and some nice likeable characters. Definitely reccomended.	2002-06-19
1508426:US	40684262	R1RH1L4AIKX2YS	0380718235	517614035	Say It With Poison (Meredith and Markby Mysteries)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	First in series remains one of the best	This may be the first in this wonderfully entertaining series, but it remains one of the very best. <br />The characters immediately strike you as real and quirky, with great potential. They are interesting and likeable. The writing is good, and the setting of the small village of eccentric people is excellent. The writing tangs with realism, even though this is generally accepted as being a not-very-realistic sub-genre. (Although, in my opinion, it actually is. The category of the village mystery is filled with realism. Lots of different people all living in close proximity to each other and no one else is bound to cause...interesting, things to happen. The potential for crime in a village is just as real in a village as it is a large city. However, while in a city you could have many different murders being investigated at once, in a village, rules of proportion cut the number of murders down to one. (Or thereabouts.) And as such, you can bring across in your novel every single aspect of the society in which this murder has occured, as the society is such a small one. <br />The plot here is great. The characters realistic. The solution unexpected. And the style typically Agatha Christie's Miss Marple-esque. <br />Great, great fun.	2002-06-15
1508980:US	40684262	RAMEUHPRU8TFT	0312284454	484787719	Shades of Murder: A Mitchell And Markby Mystery	Books	5	9	10	N	N	She is the mistress of the village mystery	Ann Granger is simply superb. She is the mistress of the modern day mistress, and probably the closest thing we have to an accurate modernization of Agatha Christie's Miss Marple series. <br />The writing is flawless, and the characters utterly brilliant. They are incredibly well drawn, with what seems little effort. They jump off the page, and are very realistic. <br />She spins her plot effortlessly, and glides back and forward between the two time-frames completely effortlessly. The two crimes interconnect realisticly (not as they did in Mary Higgins's Clark's &quot;On The Street Where You Live&quot;. A very good book, but the way the murders seperated by a hundred years were connected was completely far-fetched. This book is a much better example of how to do it.). <br />The double-plots do lack...excitement, is probably the word. But they are nonetheless very interesting, as well as being bouyed up by her sprightly writing style. <br />As always, the strength of this excellent series is found in it's two protagonists, Alan Markby and Meredith Mitchell. For over 10 books now, their relationship has been slowly developing. In fact, considering that theyve known each other for ten books is amazing, considering how far their relationship has actually gone. (Not all that far.) It's surprising that AG has got away with it for so long! But that is what adds freshness and an extra dimension of suspense to the story, the will they/wont they aspects of their developemental relationship. They are two brilliantly well drawn characters. Interesting. And the reader keeps reading, rooting all the while for them to finally get it together officially. And with this book, their relationship takes another small step forward, leaving the reader wonder just what might be in store for them in the near future...	2002-06-15
1509785:US	40684262	R16HLRST5KDOU4	0312981309	879411622	Towards Zero (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect	This has to be one of Agatha Christie's best ever books. There are a lot of them, yes (Around 15!) but i would suggest that this taut thriller is probably within the top five. <br />The characters are very well drawn. Realistic and believeable. The story is tense, not too overdramatic, and suspenseful. The story begins brilliantly (rather like the beginning of And Then there Were None) with all the characters seperately going about their own thing, slowly unfolding the reasons why they come to be at Gull's Point over this fateful weekend. It opens with esteemed lawyers discussing criminal trials...then moves to a murder carefully planning out the deed...onto newlywedded famous tennis player with his new wife Kay...to the attempted suicide of man by driving himself over a cliff. (A man to return to Gull's Point in the future to see the place where he almost died, only to become an important factor in a murder investigation that will change his life...and so on. <br />The setting is good. The plot is different from some of her other stuff. (Something all her best books have in common, an element of extreme originality in solution, plot, setting, or character.) <br />This is actually a brilliant thriller. The atmosphere is fear-filled, and the solution brilliant. She double-trumps the reader's expectations and assumptions once again, in an incredibly fine detective novel.	2002-06-14
1512441:US	40684262	R1FIKWYQBXAET7	0451406346	27250955	No Night Is Too Long	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Some Books Are Too Short	After reading the very first chapter, i knew i was going to love this book. I was mesmersised by the first chapter, and already felt so involved in the story that it was unbelieveable. I've long been aware of Rendell's genius, but this was a shock even for me. <br />The story actually moves pretty slowly, but the suspense and tension is just unbearable. You know very well that cataclysmic events are going to occur, but of how and when you know nothing. The sense of wonderment you feel at Rendell (in any of her incarnations) is simply awe-inspiring. You read and read and read, completely unable to tear your eyes from the story, even though its moving with a slow pace. Its thrilling, suspenseful and tense. And i loved it. <br />Barbara Vine is slightly more literary than her Rendell books, i have found. (Just an observation)<br />The plot is simple, but very strong. There are good, strong, simple, sensible, realistic twists. They turn the story once or twice, adding just the right amoung of freshness and surprise. <br />The characters are superbly well drawn and believeable. and quite likeable, despite their flaws. The completely unsettling thing about Rendell's books are the fact that all the people are quite, quite normal. Tim is just a normal, young man, struggling with his identity and sexuality, experiencing the world for what it really is. He's nothing special. Has no psychological abnormalities, is not in any damaged And yet he is driven to murder. This novel is a bravura display of how circumstances can drive people to commit horrible deeds. Quite sane, normal people, slowly taken hold of. <br />THis is a wonderful book. A masterpiece. The writing is just first class, and the descriptions of the places in which this novel are set are simply stunning. I have never been to Alaska (in particular) but through her descriptions i found myself transported there. And now, my window to it is closed, i want to visit it. It's a desire that should pass in a few days, butits a powerful thing to feel simply after reading a book. (I felt the same after reading \\"The Empty Chair\\" by Jeff Deaver, wanting to visit North Carolina. Guatemala after reading about it in Kathy Reichs' \\"Grave Secrets\\", and the middle east after reading Jack Higgins' \\"Edge of Danger\\" and \\"Midnight Runner\\")<br />I would reccomend this to everyone. I have in the past held of reading Barbara Vine, because i assumed that they would be something very different. SO different as to need publishing under a different name. My, though, was i wrong. After all, a Rendell by any other name is still a Rendell. These books still contain the intensity of subtle plot, great characters, good twists, and all the things i expect from Rendell. It has been months since i've read anything new by Rendell, and now i have discovered this new rich casket of wonders, my future in reading looks very bright indeed.	2002-06-12
1513676:US	40684262	R9WJFOW42QQ8T	0451200527	175834458	By The Pricking Of My Thumbs (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Something wicked this way comes	This has to be my favourite of all the five T&T books. And they're all damn good!<br />This one is slightly unusual (well, most of Christie's books have something a little unusual in them, to set them apart from all the others.) in that we are not even certain there is anything to investigate, almost all the way through the book. There are practically no bodies, only the shady disappearance of an old lady, which could very well all be exaplained quite rationally. <br />Nonetheless, not only is this her best T&T, it is one of her best full stop. The duo may not have quite as much youthful vigour as they did in the first three novels (they are much older now) but their spirit is still there, and the way Tuppence goes haring off across the country on a mere unfounded suspicion is quite typical of them in their younger days!<br />The characters are good, and the plot is very original, with a solution you will NOT be able to guess. The very nature of the solution comes as a great shock to the reader, as it's completely unexpected. (It's rather similar in style to \\"Crooked House\\"'s solution.) A great, disturbing, malevolent evil is uncovered from undera guise you will never expect. As with all the best CHristie books, the ending shocks more than most. <br />The entire novel, in fact, carries an underlying tone of omnipresent evil, foreboding and fear, which serves to create a wonderful atmosphere, for what is one of her most perfect stories. <br />A definite must-read.	2002-06-10
1515496:US	40684262	R3BRAHE9BR8GVR	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Thrilling stuff	this book, as his last, is certainly suspenseful. Is certainly exciting. Is certainly quite well written. Is certainly interesting. And has certainly got some very real characters, feeling some very real emotions. <br />There is not a lot else that can be said, really. <br />I'm sure you know the plot, i shant summarise it. <br />On hearing what it would be, i was afraid that it would be far too much like &quot;Tell No One&quot; but luckily HC has managed to keep himself out of that rut, and produce a book which is distinct, fresh, and bears only very very small similarities to Tell No One. He suceeds in making the plot very different in its execution, although it holds a similar style. <br />There are many many great twists. Right until the final 100 pages, it is impossible to see how any of it all connects together, or will make sense. It all seems completely impossible. Yet, Harlan Coben is able to provide an eloquent solution which satisfies, and explains. Well done.	2002-06-09
1515709:US	40684262	R272R14A9NOPRC	0425108589	811400280	Appointment with Death (A Hercule Poirot Mystery)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	One of Poirot's most interesting detections	Appointment With Death, is probably my personal favourite from all the Poirot mysteries. The atmosphere to the story is claustrophobic and stifling, and the setting of Jerusalem and the red city of Petra is just perfect for a murder mystery. (As are all her books set in the middle east)<br />I first read this book four years ago, and even when i came to re-read it, the vile character of Mrs Boynton was still very much fresh and real in my mind. She is, in my opinion, one of the most memorable characters ever written. (By Agatha Christie or anyone else.)<br />As with all the best Poirot stories (\\"Cat Among the Pigeons\\", for example) the detective does not really appear until later on in the book. This way we get more aquainted the characters, and when Poirot takes centre stage, it is more dramatic. Rather like him beeing the dark stranger who sweeps in, solves the puzzle, catches the killer, and them leaves once more. Much more mysterious and enigmatic. <br />Sarah King is great, wonderful company to lead us into the first 100 pages, until the death. <br />Th puzzle is simple, yet one of Agatha Christie's best. It is tightly constructed, with, as ever, brilliantly accurate psychology. The solution is very unexpected. It may not have an astounding solution like And Then there were None, or Murder On the Orient Express, but it does have one that is very realistic, and that you COULD guess, but never will. <br />One of my very favourite Poirot novels, for the strength of its plot, the brilliance of it's psychology, and its solution.	2002-06-08
1515722:US	40684262	R258278BK3Z5NL	0786708395	838231813	Garnethill: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Good	THis is a very good debut novel. it is assured, the writing is punchy. However, it sometimes lacks a certain depth, and, personally, i feel that this is an overhyped book. <br />The characters have been praised. Yes, they are quirky, yes they are realistic. But at times they annoyed me. And at others some of them just seemed too wooden. (Liam, Benny, Winnie, Una, for example.) They are given quirks to make them real, but that is not quite enough. Nonetheless, this is a very enjoyable novel, with a good dark plot, and a strong atmosphere of the underbelly of Glasgow, and of life. <br />It is certaibnly impressive. She deals with her issues (namely abuse in many forms) well, and writes with a brutal and blunt compassion. I would reccomend this book, yes. As a must-read? No, not really. But, this is part of a trilogy. And it is a debut novel. Writing generally always improves with experience. So, this is some very good stuff, but what does that mean about the forthcoming books in the series???<br />I have very high hopes of it. Despite its flaws (and they are not all that numerous) i do like it a great deal.	2002-06-08
1517009:US	40684262	REZ12JDOX27CY	0553583298	392561776	Hard News (Rune)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fire From the Gods	Rune is simply wonderful. I love her to pieces. She's quirky, fun, naive in childlike way, and just a wonderfully likeable character. <br />The Rune books are not the deepest books you will find. Nor are they the most exciting and thrilling. (Although they are quite.) But, they are quite atmospheric tales of New York and complex crime. <br />They are quirky, immense fun to read, and light hearted. Don't take them too seriously (this is what most people do with their reading...they take it far too seriously. Which spoils what would otherwise be enjoyable fiction.) and you will really relish them. <br />The plots are complex, the twists completely unguessable. (As is the norm with Deaver.) He is currently my favourite writer, and these little gems from the past only further convince me of the fact that he is probably the best storyteller i have come across in a very long time. Great characters, great plot, stunning writing. (I adore his style.)<br />If you like quirky, fun, lighthearted books with a tense edge, his Rune series is definitely for you. (I hope he ressurects her in the near future for a fourth novel.)	2002-06-07
1517980:US	40684262	R1I0WPZ0MN38D5	0451201205	865137997	The Secret Adversary (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Another brilliant one	Christie's variety can often astound those who first come across her. Whether it be a tense, well plotted detective story, a sharp psycholgical thriller with twists at every turn, an adventure, a spy story, a tale of international intrgue, she never fails to dissappoint. This time she turns her hand to an incredibly exciting adventure story, introducing two heroes who are even more enjoyable to read about than Poirot or Marple. (Perosnally, of all her detective, T&T are my favourites. I wish she'd done more books with them in.)<br />The story begins incredibly well, aboard the sinking Lusitania. A secret document is passed to a young girl, who escapes the floundering ship. Years later, someone wants that document badly, and is even prepared to kill for it...as it contains secrets which could bring down Britain.<br />Enter Tommy and Tuppence on the trail, and thus begins an incredibly entertaining tale of intrgue, adventure, and death. Lots of action, lots of suspense, murder and mystery added in for extra spice.<br />I have to say, i did guess the identity of the culprit (mind you, it was almost the only Agatha Christie book in which i did.) But that is not a bad thing. When, in some cases, you guess the culprit correctly, it can bring the reader an intense sense of satisfaction, knowing that, just this once, Christie didn't manage to outwit you completely. (After all, these books are challenges to the reader to work out \\"whodunnit\\" before the detective.)<br />Tommy and Tuppence are incredibly likeable, and i was immensely pleased to discover that she had written more (if few) books about them.<br />This one is a refreshing must for all Christie fans. (Mind you, if you are a Christie fan, i need not tell you that. Doubtless you plan to read them all anyway. As you should.)	2002-06-06
1518085:US	40684262	RUOD2TO6LQEJC	0440236169	504517515	Birdman	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Signpost to brilliance	Mo Hayder's stunning talent is firmly signposted here, in what is definitely the best debut novel i have ever read. <br />Her writing is sharp, her descriptions gritty and harsh. Jack Caffery is an intensely likeable character, yet so flawed (especially as is revealed upon the shocking ending) that some more morally firm readers will detest him. <br />The plot is great, and the writing very assured. &quot;Forty Words For Sorrow&quot;, Giles Blunt's debut (even though it was his second) novel, somewhat reminded me of this book. It somewhat grates on me that all debut novels nowadays seem to cry out for two killers. It smacks of a desperate desire to be original, and people do not realise that it is actually not all that original a thing to do. People have been writing books in which there are two killers for ages. It makes this book seem as if it's straining to be original. <br />Mind you, this is still the strongest, most thickly plotted, most assured, and most gut churning novel i have come across in many a moon. The killer is chilling, and at times makes Lecter look like a barbie doll. At times, this book is disgusting. Which only adds to the immense emotional power of the book as a whole. You need a very strong stomch for it, i suspect. Mind you, if you intend to read her next novel &quot;The Treatment&quot; then your stomach will need to be even stronger...(The Treatment is even better, and one of the best books around.)<br />The climax is great. <br />Long live Mo Hayder. You're brilliant.	2002-06-06
1518195:US	40684262	R37MXZ8JLQHLPS	0451199936	458097289	At Bertram's Hotel (A Miss Marple Mystery)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Marple tackles hard crime	First, let me correct a misaprehension. <br />This is NOT the first Miss Marple book. I don't understand where that notion came from, but it isn't right. The first Miss Marple book written by Ms Christie was \\"Murder at The Vicarage\\", and the second was \\"The Body in the Library\\". I believe this one was nearer the end, not the beginning, or Marple's sleuthing career. <br />This is certainly one of my faourite Marple books (second only to \\"A Caribbean Mystery\\") The plot is great, a somewhat change of style for what Christie would normally pit Marple's wits against, yet it is refreshing and works well. The climax is brilliant. The plot is complex, involving, intriguing, exciting, and the solution believeable, and also a slight surprise. <br />Strong characterisation, and an excellent and somewhat refreshing plot, make this one of the best Miss Marple books, and also one of Christie's best novels. (altough there are so many under that category, calling a book \\"one of her best\\" has become slightly ambiguous)	2002-06-06
1518850:US	40684262	R21MUJEOY9998P	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent debut	This novel, even though the identity of the killer is glaringly obvious, is completely excellent. The method of murder is brilliant, and the plot is strong, the writing strangely assured for a first-time novelist. (Alright, this wasn't technically her first novel, but as good as.) <br />The characters are great, well drawn and superbly realistic. (One of the series' strengths. the intense realism and humanity of the characters.) Kinsey is immediately likeable and quirky, and remains to this day one of my favourite female detectives. The way she has developed through the series is masterful. Any lesser writer would have run out of steam development-wise long ago. <br />These books tang with authenticity, and their crimes are not too melodramatic (as you find with some crime novels). <br />The way Kinsey solves the puzzles using only her brain is something which is often found lacking in some, more up-to-date, fiction.	2002-06-06
1518920:US	40684262	RQOTH8LEP9CQ	0684871262	791325639	Speaking in Tongues : A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Whispering Bears	OOe of the reasons i give this book five stars not four (which is probably a more reasonable assesment of it's quality) is its stunning beginning. The first two paragraphs are spectacular. They grab you by the throat and yank you into the story. The psychology and pace which is displayed in the first 20 pages is stunning. It really gives you a taster of what is to come. We are introduces to Megan Collier, the daughter of tate Collier, as she goes to visit her psychiatrist, in one of the most breathtaking and well-written scenes i have come across in a while. I especially liked the tale of the Whispering Bears (which, essentially, mirrors the entire message of the story.)<br />What follows after Megan is kidnapped (Yes, that is how those first two chapters climax) is a slick, fast paced, action packed thrill ride which should delight all fans of James Patterson. However, why this might not satisfy Deaver fans is that the characters are not always so well developed, nor has the writing such depth as is the norm with Deaver. However, the plot is a steamroller that just keeps on going, as the chilling villain remains one step ahead of tate collier (hero of the piece) every step of the way. Right until the brilliant climax, where things all come to a head in an atmospheric and run down psychiatric hospital (at least, i believe thats what it was. it was about five months ago i read this book). <br />It's very fast, very exciting, and probably the most page-turning of Deaver's books. The plot, whilst being a simple tale of revenge, does work, but feels at times less fleshed out than it should be. In fact, the book as a whole seems a little short. <br />Nonetheless, its a sharp, thrilling, exciting, well written, rollercoaster of a book, with some likeable characters. (Especially Megan's friend.) and a chilling villain. <br />Slightly different to Deaver's normal style, but still, in my opinion, excellent despite it's flaws.	2002-06-06
1518926:US	40684262	R10R2VPCPP91ZW	0396091571	361041787	Crooked House (Winterbrook Edition)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Crooked Mile	Most of Christies books are rather similar up until the ending, where they all branch out and either become a good Christie, or an excellent Christie. It is often the final solution of an Agatha Christie book which makes or breaks it. <br />Up until the solution, there is little new to be had here. It is the typical Christie dysfunctional family haunted by the shadow of murder. Into the fray steps a detective, sleuthing around and discovering all sorts of misdemenours. Nothing wrong with that at all. Provides excellent enjoyment. However, it is with the ending that an Agatha Christie book can really provide more than enjoyment, and can inspire wonderment. <br />This is one which does just that. <br />It's really rather run-of-the-mill until the solution is propounded, whereupon the book explodes in an unexpected horror in the fact of almost pure, yet very simple, evil. You will never guess the solution. But when it comes, it is one of the most surprising she concocted. And shocking. <br />No one can ever underestimate her contribution to the genre. It is with books like this that she really redefined the nature of the crime novel. <br />And she has far more literary worth than most critics would have you believe. (Rather like critics of the excellent Stephen King.) Her writing is good, her characters well formed, and her psychology spot on. (Her adept hand at psychological acuteness is often overlooked, but all her books are truly excellent psychological thrillers, as well as classic detective stories.)	2002-06-06
1518961:US	40684262	R30AJ2OPK0FPJU	0451199928	168746734	A Caribbean Mystery (Miss Marple Mysteries)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The best Marple outing	I find that my favourite Agatha Christie books are the ones set away from the normal places. (Death on The Nile, Appointment With Death, Death in the Clouds, Murder in Mesopotamia, Death Comes As The End, etc) This one is set, as the title suggests, in the Caribbean. <br />The unusual settings ALWAYS enhance Christie's stories. Normally, they are excellent mysteries, but when she sets them in uncharted territory, you have the extra dimension of the unusual setting, which adds to the atmosphere of the book, and the overall satisfaction of the plot. I cannot explain it very well, really. <br />This book is raised above the excellent Miss Marple norm by being set elsewhere, in the parching heat of the carribean, where relaxing and enjoying the sun should be the order of the day, not cold-blooded murder. But, this is an Agatha Christie novel, and she is no respector of venue. <br />The plot is excellent. Some of her Marple mysteries tend towards the tedious and boring, with very little real excitement or action. This one breaks that trend. there is action a-plenty, violent death, vicious murder, intriguing characters, intrigueing murders, the whole cavalcade. <br />Marple is at her best here, and Christie's solution is unexpected, and very good. There are also some really excellent characters. The colonel, and Mr Rafiel, to name just two. Well drawn and interesting, they both add strength to the plot, ...	2002-06-06
1518966:US	40684262	R3O9586TQ7J0J6	0425147622	950957632	The Body Farm	Books	5	0	2	N	N	One of her very very best	This Scarpetta novel is second only to Point of Origin. <br />It is an excellent, chilling, atmospheric tale of ghastly murder in a small american town, normally untouched by any kind of crime. Scarpetta is back in full force, her powerful personality brooding over the book, and Marino is along for the ride, too, getting far too personally involved in a case which can only end badly...<br />Great characters, a great plot, some brilliant writing. (You've got to love her style. You've got to.) Also, it has one of the most disturbing motives and resolutions that you will find among the Cornwell cannon. A must-read.	2002-06-06
1523032:US	40684262	R1SIWPGEUY5XMF	0312981619	862557850	Death Comes As the End	Books	5	1	6	N	N	#1"An ancient setting. An age-old crime. A timeless mystery"	I own and have read, every single one of her 80+ books and short story collections, and this one, possibly her most unique, is her best. <br />Set in Ancient Egypt, this is probably THE original historical crime novel. I can think of no other published before this. And none published after which equal it in it's brilliance. With this book, Agatha Christie outdoes more modern historical crime novelists such as Paul DOherty, Alys Clare, and Ellis Peters, with a single blow. She suceeds at everything she turned her hand to. <br />Fuelled by extensive background knowledge and research, this books hits just the right tone in historical detail, and all of it rings true. (I dont know whether it is, and nor do i care. All i care about is the fact that it seems authentic.)<br />This book retains all the things which make her modern fiction so good. The back-stabbing and terse depictions of family life, and the tensions and emotions which rise out of family, and love. (Often misguided, frequently adulterous). All her books are excellent at bringing out descriptions of families, and how the murder affects them. this one is no different. As well as that, there is a cracking plot, and some particularly bloodthristy murders to fit right in with the bloodthristy time period. <br />The setting is evoked well, as is the time period. The book is suspenseful and thrilling. Also, a tiny bit frightening. <br />I did not find the solution as easy to guess as other people appear to have. Mind you, i dont usually bother with trying to figure out who did it. Often, i get it right and find i have spoiled the book for myself. So i see no real point in bothering.) I found the resolution brilliant. <br />The setting, the strong plot, the characters, the seething bitterness of the emotion, all serve to rank this as number one of all Agatha Christie's many novels.	2002-06-02
1523468:US	40684262	R3CK9SK81TLFZ7	0425103633	884941430	Murder in Mesopotamia (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of her very best books	The people who decry this book as not being as good as some of her others are misplaced in their views. This is definitely another of her masterpieces. Her best Poirot books are those set in this kind of territory (I.e. Murder On the Orient Express, Death on the Nile, Appointment with Death, Murder, and this one.) because the setting really enhances the plot. <br />The way this book is narrated is rather different from some of the other books. Told from the perspective of the nurse who looked after the victim before she died, it is very engaging and the prose brings a very human element to the book, and the feelings and emotions of being caught up in a murder, in which everyone becomes a suspect. It works very well. <br />There are some great characters in this one. Some eccentric, some you grow to love, some you are indifferent to. None that you actively dislike. All intriguing. <br />The way the story unfolds is materful, and the methods for murder are, when finally revealed, ingenius. You would enver think of it in a million years, even thought it really is staring you in the face. Also, this books holds the top place in the \\"most vile deaths in an Agatha Christie novel\\" category. Anne Johnson's instrument of demise is, to be blunt, quite horrible. I felt sick at the thought of it. (And the way it was depicted in a recent television adaptation in the UK was quite vile. But powerful, and packs a great punch.)<br />An incredibly strong, yet simple, plot, is what makes this book stand out amongst her others. It has power, and is emotional and intense. The method of murder is quite brilliant. The solution, whilst not packing a great surprise as some of her more unlikely novels do, nonetheless rings true. (It would be incredibly hard to have made the identity of the killer a real surprise...all the characters seemed to be viable suspects, and wouldn't pack a great surprise if it was revealed to be them.)<br />This stands among \\"Towards Zero\\" \\"Murder is Easy\\" \\"Appointment With Death\\" \\"Death on the Nile\\" \\"Death Comes as the end\\" \\"And Then there Were None\\" and \\"Murder on the Orient Express\\" as one of her very very best books.	2002-06-02
1524077:US	40684262	RMGZ54DLOFG0A	0553576089	541516971	In the Presence of the Enemy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another good tale	This is another winning volume in her popular series. This time, the theme is dirty politics and journalism, set against a background of despicable, personal crimes.<br />The characters, as is George's trademark, are well drawn and interesting. They are varied, and keep the story moving along as the plot gets ever more complex. And intriguing.<br />Turn follows turn as the narrative follows the slow progress of the investigation into the kidnap of the cild of Dennis Luxford, editor of &quot;The Source&quot; newspaper, who once had an affair with an up-and-coming member of the Tory party, resulting in an illegitimate child which he has never seen. Now, someone steals his child away, and the price? Reveal  everything about his first-born child on the front page of his newspaper for all the world to see.<br />The plot is original, and weaved together with George's usual skill. This time, we get to see more of Barbara Havers, which is great, as she is probably the best character. This time, also, she is given a potential love-match...<br />At last, Lynley and Helen move their relationship along another step (after it has been sadly stagnant and going nowhere for about 3 books) which gives fresh input to the lives of the normal characters.<br />The solution is suitably surprising, and there is a good twist right near the end to surprise you one last time.	2002-06-01
1524450:US	40684262	R1A9ZNY6EZ1KYU	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great serial killer story	While this story lacks his main central character Harry bosch, it is still, i am sure, going to end up as one of his best books ever. (Along with &quot;The Concrete Blonde&quot;).<br />The plot is original and compelling (if a tad far-fetched, but i can live with that. fiction is, by its definition, not supposed to be real.) and adds much to the genre. The motive for the killing is good, but its description lacks a certain empathy, which i feel would have given this book even more dimension.<br />Jack McEvoy is a very likeable character, and his quest to discover more about his brother's supposed suicide is written with emotion, feeling, and conviction. Rachel Walling, his obligatory love-interest, is also likeable, and when the two get together first, you really want it to suceed.<br />The killer is chilling, and the way he kills is also so.<br />The conclusion is great...you think it's all over, and then Connelly just finds more and more to hit you with, playing with the reader's expectations and assumptions, and finally trumping them with a nice twist to head it all off.<br />If you're a fan of the serial killer genre, this would be a very good novel to reach for.	2002-06-01
1536974:US	40684262	R289RHXJWHIMMK	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliantly assured start	Considering that this was a first novel, it is wonderfully assured. And to this day, i am convinced that it remains one of Stephen King's very best books. For a start, it is one of his shortest, and thus more concentrated. Its a very emotional and powerful book, telling a simple story in a simple way. Personally, i could describe it most aptly as a huantingly beautiful tale. <br />Carrie is great character, and the way she is treated by her peers brings a tear to the eye (as does King's foreword in the english version, telling how he came to write the story. Heartbreaking, if you're of that kind of disposition.) However, the only place this book may fall down under close scrutiny is the fact that there is perhaps not enough detail of past events in Carries life involving her classmates constsnt mocking of her. Indeed, some may call that adding unnecessary cruelty to the book, but personally, i feel it would have given the book even more emotional impact, and made Carrie's final actions even more believeable, scary and yet empathiseable with. We are told that Carrie is bullied, but we aren't shown. Not quite enough, anyway. <br />Needless to say, this is an excellent novel, full of power and emotion. It comes straight from the heart, to attack the reader. For we have all commited similar sins against people like Carrie. This book works so brutally well because of several reasons. The guilty of the reader, the sorrow of the reader, the sympathy of the reader with Carrie, and the disgust of the reader against Chris, even though i suspect many of us see elements of her in actions we have commited in our pasts. <br />The inclusions of entries and excerpts from letters/textbooks/diaries is good. Some people say that they are only there to make a short book longer, but if you actually take proper notice, all of them help towards telling a little part of the story. They are merely a different aspect of King's narration, but still valid. <br />This is an incredibly good book, and i am positive that it is still one of Stephen King's very very best. (Alongside \\"it\\" \\"The Stand\\" \\"The Dark Half\\" \\"The Shining\\" \\"'salem's Lot\\" and \\"Pet Sematary\\".) I feel that he deserved a round of applause when this was published. And i am sure he is worthy of it as it continues today.	2002-05-21
1540092:US	40684262	R17J14D2TJ2IL5	0061020680	116769240	Mort	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A gem	There are so many \\"best\\" books in the Discworld series. Some are best because of their humour. Some are best because of their message. Some are best of their concept/idea (Reaper Man, The Truth). Some are best because of their sheer ridculousness. Some are best because of their cleverness (Feet of Clay) Some are best for their darkness (Thief of Time). This is probably one of the best for a mixture of several of these, the main two being its humour and idea. <br />It may not exactly be THE best (in my mind that one will always be The Truth) but it is probably in the top five. Death has always been my favourite character, and to see him have his own ook (and for the first time) is quite an event, and very enjoyable. His comments always contain such dry, unintended wit on his part, and the irony often brought to the fore with the use of his character can be hialrious. (I particularly liked the scene where he was telling somebody that \\"the affairs of men are not decided by chance\\". And as this man disagreed, he challenged him to throw a dice. \\"What if I win?\\" says the man. \\"THEN YOU'VE WON\\" says Death. \\"What if i loose?\\" \\"THEN YOU'LL WISH YOU'D WON\\". Comes death's reply.)<br />Mort is a great character, who i would have loved to see more of in future books. His developing relationship with Ysabell is at times touching. <br />There are so many wonderful elements of this book. The romance. Death loose trying to be human. The revelations concerning Alberts past. The explanations as to the mechanics of history. The way Pterry shows to us the Realm of Death. Among many other things. <br />This is a series of books that no reader (of whatever genre. i myself detest most schi-fi/fantasy, and much prefer crime/thriller. But this series has grown to become one of my favourites of all time) should ever pass by. There is such a rich casket of wonders presented to you in all 26 (so far) of his Discworld novels. And this is one of the real gems, along with The Truth, Soul Music, Reaper Man, Men At Arms, Carpe Jugulum, and Feet of Clay.	2002-05-18
1544969:US	40684262	R1H3QJCRZDQRYM	0792708229	761691187	Going Wrong (Paragon Large Print)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	cant fault her one iota	this is another excellent book by Rendell. It displaya all that she has come to be known for. Tight plotting. Realistic writing. Deadly accurate psychology. <br />Guys jealousy and obsession grow as the book goes on, and Rendell develops it's perfectly. <br />This is another of her best books, with a great cast of characters, and complex plot. The writing is excellent, and her stories are always topical and interesting. (This one having more than a little to do with the concept of stalking, and obsessive love.) Even though Guy is obsessed, the reader does feel sympathy with him because he truly does love Leonora. This brings the reader into a conflict of emotions, which is something that all good writers do. Even moreso because of the fact that Leonora's new love, William, is not a particularly likeable character. Coming across as slightly arrogant and full of himself. <br />Guys increasing paranoia is built up masterfully, and the conclusions is great. a wonderful release of tension. <br />Rendell cannot be faulted. She is truly the best.	2002-05-14
1551300:US	40684262	R1EJZ7SJ1ONUKD	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent (again)	Deaver's books just keep on getting better and better. This one is no exception. <br />All the usual characters are back in full force, as well as some new excellent subsidiary characters. John Sung, Sony Li, Sam Chang, and the captain of the Fuzhou Dragon, who, even though he only features in the first couple of chapters, is an incredibly strong presence. <br />Deaver packs it all again, knowing exactly what his readers want. Quirky characters, a quick, tense, suspenseful and original plot, which has complex and interesting twists. (It is a good thing that here he has cut down on his twists...he still has some (really good ones) but just not quite as many. sometimes he can go over the top.) The relationship between is Rhyme and Sachs is moving along nicely. I like the fact that Deaver is not rushing their relationship. It tells us a couple of things. First, the he plans at least several more Rhyme books, during which their relationship will progress. Second, he is a talented writer who thinks ahead. Some writers who write series characters develop their characters really well early on in a series, but in the later novels there is nothing left to develop, so the characters begin to seem wooden and very two dimensional. (james Patterson, this is you im talking about.) Wise writers choose to develop their characters more slowly, giving room for a series to seem fully developed. It is the mark of a really good writer that even though the characters are still being developed, they do seem fully fleshed out in all the novels, even though they are not fully devloped. Deaver manages to do this so well. There are still things we have yet to know about Rhyme and Sachs, but still their characters are wonderfully vivid. <br />there is less interaction in this novel between the two leads, because interaction is not always needed any more. Sachs KNOWS what Rhyme will say, she doesnt need to hear him say it. It shows how far their relationship has gone, and is a reflection of it.It also gives us an opportunity to see how both characters work almost on their own. When the two characters do interact, it really gives the reader a kick. This time round, Deaver concentrates a little more on his other stock characters (Dellray, Sellito, etc) and it gives the book a really good, well rounded feel. (Although i have always felt that Deaver sometimes gives Thom unnaceptably short shrift.) <br />Deaver does his research wonderfully, and his little tidbits about Chinese culture (and other things) which he feeds to the reader really are wonderful. <br />The beginning of the book is great. It begins with a scene of incredible suspense and does not let up all the way through. (It was almost as if i had stepped into the book right at the exciting climax.) I was amazed at how he built the suspense up so well over just a couple of pages. <br />Deaver's books always have essneitally very bad crimes in them, and wonderfully chilling villains. THis one is no exception. Justice is meted out in the end, as always. <br />A brilliant book. Possibly his best yet.	2002-05-08
1554470:US	40684262	RXTT37Y3N03FX	0671004530	362049018	On the Street Where You Live	Books	5	0	0	N	N	4 and a half stars. but lacks depth.	This is my first Mary Higgins Clark novel, and i shall definitely be reading more. This is a quick, exciting, tense, suspenseful read. However, it is quite short, and lacks depth of plot and character. Nonetheless, i fairly raced through this book, lapping up the original and complex plot. there are plenty of twists throughout, and an enjoyable ending. There are lots of characters, and it does get confusing at times. However, the fast pace of this book, the great suspense, and the compelling plot make this a very enjoyable read.	2002-05-06
1555521:US	40684262	R2HLN7TBQMRPUN	0312136056	83500402	The Song of a Dark Angel: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Hugh Corbett	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One of Doherty's best	I have read several (although by no means all) of Paul Doherty's medeavel mysteries, and this is one of the best ones. The plot is great, and moves at a brilliant pace. This book does not waffle (as some of his books occasionally do in some passages), and all the while it moves quickly along, and you keep turning those pages. The mystery is a very good one, as well. as convoluted and unguessable as ever. <br />The only thing i can really ever find fault with is the fact that Doherty does have a tendency to let modern ways of speaking seep into his prose. I know that we have no proof that these people didnt NOT speak like that, but to my ear it sounds a bit out of place. <br />Nonetheless, this is definitely one of his best mysteries so far, and i highly reccomend it to all lover of historical fiction.	2002-05-04
1555897:US	40684262	RSXSBT730CPFH	0671028367	666165371	Deadly Decisions (Temperance Brennan, No. 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good, but too complicated	THis, actually, is an incredibly good book, with an excellent plot and some really great characters. <br />However, it is spoilt by the fact that you need to read it about three times before youa actually get your head around all the things which have happened, who did what, when, why, etc etc. Its just so complicated and complex. <br />Her insights into forensic detail are, as always, excellent and interesting, adding authenticity to the book.  <br />Tempe is a very likeable, less driven and a bit more human than Scarpetta, possibly (i am a devoted Cornwell fan, by the way. She's my favourite author.) Her relationship with Ryan stalls somewhat in this book, (for reasons which are obvious once you read it) and that really is all it feels like. a staller. just something to draw the development of their relationship out so she can make it go on for a bit more books. In essence, this is actually a very good idea. There are many authors who write books with series cahracters, but they develop their characters well in the first couple of books, but leave nothing to work with in later novels, so the characters turn into stagnant card-board cut-outs, with no interest or anything new to add to them (James Patterson, i am talking to YOU!) Develop your characters too much too early on, it becomes a major problem later. (Jeffery Deaver is another excellent author who seems to have realised this problem, and is therefore developing his characters relationships very slowly) these devices can be frustrating for readers who want relationships to develop quickly, but i assure you, they are better in the long run. <br />Anyway, ive gone off point. <br />Reich's writing is sharp and interesting, her plotting is also good, but has a tendency to be too complex. (Death du Jour suffered from it too, but i got through that one much more easily.) Her characters are great, her settings also. <br />She packs real emotion into her books. Real feeling, Real compassion, and at times they can incredibly sad. (I am thinking now of the young girl slain by biker in this very book, the plane crash in Fatal Voyage, and the genocides in the forthcoming Grave Secrets.) <br />Basically, she is definitely worth a read, but this book is quite complicated, and you do have to concentrate incredibly hard to understand all the whys and wherefores of the plot. (Have no fear, though, Fatal Voyage, her next book, is completely free of this problem.)	2002-05-04
1557059:US	40684262	R2CW0FTAXI7MGR	0312958455	628100476	The Last Coyote (Harry Bosch #4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	another great book	Whilst i dont feel this is quite as good as his previous book, The Concrete Blonde, it is certainly quite close on it's heels. <br />Harry Bosch is getting a stronger character book by book, and his world even more gritty and realistic. <br />The plot isnt as good as that of The Concrete Blonde, but Connelly's writing has developed nicely...<br />This is a great great series, and this is sure to be one of the best entries.	2002-05-03
1557233:US	40684262	R2FM4Y183PV215	0553292722	94468636	Still Waters: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent	I love Hoag's writing. her subtle mixture of romance and whodunnit is a really compelling one. Her characters are superbly well drawn, her plots great, prose style absolutely stunning, ability to describe setting and way of life first class. I adore her books. She creates characters that you really really care for, and who are so so realistic. <br />If you like brilliantly written thrillers, with a wonderful cast of characters, a well weaved tapestry of occurences, and some romance thrown in for good measure, Tami Hoag is the author for you. <br />The solution is unexpected, and well brought off. THis is certainly more of a &quot;whodunnit&quot; style novel than many of her other thrillers.	2002-05-03
1558045:US	40684262	R283QOBJW32ZD9	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Rock and a hard place	I'm not sure how to review this book (again)...do i concentrate on the wonderful (if sometimes far too adolescent) humour? The rather amusing (yet ridiculous and sometimes annoying) characters? The incredibly interesting and refreshing (but once or twice drawn out) forways into the history of virginia? The interesting depictions of life on Tangier island, or the talking animals?<br />Either way, im not entirely sure. <br />This book, whatever people may say, does have some really good things going for it. I must say that i absolutely loved the humour, and found myself laughing out loud several times, as i saw what laid beneath the writing. It is not always that her writing is essneitall funny, it is just the ridiculous images that her words create which make you laugh. <br />The plot could do with being a bit tighter, admittedly. Some of the characters are a little ott on the stupid line. But the writing is still first class. The plot is amusing, if light-hearted. At times, particularly at the beginning of this book, there is real tension and fear in the writing when there is a killing. It really does show Cornwell's talent. At those times, the writing really does shine, and we are shown a glimpse of the Cornwell who writes the Scarpetta novels. <br />Scarpetta...who has a cameo in this novel. I can, however, see Cornwell's dilemma. Do i create a new medical examiner for virginia? No, of course i can't, because all the writers know that Kay is the chief medical examiner of virginia...oh dear, what a problem. So, to satisfy Scarpetta fans, and to assure continuity, she gives her a small role. Admittedly, she does seem a little wooden, though. but it's still great to see her in this book. <br />Overall, i found this to be a really very humourous book, a light read, which is enjoyable. I know there are people who don't agree, but i think they are probably taking their reading too seriously.	2002-05-02
1560291:US	40684262	R5UGP6HG53G86	0553278029	525224641	A Great Deliverance	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good, but doesn't stand out	actually, this is probably the worst in the series, to be blunt. <br />It's admittedly very well written, and a good mystery, with an unexpected solution (of the &quot;you think you knew it, but you really didn't&quot;, variety) But the book is a little short, i felt. I know i am probably comparing this to her later, longer books. But having read them, and also having read this, this book stands out as feeling a little underdeveloped compared to her others. the plot could be a bit more complex, and the character development is of  good average standard, but it isn't really anywhere near that of her later books. In comparison, this pales with many of her others. <br />The mystery is a nice one, the setting also well evoked, and the main detective are well drawn (but are probably about the only two ppl who are). The depictions of english life seem a bit...old-fashioned, but seeing as she is american, that is forgiveable. <br />All in all, this is a good novel by anyone's standards, but by Elizabeth George's, its not quite as worthy as some of her others. COudl do with being longer, but still comes reccomended as the start to a great series, and as such, you should give it a go.	2002-04-30
1560772:US	40684262	R1U23QY6NL0QK7	0553278029	525224641	A Great Deliverance	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good, but doesn't stand out	actually, this is probably the worst in the series, to be blunt. <br />It's admittedly very well written, and a good mystery, with an unexpected solution (of the &quot;you think you knew it, but you really didn't&quot;, variety) But the book is a little short, i felt. I know i am probably comparing this to her later, longer books. But having read them, and also having read this, this book stands out as feeling a little underdeveloped compared to her others. the plot could be a bit more complex, and the character development is of  good average standard, but it isn't really anywhere near that of her later books. In comparison, this pales with many of her others. <br />The mystery is a nice one, the setting also well evoked, and the main detective are well drawn (but are probably about the only two ppl who are). The depictions of english life seem a bit...old-fashioned, but seeing as she is american, that is forgiveable. <br />All in all, this is a good novel by anyone's standards, but by Elizabeth George's, its not quite as worthy as some of her others. COudl do with being longer, but still comes reccomended as the start to a great series, and as such, you should give it a go.	2002-04-30
1563135:US	40684262	R1PJC0AN1FB647	0425163407	529898130	Unnatural Exposure (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	carry on, patricia	this was the first Kay Scarpetta book i ever read. It is what got me hooked. Since then, i have read better ones, and worse ones. But none of them have been bad. <br />This is another great one. The plot is nicely original, fast paced, and punchy. The writing is the same. (I love her writing)<br />Kay is back, and her usual superwoman self. Lucy too is back, but here seems far more human and likeable than in some of the other books. (but hey, i still like ger a great deal. i dont know what most people's problem is with her.)<br />Theres some more good forensic detail (although often she needs to explain things just a tad more) which adds dimension to the book, and even more interest. <br />really, theres not a lot i can say about this book, apart from repeating things that i have said about all her others, which i cant really be bothered to do. Rest assured, though, that here again Patricia Cornwell has produced another excellent forensic thriller that is easy to read, with a superb writing style. Highly reccomended. (As are all her books.)	2002-04-28
1563587:US	40684262	R3TWPMJ7SY5ZR7	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	another excellent book	although sometimes her books can ramble on a bit, and the writing be a bit too wordy, this one has found the perfect balance. <br />The writing is somewhat less...intellectual, that some of her other books, and this, if anything, makes the book even better. The plot is a cracker, and she writes it in such a way that it is strikingly realistic (as are all her books). The characters are likeable, and well developed, and there are twists aplenty to be had. <br />Its great to learn a little more about AD's past, and even see a glimmer of romance on the horizon for him. <br />Overall, this is an incredibly good detective novel. The plot is great, the solution satisfactory. The writing is absolutely first class. a wonderful cast of characters, and an excellent setting packed with atmosphere. Very well done. It still does not quite top &quot;Original Sin&quot; as my favourite P.D. James book, but it is about on a par with &quot;A Certain Justice&quot; as my second.	2002-04-28
1564852:US	40684262	R2CL95CNO1FL2A	1580600492	810470150	L is for Lawless	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My favourite.	I've read them all, and this is my favourite. <br />The plot is great, and the book moves along at a really fast pace. For the first half of the book i just couldn't stop turning those pages. Kinsey is great as usual. The plotting is tight, the use of humour just right, and the recurring subsidiary characters (Henry, Rosie, etc) are all back in full force. They're really a wonderful cavalcade of characters. <br />The only thing which lets this book down only slightly is the fact that the fast pace lets up around the halfway mark, and isn't reached again. It's not quite as exciting as the first half, and returns to the normal Sue Grafton pace. (Not in itself a bad thing) it's just that after such an exciting first half, the second half seems a bit too slow. <br />Nonetheless, great book. Exciting, intriguing, perfect plot. Best in the series. Wonderful fun.	2002-04-26
1565124:US	40684262	R3N9R8DIHUKU2I	1580600492	810470150	L is for Lawless	Books	5	2	4	N	N	My favourite.	I've read them all, and this is my favourite. <br />The plot is great, and the book moves along at a really fast pace. For the first half of the book i just couldn't stop turning those pages. Kinsey is great as usual. The plotting is tight, the use of humour just right, and the recurring subsidiary characters (Henry, Rosie, etc) are all back in full force. They're really a wonderful cavalcade of characters. <br />The only thing which lets this book down only slightly is the fact that the fast pace lets up around the halfway mark, and isn't reached again. It's not quite as exciting as the first half, and returns to the normal Sue Grafton pace. (Not in itself a bad thing) it's just that after such an exciting first half, the second half seems a bit too slow. <br />Nonetheless, great book. Exciting, intriguing, perfect plot. Best in the series. Wonderful fun.	2002-04-26
1565400:US	40684262	R1L3UYNGSFDRO5	034543448X	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	good stand-alone	this book is actually teetering on the halfway mark between four and five.<br />This is a very good standalone novel from Crais. The plot is good, very original. the writing is as humane as ever, and the writing about the bomb-squad procedures is interesting and well researched.<br />Carol Starkey is a very good character, well developed, and real. There are few male authors who can write accurately form a female perspective, but Robert Crais appears to be one of the exceptions. She is believeable and interesting. I would like to read more books about her. The way her relationship with Pell grows is also really well written and paced. Also, somewhat touching.<br />The conclusion is thrilling and the solution satisfactory.<br />Its good to know that his talents dont just lie with the Pike/Cole series, and that he can write different types of books. Shows range, which is always good.<br />Well done RC, a compelling and well written thriller.	2002-04-26
1565549:US	40684262	R2J0AV8EU5V6D9	1580600492	810470150	L is for Lawless	Books	5	0	2	N	N	My favourite.	I've read them all, and this is my favourite. <br />The plot is great, and the book moves along at a really fast pace. For the first half of the book i just couldn't stop turning those pages. Kinsey is great as usual. The plotting is tight, the use of humour just right, and the recurring subsidiary characters (Henry, Rosie, etc) are all back in full force. They're really a wonderful cavalcade of characters. <br />The only thing which lets this book down only slightly is the fact that the fast pace lets up around the halfway mark, and isn't reached again. It's not quite as exciting as the first half, and returns to the normal Sue Grafton pace. (Not in itself a bad thing) it's just that after such an exciting first half, the second half seems a bit too slow. <br />Nonetheless, great book. Exciting, intriguing, perfect plot. Best in the series. Wonderful fun.	2002-04-26
1565701:US	40684262	RW2GZ0EH9RXSR	0553572512	228304751	Playing for the Ashes	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The best one yet	This, basically, normal George. Exactly what we have come to expect from a practioner of some really beautiful english language.<br />Her books are always incredibly involving, centring not just on the lives of the main characters, but featuring lives of all the subisidiary characters heavily. This makes the book feel more realisitc, lifelike. More true. After all, it is more like a proper murder case.<br />The writing is excellent. Sometimes she needs to learn the secret of brevity, though. Also, on occasion she takes the \\"show, don't tell\\" rule a bit too far. Nonetheless, her writing is often beautiful, complex, and a joy to read.<br />Her characters are so well developed. Its more like watching a real-life drama than it is reading a book. All their small insecurities, personality traits, personal relationships, interactions with other characters, are brought to the fore, making them jump off the page, and sometimes going a bit over the top. (Which is Elizabeth George's only crime.)<br />This is probably the best book, in terms of plotting, solution, structure, etc. The parrallel tracks the story runs on are done gloriously well, and they finally both converge together brilliantly. The solution is unexpted, and the culprit a surprise.<br />Overall, this is a very good crime novel, but it does suffer a bit from some of George's normal flaws. Her depictions of english life are apt to be a little off and over the top. SHe sometimes takes character development too far. And most of the books are a bit too long.<br />Nonetheless, i can live with all that. After all, this is still a really good mystery.	2002-04-26
1568753:US	40684262	R9TDE7GABH2XM	0446679208	319472554	The Children of Men	Books	5	9	13	N	N	She is no mere crime writer. This is a WRITER.	This is a great book. P. D. James has clearly displayed that she can suceed at anything she turns her hand to. i even found myself enjoying this novel even more than some of the Dalgliesh books.<br />There is one word that can describe this book. That word is............Lovely...........mainly because it is. The plot is, perhaps somewhat simple, but that just makes for an easier read. and it does start fairly slowly. But it is lovely. Aside from being a futuristic novel, it is also a very tender lovestory. One of the things that make this book great is the fact that it is a nice old fashioned story. Some of the ideas Ms James had are now, clearly not correct, but could well have been. everything she has written is the product of a very logical mind and, if things had gone differently, none of them are beyond the bounds of our imaginations. Some of the things she writes even seem comical compared to now. Which, whilst probably not intentional, does add flavour to the story. There is also good, adventure, intirgue, action, etc.<br />Well done, I would reccomend this to one and all as proof of Ms James title as one of the best writer's the world has ever seen. I shall savour every one of her novels, because i only expect there to be two, possibly three, more, because, let's face it people, she won't be around for ever, enjoy her while you can!!!!	2002-04-23
1569249:US	40684262	R3RQ2OB38CC132	0553571885	34141079	A Thin Dark Line	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another great book	She can write anything. She has never failed to suceed at what she turns her hand to. This book i no exception. <br />There is little i can say about Tami Hoag that i have not already said. I adore her writing style, i adore her beautiful character development and creation, i absolutely love her plots, and i love the fact that these are nice big book which i can really get mt teeth into. <br />Not only does she make it a crime novel, she makes it a people novel. It is a book about the characters, and how everything is affecting them. The personal issues they have to face, the inner conflicts, the outer conflicts with other people, and self discovery. She writes about events in such a compelling way. Adds simple, realistic things into the plot, and that is what makes her stand out. Her characters and situations in which they are in are always so very real, realistic, and vivid. She cannot be faulted. (i.e. the emotion and tough decision Annie faces and has to make when confronted with what to do when she finds Nick in the parking lot with the suspect. It is Hoags exploration into these sorts of events which make her brilliant.)<br />The plot here is great, chilling and strangely haunting. The setting is evoked well, and adds something to the mystery. (However, i must warn you that this book is set in the same place as her previous &quot;Cry Wolf&quot;, and as such the killer in that book is disclosed here. I made the mistake of reading this one first.) The solution is also really unexpected.<br />You can't praise her enough. This isn't her best book, but it still gets five stars. I can say that of very few authors.	2002-04-23
1569845:US	40684262	R1ZPT6D0QXDPN4	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Second Strike	This book continues the marvellous achievement of the first, and even furthers it. <br />This novel is probably even better than the first one. (And the Third is even better than this.) The initial characters are all back, and this time we are introduced to Will, who is an ideal companion for Lyra. Just as interesting (possibly moreso due to the fact that he has no daemon, which causes interesting discussion.) and equally well drawn. <br />The writing is as cracking as it was in the first, and the setting is evoked really well, as is the terror felt by the people of Citagezze, and the loneliness of the place. Also, there is a wonderful juxtaposition of the evil of the spectres, and the jaded innocence of the children who are able to inhabit the world.<br />Another wonderful book.	2002-04-23
1569982:US	40684262	R173X5UJ6TOQ9V	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kicks off to a great start	THis review is possibly somewhat jaded in the fact that i have read all the proceeding books in the trilogy as well, and i shall be reviewing this novel with an eye to knowing what is going to happen. <br />As the start of the trilogy, you will find no more worthy a novel. The characters are drawn so well, they are so human and you care about them incredibly much. The settings are brilliant. It switches around the world, Oxford, the North, with speed, yet you hardly notice the transition. Pullman's writing is strangely lyrical and superbly evocative. THis is like reading a big long poem packed full of humanity and plot. <br />Pullman also creates really good subsidiary characters, Serafina, Iorek, Lee, etc. And the battles in this book (and the follwing ones) with the strange creatures, only serve to send this trilogy further down the \\"Classics of the genre\\" road, to stand alongside The Lord of the Rings, and other such works.<br />He has been compared to being on a par J.K. Rowling. (No professional reviewer would have the nous to proclaim him as \\"better\\", sadly)<br />That comparison is nonsense. He really is far far better. The writing is better. The book has much more depth. The characters are more interesting and varid, and the plots of each novel are not so repetative. <br />the ending of this one really leaves your mouth watering for the next.	2002-04-23
1573750:US	40684262	R1I9N0SGUHXTU	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Brilliantly chilling thriller	Deja Dead, i dont think, was quite the thriller everyone made it out to be. It was good, yeah, probably meriting about four stars, but it was not THAT good. It wasn't as good as debut as Boston Teran's, Minette Walters', Patricia Cornwell's. However, with this second novel, she really packs a punch. <br />The chill of the canadian weather really pervades the story, working its way into the writing and feeling of the story. It is brilliantly evoked, and works well with the nature of the book itself. <br />Being a huge Cornwell fan, i have to say that i do believe Tempe to be better company. She is less driven (some would not take this as a plus) she is more well rounded, and she is a bit more interesting. Her relationship with Ryan develops well and interestingly. <br />The plot is a cracker. Which is something Reichs is excellent at. All of her books from here on in have absolutely fantastic plots. Deadly Decisions has a great plot, but is still a weak book, but Fatal Voyage has an absolute stunner of a plot. Grave Secrets, her next, looks to have one as well. <br />While this plot is not quite as good as that of Fatal Voyage, it nearly is. It is intriguing, exciting, haunting, complex. If anything, too complex. (That is the thing Deadly Decisions suffered from.) The conclusion is great. <br />A cast of great characters, some great writing, a great atmopshere, great forensic detail, and a brilliant plot make this book well worth a read.	2002-04-19
1574057:US	40684262	R3AII76DDIID3S	0553295349	94468636	Lucky's Lady (Doucet)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Her worst	I don't know what it is about this...i just didn't like it half as much as her others. ALl her wonderful and colourful characters are here as per usual, but the plot and book lacks a certain something. the people interact wonderfully, and the plot follows behind them. I think in this one she got the balance a bit wrong.<br />The plot is good, but there is no real mystery. I wouldn't normally mind this, if it was only professing to be a romance, i would be perfectly happy to read it. But it wasn't. It was trying to be a crime thriller, and it just wasn't. Magic was a far better example of her when she wants to write a romance with a tinge of mystery. With this one, the balance is off kilter, and the thriller part of the plot seems 2d.<br />Much more interesting is the fight for the native lands of the french triangle. If she had just left it at that, the book would have been fine. But she went a bit too far.<br />Nonetheless, this still contains all her usual trademarks. An excellently evoked setting, and some great characters. She is the best character writer in the business.<br />But hey, if this is her worst, and it still gets three stars, that must be a good thing, right?	2002-04-19
1574372:US	40684262	R9E2FYF3IO29H	0451176464	591143364	Gerald's Game (Signet)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Different, still excellent	First and foremost, King is just a plain writer. He is not a horror writer, he is a writer. And for that reason, this book cannot be classified as \\"different King\\", because all his books are different, and many of them, like this, are not strictly speaking horror.<br />The basis for the story is simple: a wife and husband engaging in a sexual act whereupon it is necesarry for her to be handcuffed to the bed. the husband, during this act, dies of a heart attack, leaving the woman bound to the bed, in a shack in a wood, alone for miles, no one to set her free. <br />A rather simple premise, and it seemed to me at first that it would have to be an absolutely excellent writer who could sustain interest in the story of a woman in a room for 400 pages. <br />He did it. <br />I was expecting boredom at times. but i found none. This is a wonderful psychological thriller, and the character of Jessie is drawn with such realism that she just jumps off the page. King really gets into that womans head. (He can do it with anything. Men, women, kids, even animals.) <br />The story of Jessie's life and that of her current ordeal are told brilliantly together as they run parrallel to one another. They give the story dimension. <br />The sparring of all Jessie's voices keep the story moving on, and the gradual building up of her life story keeps the suspense going. (As well as the fact of \\"will she get out alive\\")<br />The inclusion of some possible horror/supernatural theme again gives the book dimension, and makes it even more compelling and unsetlling to read. Due to the nature of the story, the reader really doesnt think Jessie is seeing any king of supernatural being and that it is all in her mind , but the reader has forgotten the nature of King. The surprise twist at the end is good. <br />All in all, this is another excellent book by King. Very different, but still a great psychological thriller. If you liked this you should read \\"The Crocodile Bird\\" by Ruth Rendell, a storywhose layout is sort of similar. <br />However, as always, things annoyed me with this King book. He always manages to somehow, but neverly majorly. The things which niggle me don't spoil my enjoyment of the book, nor are they really worth mentioning, but here goes: The ridiculous last names almost all the characters in this book. Some of them are just laughable. Not a normal surname amongst 'em. Also, the ending does hold a certain \\"and then i woke up\\" quality. It is definitely not like that, by any means, but it does convey that feeling, just a little.	2002-04-19
1577480:US	40684262	RDGAWHSXRRWOC	0671026011	430524886	The Empty Chair (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I've found it	Found what?<br />The best Jeffery Deaver novel so far!<br />I came to this novel, a grin on my fave. 599 pages (English paperback edition) of a Jeffery Deaver adventure lay afore me. I couldn't wait to read it. A little tingle came over me, and i knew from the sound of the book that it was going to be good. I couldn't wait to get stuck in. <br />And i wasn't disappointed one bit. <br />This is  thoroughly excellent book, utterly enjoyable, and superbly thrilling. It is definitely Jeffery Deaver's best yet. <br />I loved the wonderfully involved and complex plot, the wonderfully well drawn characters, and the ever developing relationship between Rhyme (who is a thouroughly brilliant protagonist) and Sachs (perfect as his partner.) His writing is sharp, terse, tense, and to the point. Nary a word is wasted in his thrill-fest of twists and turns, coupled with some devilishly clever plotting. <br />This one i loved, the best, out of all his thrillers so far. The setting was so well evoked, and Rhyme's clever deduction is a as compelling as ever. <br />This is a highly reccomended novel, many many pages of a wonderful story, packed full of Deaver's trademark twists (although once he does go a bit over the top). Nevertheless, and exhillarating read. Buy it now.	2002-04-16
1581454:US	40684262	R8B7RSEMTXHEF	0440226236	153890219	The Death Pit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I wish he'd written more...	I wish Tony Strong had written more books!<br />I loved the last one, and this second is equally as good, if not better!<br />He has an unquestionable grasp of the english language. I found his prose style refreshing and compelling.<br />The characters are all well drawn and interesting. <br />The plot is an absolute cracker. He mixes the two strands with effortless ease, and they run on parrallel brilliantly. He juggled them excellent, and each one adds flavour to the story. <br />The conclusion is excellent, just as exciting as that of his previous novel. <br />I sped through this book in two days, and i loved every page. the visit to the orphanage is incredibly harrowing, and i felt very moved by it. I also adore the way these two books are both, essentially, classic mystery novels, but they have a brilliantly dark contemporary twist. <br />Excellent, yet again Tony. I cannot wait to read \\"The Decoy\\"!	2002-04-13
1581499:US	40684262	R1JKGXPVKMGXD1	0451188454	582723746	The Bone Collector: The First Lincoln Rhyme Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First in a great series	I'm currently reading \\"The Empty Chair\\" and im loving it. I think it is probably the best Lincoln Rhyme yet...and to think, this was the novel that started it all.<br />The two characters of Rhyme and Sachs are excellently drawn, and they work so well together. Lincoln Rhyme can at times be incredibly annoying, but Deaver's portrayal of him is realisitc and compelling.<br />The plot here is excellent. I love Deaver's deadlines every few hours style of writing, and i love his twists and turns. I agree that sometimes he goes over the top with them, but they still make for a really incredible and powerful story.<br />The way Rhyme deduces so much from such little evidence is startling...a bit unrealistic, but nonetheless adds to the enjoyment of the plot.<br />The climax is great, really exciting. And the way Rhyme deals with the killer is ingenious!<br />This book comes very highly reccomended.	2002-04-13
1586797:US	40684262	R1298PQHD303C5	0440225833	642041993	Asking for the Moon (Dalziel and Pascoe Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A sterling collection	this is a great collection of short stories from one of britain's leading writers. <br />It is more laden with humour than many of the novels, but that is mainly due to the capacity for some hilarious in-jokes which Hill includes. <br />\\"The Last National Service Man\\" is a more a comedy than a crime story. There are elements of crime, but imagining Dalziel (pronounced \\"Dee-ell\\") jogging up and down on the spot in army regalia is just side-splitting! It's a taut, well written story, and does have some great suspense in it at times. The solution is also quite clever, but a bit of a cop out, i feel. <br />\\"Pascoes ghost\\" is another good story, it is well plotted, with more than it's fair share of well drawn characters with interesting and varied motives. Here, the mystery is first class, enough, really, to support an almost full-length novel. The solution is satisfying, in typical Hill style. The climax is also very exciting. <br />\\"Dalziel's Ghost\\" is not so much a crime story, as just a story. It's very much a ponderance upon the characters of Dalziel and Pascoe (but to a lesser extent). There is little real mystery to it at all, but it is still intensely interesting, cleverly plotted, and has another great and somewhat amusing twist at the end!<br />\\"One Small Step\\" is perhaps the best in this collection, offering us a Hill's-eye look at what he thinks life may be like on the future, and the events which have caused the first murder on the moon. (As a crime-fiction concept, it is so original as to deserve a standing ovation.) Again, there are loads of in-jokes, but this time we are treated to a first class mystery story. This is another one which could well support a really cracking full-length novel. The solution is satisfyingly convoluted and multi-faceted, until you really realise what's  going on (God forbid taht anyone should underestimate Dalziel! Pascoe should have known better!) Excellent. <br />All in all, if you like good short stories, give this a go. Ifyou are a Dalziel and Pascoe fan, give this a go. (especially as it catalogues their first meeting.) If you like a good yarn, of any kind, give this a go. If you like good writing with great characters, give this a go.	2002-04-09
1589634:US	40684262	R290A0AAVCYYS0	0425182681	89355361	The Keys of Hell (Paul Chavasse)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good, not great	Jack Higgins has certainly given us another of his high-powered action thrillers. The pace is so quick, the plot twists like a snake, the writing is taut and to the point. All good things. <br />However, even though the characters are likeable, they are not parituclarly developed. That, I feel, is often Higgins's letdown. He gets so wrapped up in the action that he forgets to give his characters deep personalities. Instead, we just see snapshots of people who, really, could be any hero from any thriller novel. All he really does is gives his characters names and then inserts those names into the story. The characters are just there to keep the plot moving along. The problem is that practically all the people in this novel are interchangeable with those of another. For example, Chevasse shares almost exactly the same personality traits as Sean Dillon. As does Liri, who is Jack Higgins's typical lead woman. they are all the same, in all his novels. Their names and pasts just change. <br />That said, this is still a very good book. The pace never lets up, it's a pageturner and it's quick. If you like a good action thriller and don't particulalry mind about characters, then this is the book for you. (Even if the margins on the English edition are ridiculously big.)	2002-04-07
1591556:US	40684262	R1T0EUQIIXGN1F	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Up there with the best	This is another excellent entry in the Alphabet series. Sue Grafton's writing is taut and keeps the reader turning the pages really quickly. This book simply breezed by.<br />Kinsey is a great character, and wonderful company for the4 hours or so spent reading this book. She is amusing, resourceful, morally upright, and very likeable!<br />The plot here is great, allowing for an interesting investigation into the disappearance of the good Dcotor. His two wives are well drawn characters, and inflect the plot with many an interesting moment!<br />It was also good to see one of the characters from &quot;J&quot; crop up again. I always get a little thrill when i meet a character who i can connect to another story.<br />This book has several strands to it, the main inveatigation, the shady brothers selling Kinsey her apartment, and the &quot;misplaced&quot; money. The only problem i have with this book is that only one of these strands is actually explained to the reader fully. The explanations to the other two are not exaplained to the reader at all, and you really have to figure it out for yourself. All the info you need is there, but it takes another careful read of the book to actually be able to know how it was done. However, i suppose, if you read it carefully in the first place, that wouldn't be such a problem. So, this is definitely a book which rewards concentrated and careful reading.<br />All in all, the final solution (one worked out) is a very good one, and this an extremely good addition to the series. It has humour, great characters, a great plot, and Kinsey. what more could you ask for?<br />Oh yes, another little quibble. There is incredibly little &quot;Peril&quot; involved.	2002-04-05
1591713:US	40684262	ROII8RJ5A2O50	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Granny = great	This book is a very worthy book in the Discworld series, not least because it is the first appearance of Granny Weatherwax, who along with Nanny Ogg and Magrat, are my favourite of all terry pratchett's characters. The witches books are simply the best.<br />This one has a great premise...a girl who is destined to be a wizard. Will she become one, or will the chauvinistic &quot;lore&quot; stand in her way? It's not quite as funny as some of the other discworld books, but when it is, it's hilarious.<br />This is quite a dark book, really, and pterry is often at his best when he is dark. In this case, it is perhaps not so. However, this is still a great, with an inventive and amusing premise, which more than satisfactorily carries the tale to it's conclusion. Lovely. The only thing i dont like about the first few Pratchett books is that they're so short!	2002-04-05
1592601:US	40684262	R2DG02MD89TCA9	055356451X	636592968	Night Sins (Deer Lake)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	*sigh* Hoag is the best	The words to describe the quality of her books don't exist. I'll tell you that right from the start. I have read all of her books, and i disliked not a single one. <br />I've reviewed many a Hoag book, and basically, my reviews always centre around a couple of main points. <br />Her stunning characters. I think Hoag is probably the best writer out there for the creation of human, believeable, compelling, realistic, interesting, characters. They leap off the page at you. You care about them, and when the books end you are sad to see them go, as you want to keep reading about their lives, to see what happens, and if things are okay for them. What makes them so vibrant and vivid is the fact that she draws their lives in good detail...she fully fleshes them out, and she inflects their lives with details which make them breath. She gives them worries, joys, anexities, all sorts of things. and not only does she do this, but she also does not tell the story solely about the murder. Other things happen in her characters lives AS WELL AS murder. It makes the world she creates far more rounded and realistic. Another of her many strengths are her subsidiary character. they are bright, colourful, interesting, and add spice to the story. <br />Her writing is one of the other stunning things. her prose is taut and vivid. her descriptions are beautiful. she really paints a picture for you with her words. I love being transported to the places she creates with her writing. <br />Her setting are also excellent. She conveys place excellently, especially with her books set in the french Triangle. And this tale of murder in a small Minesotta town is also hugely realistic and strikes many notes of truth. <br />Lastly, her plots. Not too far fetched, but still compelling, exciting, sometimes frightening, sometimes disturbing. <br />This is perhaps one of her best plots ever. A chilling, disturbing tale about the abduction of a child from a small community. Enter police, press, distraughtparents, suspects, and the like. <br />It starts with a great kick with josh kirkwood going missing, and doesn't let up. i couldn't stop turning those pages. Tami Hoag is a highly reccomended author, and this is an EXTREMELY highly reccomended thriller. I absolutely loved the ending. And i lapped up the equally excellent sequel \\"Guilty As Sin\\" as soon as i had finished this book.	2002-04-05
1594241:US	40684262	R3S081YOIRYBTP	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	His best yet!	I have only read the first three of these (savouring my way through the series) but so far, this is far and away the best! This is a corker of a book. <br />Connelly hand;es the parrallel plots (investigation into the new Dollmaker body and the court case) with the skill of a master.<br />Both the plot twines are superb, and so well plotted and written. They are full of tension and surprise. The legal-thriller side of the book is even more compelling than Grisham. It rings with authenticity and is exciting and tense. I loved following the case, and trying to decide which way the veridct would go, what else would happen during the course of the trial, etc. <br />The investigation into the new Dollmaker body is also great. It is puzzling, intriguing, suspenseful, exciting, and a whole load of other adjectives. Due to both the plots running next to each other i just couldn't stop turning those pages. The book always felt fresh and readable because of the fact that the focus on plot kept switching between the court and the Dollmaker case. <br />Harry Bosch is a great character. And i do wish he and Sylvia would work it out. She is a good match for him, and they would be a good couple. Bosch needs a bit of romance in his life to stop his character from getting stagnant.... <br />The plot is so well devised and drawn that i was amazed. It is so completely original. I have never read anything quite like it. Intriguing, different, exciting, compelling, taut. I couldn't wait to find out how everything was going to resolve itself. <br />And, boy, was it a cracking resolution! I loved the ending, and the solution to whodunnit. I never saw it coming, evne though by rights i probably should have. Also, the final death is quite upsetting to the reader, because even though the victim has been against Bosch for much of the book, she is still quite a likeable character, and you can sense that Bosch likes her and respects her too. <br />A great book. <br />(For all who like Michael Connelly, i have to reccomend Ian Rankin to you. He is the Scottish Michael Connelly. (Actually, to be more accurate, Michael Connelly is the American Ian Rankin, as Rankin has been writing for longer.) Rankin's novels are very similar in mood, plot, sense of place, and character. Bosch is very like Rankin's lead character Rebus. Bosch was in Vietnam, Rebus was in the SAS. Rebus is flawed, as is Bosch. They are both somewhat unsucessful with women, and can't seem to keep a relationship going for long. Connelly's LA shimmers with life, and Rankin's Edinburgh literally breathes and pulses like an entity. The plots are also similar in style. If you are a fan of Connelly, you should really like Rankin.)	2002-04-03
1596504:US	40684262	R1AHFDKKJYHUR3	0340750626	868361693	The Evidence Exposed	Books	4	26	28	N	N	An excellent collection of short stories	These are great. They are all different, all entertaining, all well written. <br />The title story is perhaps the worst of the collection. The solution to the whole thing is a bit silly. the motive for the killing just not believeable...but up until then it is a stunning short story. There is a memorable cast of eccentric characters who are really well drawn and believeable, in true George style. <br />The second story \\"I, Richard\\" is perhap a little long, but nonetheless it is an interesting character study on people's motives, also it is very good in that it provides some really interesting tidbits of historical english detail (which even I, as a person from england, did not fully know). The twist at the end is a surprise, and also quite amusing. The lead character in the story is not a likeable man, and he really gets some compuppeance!<br />\\"The Surprise of His Life\\" the final story in this collection is also very good. They all are very good showcases on human weakness and what will drive people to murde.r this story to some extene deals with paranoia and obsession leading to a tragic death. the build up to the death is suspenseful and intriguing. Yet again, when we think everything is all going along smoothly, George pulls the wool over the reader's eyes once again with another nice sting in the tail. <br />All in all, this collection has flaws (perhaps the middle story is a little long. the solution to the first story is not very  believeable) which is why it gets four stars. But overall, the quality of these short stories is very good, and they are a nice little treat to tide you over until her next full-length novel.	2002-04-02
1596759:US	40684262	R2642PPJDJFAG	0553561618	806983409	Dark Paradise: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Different, but still good	Tami Hoag amazes me. Her range is astounding, and her ability to create  credible characters who are likeable, plots which are far-fetched but made realistic by the quality of her well drawn characters, and also to evoke different settings is quite stunning. <br />This time she moves her action to Montanna. This is a different sort of thriller, i think. Although i can't put my finger on why. It is not a &quot;whodunnit&quot; exactly, in the strictest sense of the phrase, but it is still a crime novel and a darn good thriller. <br />Her usual mix of romance and thriller enriches all her plots, this one included. They give her writing an extra dimension, and they add even more realism to the stories she tells. <br />Her characters always blow me away. They are so...real. they jump of the page at you. You really feel for them. In their dillemmas, in their good times. (That is another reason why Hoag is so realistic. Her characters are not solely effected by the murders. As well as being effected by them, they are also effected by other things not connected to the killings, as normal people would be. Things such as lifestyle, relationships, family, illness, and her common theme of beautiful landscapes being torn down and misused to make way for the modern world.)<br />The plot of this book is a good one, but i am surprised that it carried the novel for as long as it did. by rights, a plot like this should perhaps have taken up about a hudred less pages. Testament to Hoag's brilliance is that even though the book is perhaps overlong, i never felt that whilst reading it. i was always waiting eagerly for what would happen next, which turn the story would take. not once was i bored, due in part to her the engaging world which she creates. <br />The climax to the book is great. Exciting and pulse-pounding. <br />This book is another great one from Tami Hoag.	2002-04-02
1598387:US	40684262	R12DO1Y70VWPP8	0399148337	131083538	Midnight Runner	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Another great Dillon adventure	jack Higgins is fantastic. his last two books really blew me away, and now he's back! Some readers of the last two books were somewhat disappointed due to 2d characters and underdeveloped plot...i can assure you, this time he lacks in no department! I am sure you'll find this a return to form. <br />I myself didn't mind the last books, i thought they were two of his best. fast paced and exciting. Edge of Danger provided some really really compelling characters. And this book continued that trend. it shows us more of Kate rashid, and brings in the excellent Daniel Quinn, who i would love to see again. <br />The writing is first class. Some writers over-write, too complicated and hard to understand, and some writers underwrite, with oversimplification. But jack higgins gets its absolutely perfect. Sean Dillon is great, and all the other regulars are back with force. <br />The plot here is good, although i didnt feel it was quite as good as his previous two. there is less action, and it's not quite as fast paced. However, the characters are still strong. I was a bit disappointed with the fact that Kate Rashid wasn't really \\"after\\" Dillion, as i had been lead to believe. I was looking forward to a book where the tables had been turned on the heroes and they were now the ones being hunted. Really hunted.<br />Another quibble...the number of times Higgins mentiond \\"unleavened bread\\" and \\"saville row\\" suits, really got on my nerves. Does he have to tell us the type of bread every time? Does he only know of one type of suit? (For almost all of the characters, at one point or another in the book, turnbed up wearing a savilel row suit.)<br />one of the other things i have really loved about this book and the last is the setting. They speed around the globe from the Us to London to the Hazar. the landscape of the hazar really is great, and a perfect setting for a thriller novel. <br />Something else i rather liked with this novel was that it was slightly hypocrtical of itself.Kate rashid is embarking upon her vendetta due to the fact that Sean Dillion killed her brothers. But then, during the course of this book, the daughter of Daniel Quinn is killed, and then he vows vengeance. They are in exactly the same situation. It seems to say \\"well, if Quinn can have vengeance, what is wrong with Kate Rashid wanting it too?\\" <br />Another interesting point in the past three books has been the way that the character of Billy Salter has grown up. We first (i think) met him in Day of Reckoning, where he was just a slightly naive young lad looking for a good fight to prove himself in. Now, over the course of these books he has really grown up in his attitudes, and it's been fascinating to watch. <br />This is yet another winner from Jack higgins.	2002-04-01
1598709:US	40684262	R14ROY6Q99SFTB	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	5	11	17	N	N	After a few hit-and-miss affairs, he's back on track	I don't know about you, but whenever i am confronted with a new James Patterson book, i always allow myself a small tingle of anticipation as i open that first page. I know i'm in for a great ride. When that ride is not as good as i hoped (See Violets are Blue, Pop Goes the Weasle) the disappointment is profound. but when it isn't, that just sets you off eagerly awaiting the next one even more.<br />This book was released in the US a couple of weeks before it was in the UK, so i was able to read the reviews of it to see what i would be in for. Would he have imrpoved on his last book? i was glad to see that it apparently had.<br />And, i can confirm that yes, this book is a fine return to form from James Patterson.<br />1st to Die was a very fine thriller, but there was no character development, the writing was oversimplified, and the plot resolution was overly complicated. I like twists, but not ones i have trouble understanding. The most simple twists are the most effective. That said, i enjoyed the first outing in the \\"Women's Murder Club\\" series (even though the club has incredibly little relevance to the case's investigation. and just seems like a device for Patterson to give in to sentimentality and girl-ish ness which i'm sure is a little patronising to some women.) It had potential. And now, with 2nd Chance, James Patterson has realised that potential, and has brought us his best serial-killer thriller since Cat And Mouse. Roses are Red was a fine book, but too short and with a dubious end. Pop Goes The Weasle was just silly. Violets Are Blue was awful. 1st to Die suffered a little from oversimplification. But now, he has really returned to form.<br />Whilst this still doesn't contain the great writing he showed us in his first couple of books, it is still an excellent thriller. the plot is great, He doesn't overcomplicate it, and adds a really great twist at the end which works really well, precisely because it is simple. Yet still shocking and unexpected.<br />Character development has really been lacking in some of his latest books, but with this book the character development is very good. it's subtle so that you're not really aware of it, but it's definitely there. This time around the four women are much more rounded and believeable characters. His subsidiary characters are also drawn very well and effectively. They add weight to the story.<br />In Violets Are Blue there were far too many killings, practically one every ten pages. Here he has wisely cut down on the deaths. This adds much more emotion to the book, and we get time to feel sad at the character's deaths. As well as there actually being some real investigation, which makes for compelling reading (especially when Lindsay goes to visit Weiscz in the prison, a la \\"Silence of the Lambs\\").<br />The inclusion of Lindsay's father into the complex plot is good, and again gives weight to the story and Lindsay's character. It makes it more personal and interesting to read.<br />Overall, this is a very good thriller. Everything has been improved upon since his latest efforts. the plot is exciting, the book is a pageturner, full of emotion (which Patterson is undeniably very good at evoking). This new series is definitely going to shine. I cannot wait for the 3rd installment...<br />I am not naive, i realise that this book was co-authored with someone else. I expect that that is the reason why it is such an improvement. I suspect that this book is good not because of James Patterson, but because of Andrew gross. I think people should be aware of the fact that the improvement is likely to be due to the efforts of Mr Gross, and, as such, we should thank heaven for him. Well done Mr Gross :)d. <br />Character development has really been lacking in some of his latest books, but with this book the character development is very good. it's subtle so that you're not really aware of it, but it's definitely there. This time around the four women are much more rounded and believeable characters. His subsidiary characters are also drawn very well and effectively. They add weight to the story. <br />In Violets Are Blue there were far too many killings, practically one every ten pages. Here he has wisely cut down on the deaths. This adds much more emotion to the book, and we get time to feel sad at the character's deaths. As well as there actually being some real investigation, which makes for compelling reading (especially when Lindsay goes to visit Weiscz in the prison, a la \\"Silence of the Lambs\\"). <br />The inclusion of Lindsay's father into the complex plot is good, and again gives weight to the story and Lindsay's character. It makes it more personal and interesting to read. <br />Overall, this is a very good thriller. Everything has been improved upon since his latest efforts. the plot is exciting, the book is a pageturner, full of emotion (which Patterson is undeniably very good at evoking). This new series is definitely going to shine. I cannot wait for the 3rd installment...<br />I am not naive, i realise that this book was co-authored with someone else. I expect that that is the reason why it is such an improvement. I suspect that this book is good not because of James Patterson, but because of Andrew gross. I think people should be aware of the fact that the improvement is likely to be due to the efforts of Mr Gross, and, as such, we should thank heaven for him. Well done Mr Gross :)	2002-03-31
1598923:US	40684262	RIX8S19WB6XU7	0671023616	602429584	Postmortem (Kay Scarpetta Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cunning, seductive, excellently written	I find Patricia Cornwell's writing style strangely seductive. Try as i might, i am unable to dislike any of her books, even Isle of Dogs. The way she writes, to me, is just magic. I can't put a finger on it, but i am just hooked by her every word.<br />And this was the book which kicked it all off. Kicked off my love affair with the writing's of Patricia Cornwell, the world's most stunning author. She is my favourite author, and i always rush to buy her latest offering, whatever the reviews. Her writing simply captivates me. And i don't know why...<br />Postmortem is a great novel, and the one which most relies of forensics for the solving of the case. It introduces Kay Scarpetta, the morally unshiftable, strong-willed, compelling, alter-ego of the author, and possibly the strongest voice in detective fiction today. Still, after twelve years.<br />It also introduces the full supporting cast, almost all of whom will remain with Scarpetta until this very day. Marino, Lucy, and Benton Wesley. Their characters are all different, they compliment each other, and their differences provide the series with many a soap-type drama.<br />The plot here is simple, a serial killer is brutally slaying women in their own homes. Cue Scarpetta, newly instated Chief Medical Examiner of Virginia, to give her unique insight into the case, and to provide the police with detailed forensic evidence. The investigation which follows is a compelling one. Cornwell packs in twists, shock deaths, amazingly cunning and clever forensic revelations, and an exciting climax, into a great book. A book which began the dual careers of the most famous expert witness in all fiction, and one of the world's best, and bestselling, writers. This is a book which is truly worthy of the future which grew from it.	2002-03-31
1599078:US	40684262	R2NND4I9MJ1PUV	0446607657	408200678	When the Wind Blows	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An unusual thriller	This is an unusual, yet still enjoyable, thriller. Once again Patterson breaks away from his Cross series to try his hand at something different (see Black Market, the Midnight Club, Hide And Seek, Cradle and All, the Beach House, Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas). Almost all of these excursions, with the exception of Black Market, have been excellent. This is is not of such high quality, but it is nonetheless still a good read. <br />The plot is good. However, the overall premise of conspiracy and government testing is one which has been used frequently in the genre, and as such Patterson brings nothing new to it. However, as a thriller of government conspiracy this is exciting, and rather compelling. It does leave something to be desired in the character development department, though. Both the lead characters are interesting and likeable, and work well in contrast with one another, but at times they seem a little shallow. Of course, the obligatory spark of romance is there, (something which is present in almost all Patterson books) and it does breathe a certain amount of life into the characters. <br />This, in true Patterson fashion, remains a pageturner. His short chapter and simple writing style (sometimes far too simple) make for easy and quick reading. But sometimes, that quick writing style detracts from the story. It is not in evidence as much in this novel as it is with Violets are Blue or Pop Goes the Weasle, but it is still there. <br />Overall, this is a good thriller, with a very unusual plot, but at times the plot does seem a bit too much within the realms of childhood fantasy. Certainly exciting, certainly intriguing, certainly a Patterson pageturner.	2002-03-31
1601197:US	40684262	R2T72K8NRB9N3T	0425158616	705524126	Cause of Death (Kay Scarpetta, No. 7)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Cornwell is mind-blowing	This is my second-time around for \\"Cause of Death\\"...i like her books THAT much. This time i'm working through them in order, which is one thing i made the mistake of not doing when i first came across her. <br />Anyway...on first reading, this one wasn't really my favourite, but when i read it a second time, i absolutely loved it. The plot is really exciting, intriguing, fast-paced...in fact, everything we have come to expect from Ms Cornwell. <br />Scarpetta is back, and a it more jaded than usual. Lucy too is back, and its good to see her working independent from her aunt, proving she is equally capable. (What Cornwell does to the character in later books is a shame).<br />The first half of the book is a tad better than the second, but the electrifying conclusions really makes up for that. Otherwise, this book is extremely well written (whatever the minor faults of some of her books, they always are) extremely fast-paced, and with a dark and muddy plot which stinks of corruption and intrigue. <br />The first couple of paragraphs are possibly the best first couple of paragraphs which Ms Cornwell has ever penned. The book begins right at the deep end (literally) with invetigative reporter Ted Eddings found dead whilst diving under the murky surface of the ELizabeth River. The way COrnwell describes this scene is extremely evocative and more than a little scary. The way Scarpetta has to don diving equipment and take a dive into the muddy depths of the water to find the body is chilling...<br />The climax is great, the plot is exciting and a good puzzle, the characters are good, if a little unrealistic. But nonetheless, Cornwell is still a (possibly THE) maestro popular fiction.	2002-03-29
1602923:US	40684262	R1I6VJNMCZ9KYQ	0425180638	109258524	The Last Precinct: Scarpetta (Book 11)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Oh what a book!	I have read many interviews with Patricia Cornwell, and i get the sense that she is a really likeable, generous, kindhearted person. I like her books, and her, a great deal. <br />This book, whilst perhaps not being the best in terms of \\"intrigue\\" is nonetheless an extremely good entry in the series. It is a very strong and powerful book, which is full of emotion and shimmers with despair, injustice, unfairness, and in the middle of it all is Scarpetta, with Marino and Lucy, who at times seem to be the only people trying to right the wrongs of the world. (A downside to this comes when you get the sense that Scarpetta somehow feels very \\"superior\\" to everyone else.) The sense of loneliness Cornwell portrays is very compelling, and at times very moving. You feel Scarpetta's despair and depression at the terrible things going on in her world. <br />Many people criticise the latest Scarpetta books for being too depressing and dark. But, i ask you, what else do you expect? The main character is a medical examiner who deals in death every single day...Are you expecting picnics by a river, or what? Death is depressing. So, by default, these novels shoudl also be quite depressing. <br />It is also very moving the way that, over the course of the series, we have seen Scarpetta become gradually more and more immersed in her job, more obsessed by it and with justice, and yet with almost every book it brings her a further step down into the pit of depression.  <br />This latest book has a much slower pace than most of her previous novels, which is good. It is good for Scarpetta's life to slow down sometimes, so she has time to get to grips with things. Also, the reader has too. <br />i cannot praise this series highly enough. It has so many levels, so many things which are praiseworthy. It goes from strength to strength, and all the books are different. The characters are great, if sometimes a tad pretentious. But hey, i can live with that, as long as Cornwell continues to write such good books. Her mastery of the English language is unquestionable. She rarely uses much descriptive prose, instead choosing to make her writing to the point and engaging, but when she does, it really gives the writing a shimmering edge. <br />Brilliant, Patricia. Thank you. Ignore the doubters. I cannot wait for Scarpetta 12 (supposed to be the next part in this ongoing \\"Chandonne\\" saga.)	2002-03-27
1604049:US	40684262	R1Y51JQ9GC5IG4	0553564528	357663143	Guilty as Sin: A Novel (Deer Lake)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An excellent legal thriller	This is, esssentially, a legal thriller, but Hoag, the wonderful author that she is, mixes lots of other elements in with it, giving it many extra dimensions, and making it stand as a truly stunning work. <br />Hoag's writing is excellent. Her descriptions are wonderful. and her character developement is the best in the business. Seriously. <br />I read Night Sins (the prequel to this) and Guilty As Sin back to back, and it was 1000+ pages of unadulterated pleasure. I was blown away first by the dark and sinister tale presented to us in &quot;Night SIns&quot; and again with the tense, thrilling, legal suspense novel which she gives us in &quot;Guilty As Sin&quot;. <br />Hoag can write anything. All her books are very different. With this book she proves that she is even better than John Grisham when it comes to coutrroom thrillers. I was hooked, and couldn't put the book down. <br />Hoag is a simply brilliant writer, possibly my favourite, next to Cornwell. I love the way she subtly mixes the genres of romance and dark thriller. The relationships between her characters are great, and they are so well drawn it is as if you are really watching real people in a real town. <br />The plot here is a cracker. It follows on from the brilliant &quot;NIght Sins&quot;, but is excellent in the fact that it manages to be very different from the first book. I liked the introduction of a new lead character &quot;Ellen North&quot; whilst still including Megan and Mitch. All the characters are intriguing and interesting, and the final twist at the end really is quite stunning. Hoag is wonderful. She never puts a foot wrong.	2002-03-27
1607652:US	40684262	RPF8PHVB6G0FC	0451167317	877287899	The Dark Half	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A darn good book	I've read several Stephen King books, but by no means all, but out of those several i have read, this one is definitely one of the absolute best (and all of them are very good) but this was simply blew me away. i can't reaally find the words to describe how good it is...(don't you find that? whenever you really love a book, you really just cannot think of the words to express that love.)<br />Thad Beaumont has written four novels under the name \\"George Stark\\" but now he wants a change. so he \\"kills\\" Stark, and begins to write under his own name. BUt is Stark really dead? Of course not! this is a Stephen King book! the pseudonym miraculously comes to life, and goes on a killing spree, determined to gain revenge on all those who had a hand in his \\"death\\". His ultimate goal, however, is to force Thad into writing another novel under the name George Stark, so as to bring him back to life...<br />It's a stunning book. You should probably read this book and \\"Misery\\" back to back, as the two kind of compliment each other. \\"misery\\" is a novel about the fan's obsession with writing and the writer, and \\"The Dark Half\\" is about the writers obsession with writing and ultaimtely, their own inner self. <br />This is not exactly a scary book, but it is definitely Kings most tense and thrilling. The plot is taut and exciting, and it's full of some really likeable characters. <br />George Stark is evil personified...the scenes in which he viciously slays the people who had a hand in his \\"death\\" are so gorily described, they may well have your stomach churning. <br />But of course, it wouldn't be a Stephen king novel without a little something supernatural, and King provides that in the form of the sparrows. I shan't elaborate any further on that point, apart from just to say if you thought ravens were supposed to be jarring, you aint seen nothing yet. <br />This book is excellent all the way thorugh. Some of Kings books tend to be a little slow to start (which is understandable, because every plot needs decent groundwork) but this one just leaps straight in after about 20 pages, and the relentless pace never lets up. i raced through this book. couldn't put it down.<br />The book is exciting, tense, well written, chilling, creepy, and Kings best work, i expect. I severely doubt that i will read anything better by Him, as this book has surpassed all my expectations...	2002-03-24
1609369:US	40684262	R1MWZB5RNJ26DJ	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning suspense thriller	It was a while ago that i read this book, and it was my first of Deavers. Since then i have bought every single book he has ever written, and have read all but a few of them. <br />This is simple an outstanding book. it is the best hostage thriller i have ever read, and that i expect i ever will. <br />Deaver mounts the tension beautifully...every now and then it gets so high that you literally feel it as he lets a little of the tension out...it's a wonderful display of suspense writing. <br />Deavers characters are vivid, and his characterisation is wonderfully subtle. they are well rounded and very human. Arthur Potter is a compelling hero, and his &quot;invisble&quot; relationship with Melanie is brilliantly done. the way they feel connected to each other during the hostage negotiation even though they have never met is wonderful. I felt very moved. <br />As well as being a very suspenseful book, this is also an extremely emotional one. there are times when you really feel very sorry for the characters, and an insipid hate for their characters. I felt particularly sorry for poor Donna Hawstrawn. I really wanted this book to keep going, just so that i could see if she would be okay...there are also a couple of moments in the book when you might be moved to tears. there are some devastating events, which really tug at you. <br />Deavers portrayal of the Deaf is completely unpatronising. He is extremely good at writing about people with what might be termed &quot;handicaps&quot;, and in this case i think he was at hsi most sucessful. He wrote about it in such a way that you did feel slight sympathy, but moreover you felt proud of these people. Also, i felt a strange but strong urge to actually really try and get a feel for what it might be like to be Deaf...<br />This is a brilliant book, with a good twist at the end. good characters, emotional writing, stunning suspense, and an excellent hostage thriller. Deaver is simply the best.	2002-03-22
1609946:US	40684262	R21BZ6TWA7XWAP	055358295X	876902997	Death of a Blue Movie Star (Rune)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Hooked by Rune	This is the second Rune novel. I was quite impressed with the first one, but this second one literally blew me away!<br />Rune is an absolutely great character. She is likeable, amusing, and great company. Deaver's writing is puncy, to the point, and exciting. I found myself turning the pages rapidly. <br />the plot is really good, as always with a Deaver novel. there is also some emotion packed in with it. There is excitement, tension, intrigue...all the things you need to make a good thriller. these Rune books are really easy, they're light, too, but not over simple. I find them even more pageturners than his normal stuff. i don't know why...i just really cant wait to find out whats going to happen and why. the characters are compelling and the plot great. <br />i really cannot describe what i like so much about this series, but i absolutely love it! It is a breath of fresh air, and i am really sad that there is only one book left. i really hope Deaver writes another Rune book sometimes, because this really is a great series. <br />With \\"Death os A Blue Movie Star\\" he creates his usual complex plot, and packs it with stuff. it's fast paced, and fairly races along to what is an absolutely stunning climax, in true Deaver style. As always, there are several twists throughout the book, and its great fun trying to guess what they'll be...and i was not right once!<br />Deaver is the best thriller/suspense writer out there. I love his books to pieces.	2002-03-22
1609981:US	40684262	R1WP884U3QAJ3W	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning suspense thriller	It was a while ago that i read this book, and it was my first of Deavers. Since then i have bought every single book he has ever written, and have read all but a few of them. <br />This is simple an outstanding book. it is the best hostage thriller i have ever read, and that i expect i ever will. <br />Deaver mounts the tension beautifully...every now and then it gets so high that you literally feel it as he lets a little of the tension out...it's a wonderful display of suspense writing. <br />Deavers characters are vivid, and his characterisation is wonderfully subtle. they are well rounded and very human. Arthur Potter is a compelling hero, and his &quot;invisble&quot; relationship with Melanie is brilliantly done. the way they feel connected to each other during the hostage negotiation even though they have never met is wonderful. I felt very moved. <br />As well as being a very suspenseful book, this is also an extremely emotional one. there are times when you really feel very sorry for the characters, and an insipid hate for their characters. I felt particularly sorry for poor Donna Hawstrawn. I really wanted this book to keep going, just so that i could see if she would be okay...there are also a couple of moments in the book when you might be moved to tears. there are some devastating events, which really tug at you. <br />Deavers portrayal of the Deaf is completely unpatronising. He is extremely good at writing about people with what might be termed &quot;handicaps&quot;, and in this case i think he was at hsi most sucessful. He wrote about it in such a way that you did feel slight sympathy, but moreover you felt proud of these people. Also, i felt a strange but strong urge to actually really try and get a feel for what it might be like to be Deaf...<br />This is a brilliant book, with a good twist at the end. good characters, emotional writing, stunning suspense, and an excellent hostage thriller. Deaver is simply the best.	2002-03-22
1610207:US	40684262	RHFUIZIYKQAYL	0451188489	745541196	A Maiden's Grave	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Stunning suspense thriller	It was a while ago that i read this book, and it was my first of Deavers. Since then i have bought every single book he has ever written, and have read all but a few of them. <br />This is simple an outstanding book. it is the best hostage thriller i have ever read, and that i expect i ever will. <br />Deaver mounts the tension beautifully...every now and then it gets so high that you literally feel it as he lets a little of the tension out...it's a wonderful display of suspense writing. <br />Deavers characters are vivid, and his characterisation is wonderfully subtle. they are well rounded and very human. Arthur Potter is a compelling hero, and his &quot;invisble&quot; relationship with Melanie is brilliantly done. the way they feel connected to each other during the hostage negotiation even though they have never met is wonderful. I felt very moved. <br />As well as being a very suspenseful book, this is also an extremely emotional one. there are times when you really feel very sorry for the characters, and an insipid hate for their characters. I felt particularly sorry for poor Donna Hawstrawn. I really wanted this book to keep going, just so that i could see if she would be okay...there are also a couple of moments in the book when you might be moved to tears. there are some devastating events, which really tug at you. <br />Deavers portrayal of the Deaf is completely unpatronising. He is extremely good at writing about people with what might be termed &quot;handicaps&quot;, and in this case i think he was at hsi most sucessful. He wrote about it in such a way that you did feel slight sympathy, but moreover you felt proud of these people. Also, i felt a strange but strong urge to actually really try and get a feel for what it might be like to be Deaf...<br />This is a brilliant book, with a good twist at the end. good characters, emotional writing, stunning suspense, and an excellent hostage thriller. Deaver is simply the best.	2002-03-22
1611740:US	40684262	R3ND3FO3L9VRLZ	0451203054	281774869	Praying for Sleep	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great suspense novel, with his best twist yet	This book was one of Deavers first \\"real\\" thrillers. At least, one of the first for which he is best known. <br />This book has everything...there is a great title, just for a start. then there are some great characters, who are very interesting. They are all on the hunt for Michael Hrubek, who has escaped from his psychiatric hospital and is now on his way to gain vengeance on Liz Atchesion, the teacher who testified at his murder trial...<br />this book is typical Deaver. A book set over a short period of time, with twists and turns all the way. Deaver reveals the plot slowly skein by skein, and it unfolds before us like a tapestry. This is one of his most complex plots yet, and almost certainly his most character driven ever. it focuses much more on the relationships between all the characters, and how they act, than many of his others. <br />there is a great plot, it's devious, inventive, exciting, and intriguing. typical Deaver, basically. you never, never, know where the book is going. there are some great revelations along the way, too. the dark and stormy night is a perfect setting for the book, and gives a great feel of calustrohpobia and isolatedness. <br />However, the one thing i didn't like quite so much about this book was that, although it is an excellent thriller, it is a bit too long. Not a lot, but perhaps if it had been 50 pages shorter, and the pace a bit quicker, it would have been perfect, and definitely Deaver's best ever book. <br />Why this book is such a muct-read is the absolutely fantastic twist at the end. It is the best twist Deaver has ever devised. it shies away from the usual twists to do with identity which Deaver usually uses (i.e. people not really being who you tihnk they are) but is much more than that. it is a superb twist, and it really blew my socks off. (even if it is delivered a bit weakly.) A stunning twist. I feel proud to say that i have read it, and hope that a little bit of his magic rubs off on me.	2002-03-21
1613225:US	40684262	R3FZB815RRSF4O	038531941X	821563446	The Poison Tree	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An absolutely cracking debut	...<br />This is a stunning book, and is probably the best debut novel i have read in many a moon. <br />Tony Strong's actual writing ability is nothing short of excellent. his wonderful style kept me turning those pages as event followed event. The characters are compelling...not always because they are likeable, but because you just can't help but be fascinated by what's going to happen to them...<br />the plot is great. It is tight, exciting, and intriguing. all through the book the motives arent clear, the reasons, and then, right at the end he hits you with the solution in a really brilliant climax. <br />It's erotic...ok. deeply so, in parts. and i guess that if you dont like that kind of thing, then you probably shouldn't read it. but i found the analysis of all the letters really very interesting. the psyxhology of the novel is spot on, and all the way through Strong gives us little snippets of the analysis of the traditional deteective story, told by the heroine as she lectures on the subkect at university. It's all very interesting. he's packed lots of stuff into this book, and it makes for a really interesting, really chilling read. <br />Right from the beginning i was drawn into the book by the eccentric characters and the extremely realistic portrayal of life in a university. Terry Williams is an interesting character, and her struggles with trying to get her life back on track after a divorce, and the confusion brought about by being unsure of her sexuality, makes for some more interesting reading. <br />This is a very disturbing book, but it is extrememly (EXTREMELY) well written, with a cracker of a plot and an astoundingly assured debut novel.	2002-03-19
1613297:US	40684262	R1WTVN0IHC14KD	0312979479	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	5	2	3	N	N	You'll never guess it	Christie has some many books which could be termed \\"her best\\" that the title becomes somewhat cliche. Almost all Christie's book could be considered her ebst, from my personal favourite \\"Death Comes As The End\\", to the one i liked least \\"Passenger to Frankfurt\\" which i am sure many other people loved.<br />All of her books are ingenious, intriguing, and feature a mind-bending puzzle or a fast-paced adventure.<br />This is no exception. this is porobably one of her most famous, and it's easy to see why. it's completely original and the solution is so unexpected...<br />The plot runs at such high speed...there's practically a death per chapter...and each person who pops their clogs is murdered in tune with the rhyme \\"Ten Little Indians\\". there is a subtle build up of suspense and terror until the final two people remain on the small island, isolated from the world, convinced the other is the killer. paranoia runs rife among the final few victims, and when at last the final ones gets it, we think it's all been sorted out. but oh no.<br />In the final chapter christie pulls of a brilliant twist, and one that i totally did not see coming. she really pulls the wool over the readers eyes.<br />a very enjoyable book. highly reccomended	2002-03-19
1613705:US	40684262	R4A9323BJR1OG	0743412273	639916239	Pet Sematary	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another great Stephen King book.....	Stephen King has said that this is his scariest book...and in some ways he is right. This is more a book about horror affecting the personal lives of the characters, the family, etc, and you can see why issues like that would be frightening to some people. Especially considering the place Mr King was in when he wrote this book, as a father himself. <br />It would be very unsettling for anyone who had ever been a parent, or indeed, anyone who can remmber being a child very vividly. The plot is quite simple, but effectively told and very chilling. there are some really likeable characters, and their inclusion makes this story even more human, and therefore as it feels more human, an even more frightening and unsettling book. <br />there are some great twists and turns in this book...i think particularly of one time when for about 30 pages we were breathing a huge (it was, literally a huge) sigh of relief, but then Mr King comes along again and shatters that relief into a million pieces, and because of it the shock and sadness and the events which really have happened are more profound and moving. <br />I have read about six of his books now, and none of them have been bad. The only thing i can ever fault about his writing is his incessant use of italics, and the way he loves to split paragraphs randomly with thoughts, trying to immitate the tracks of the human mind processes. it just annoys me. but hey, i can live with it.	2002-03-19
1617269:US	40684262	RDAOW6ES4Z4TM	0425178773	351280365	Day of Reckoning (Sean Dillon)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Alright, so it's cliche....SO WHAT? It's exciting and fun!	I really can't fault this book, and feel that other only can because they're silly nitpicking twits. <br />What do i look for in a book...well,  ...I personally think this is one of Higgins's best books in years. Lately, he has produced a real string of absolutely stunning thrillers. Right from Drink with the Devil, and up to Midnight Runner which was published in the UK in feb, and is due to be published in the US in April. All of his most recent books have been excellent.  They are fast paced, exciting, with likeable characters, interesting and intelligent plots, and good settings which span the globe. <br />This is no different. A recurring theme of his latest three books (Day of Reckoning, Edge of Danger, and now Midnight Runner) is revenge. This time the revenge is sought by Blake Johnson against the killers of his ex-wife, a mafia don whom she had been doing a jounrnalistic expose on. Johnson sets out to bring the don (Jack Fox) down, with the help of Sean Dillion and co. What follows is a truly exciting adventure which speeds along at high pace. The speed at which it switches from place to place is stunning, and the events unfold before you like a rollercoaster ride. <br />Higgins's writing is pitch-perfect. Some writers, in their quest to write well, overwrite their stories tremendously. And others, knowing the dangers of over-writing, try desperately to avoid doing so but instead they drastically oversimplify their work so it readsa like a ten year old's. Jack Higgins gets it just right. Not overwritten, but not oversimplfied either. just perfect. <br />A criticism of this book is his lack of characterisation of some of the major characters. Personally, i don't notice it, as i have come across them al before, and know them very well. That is a problem of series writing. You develop your characters in the early books, and as the series moves on there is very little developement left which you can do, and they run the risk of appearing 2d. However, this didn't spoil the book at all. This is an extremely high-class adventure story from a real master of modern fiction, powered by high emotion.	2002-03-16
1619216:US	40684262	R2Q7U77TY9PIZL	0006510663	207236181	The Only Game	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Hill is really good	I find myself surprised that i like this book. I don't often like books where the author strays away from their normal characters into something completely different...but this book is really good. i would say it is equally as good as many of the dalziel and pascoe books. <br />Reginald Hill really does have a great way of building up characters until they just jump off the page at you. he also is able to create really engaging and intriguing plots, which are always original. this is one qualifies yet again. it's a really well-paced book, and you get the impression that Hill is in complete control as he leads you by the nose to an excellent conclusion. and there are one or two really great twists right near the end that i just did not see coming.	2002-03-15
1620936:US	40684262	R1FNTE2QEDPCN2	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Definitely very average.	This is one of Patterson's worst efforts, second only to Violets Are Blue. <br />The plot is underdeveloped. The killer is far too OTT and melodramatic to really have any impact of instill any fright at all. All the killing he does is just gratuitous, from Patterson. His motives are not really explained very well. He is too \\"larger than life\\" to be in the least bit scary or realistic. There are far too many killings, and it seems like Patterson just puts them in to keep the plot moving. <br />However, there were some aspects which redeemed it. The legal side, the courtroom stuff was full of suspense, and the relationship between Cross and Patsy Hampton, the way it changed and grew, was really good. Also, the original plot premise was a very good one. (Patterson's usually always, but lately he has sometime failed to bring them to realisation.). However, the writing is becoming a bit too oversimple. <br />Patterson really listenend to his fans too much when they asked him to write quicker. <br />...	2002-03-13
1621122:US	40684262	R4RYZ8BOQLTGZ	0553284363	655902043	Payment in Blood (Inspector Lynley Mystery, Book 2)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Really good	Even though George paints a somewhat old-fashioned portrait of English life, she is still able to write very very good mysteries. <br />Her detecive thrillers are clever, intuitive, have nice twists, good, well evoked settings, and are very well written, if somewhat OVER written. <br />the mystery here is first class as ever. she writes with the style of agatha christie, and comes up with solutions that the dead queen would be proud of. It is only a shame that Lynley is not quite as interesting as Poirot. However, the relationships the main characters 5 characters really are VERY interesting. they add weight, credibility, and realism to the story. they add a more personal and intimate side, and prove an ongoing drama to mix with that of the different crimes which come up in each book. <br />She is very good at drawing her character, and very good at coming up with agatha christie style plots. her psychology is accurate, and her writing very descriptive. <br />Definitely worth a read. This second book was very very good. So far, i dont think she written a bad one, and i've read nearly all of them. A good build up A Great Deliverance, and got the series off to a really smashing start.	2002-03-13
1621849:US	40684262	R33LY8LE4G74YA	0425185168	406360292	Forty Words for Sorrow	Books	5	1	2	N	N	4.5 stars for a chilling and chilly book	The atmosphere of the cold harashness of the canadian landscape is brilliantly evoked by Giles Blunt. When reading it you really juat want to shiver...he mirrors the setting really well in his cold and calculating plot. <br />The plot here is certainly very original, which i tend to like in a serial killer novel. However, the writing did seem to lack assurance...it felt nervous and even though it wasn't. a bit underdeveloped. Some of it niggled me, and didn't really sit right. This book won the English CWA Silver Dagger award for crime fiction, and had excellent reviews. So i was expecting and absolutely sensational read. It didn't quite live up to expectation. it is still a really really good thriller, though. Just perhaps not quite as stupendous as i'd expected. The blurb didn't help. The english versions is somewhat misleading...<br />anyway, with that said, this is still a very good book, especially for a first novel (i'm discounting \\"Cold Eye\\" his \\"real\\" first book.) The plot IS orignal, and the landscape is evoked well in the atmosphere and overall coldness of the plot. <br />John Cardinal is a really likeable character, and i am looking very much forward to reading about him once more. he is slightly flawed, but for all the right reasons. You really feel for him. He's compelling and interesting. His fierce loyalty to his wife is also a wonder to behold. <br />There are some other great characters too, but Cardinal is the one who really stands out. one of the best and most well developed leads to a book i've read in a long while. <br />The plot is good, original, but the motives of the villains weren't really explained fully enough...just glossed over. However, there were some really great twists, and a stunning climax. <br />This is an extremely worthy book, and any fan of this genre should really like it. It reminded somewhat of Mo Hayder's (an excellent English thriller writer) debut \\"Birdman\\". You try to be too original and it just doesn't read as well itmight. The two have real similarities here. However, this book is a bit less disturbing than Hayders. Blunt really is very similar in style to Hayder, and he has great potential. with her second book Mo Hayder poroved to me that she was the best serial killer thriller writer we have in Britain. I believe that Giles Blunt may well prove that he is the best from Canada. <br />Well worth a read.	2002-03-13
1621930:US	40684262	R2MMQNCOT8A2S8	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	2	2	N	N	strikes home yet again	Tami Hoag really does amaze me. Whatever she turns her hand to, she suceeds, and proves she can do better even than the people who have been doing it for years. With Her early romances, Lucky's Lady, Magic, and Sarah's Sin, she proved she could write stuning, gripping, realistic, heart tugging romance stories. THen, with Still Waters she proved she could write excellent detective type novels, with great plots, great characters, and great unexpected solutions. With Dark Paradise she proved she could write a simple story in a compelling way, with deadly accurate psychology, creating suspense along with a thriller and great character. With Cry Wolf she proved she could mix the genres of romance and thriller better than anyone else, and came up with one of the best books ever. With Night Sins she proved she could write chilling, disturbing, accurate, realistic, and frightening psychological thrillers. With Guilty As Sin she proved she could write a legal thriller much better than John Grisham was ever able to. It was a superb book, full of tenseion, great characters. With A Thin Dark Line she returned again to something more like Still Waters crossed with Dark Paradise. A seemingly simple serial killer novel, with what was reminiscent of a detective story type solution. With Ashes to Ashes she proved she could come up with stunning serial killer novels, better than Cornwell, better than Thomas Harris. And with Dust to Dust she proves conclusively she can write a really compelling police procedural better than i have ever read by the so called \\"pros\\". Can she fail in ANYTHING?<br />Her writing is stunning. Really lyrical, really descriptive. A joy to read. her characters are really comelling, really well-rounded and fully develoeped. Their relationships and personalities are interesting and realistic. There were times in this book when i was moved to tears, especially at the end. You really really feel so so sorry for Kovac, as he is a very good person at heart, and forAmanda Savard who was a troubled person trying her best to do the right thing, and not really knowing what it was. their relationship is possibly the best Hoag has written of. <br />THis is a very well written police procedural thriller, which i sometimes find a boring. however, this one, no way. It's a very hard-boiled book, but you feel that it was simmered first. it is more subtle, and more well constructed. It's a very macho book, whcih surprises me for Hoag being a female, and only serves to increse my belief that she can do anything she turns her hand to. The initial mystery is one which is not all that original (apparent suicides which later turn out to be murder are rife in the world of fiction) however, this one soon becomes something very different, and so much more. Hoag's characters are great, comoelling, especially Tinks Liska. the way she acts very masculine, a after effect of her trying to fit into the almost all male world of police officers is very realistic, and very interesting. Tinks Links is one of her best lead female characters ever. <br />the end solution is really clever, really clever, and much more complicated that the plot woudl first suggest. Hoag's books are wonderful, and this one is no exception.	2002-03-13
1626538:US	40684262	RV4CVJFQNEW9X	0446606189	265763987	Cat & Mouse (Alex Cross)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I loved it, even though he's going downhill	This is robably my favourite Alex Cross novel. Although i cannot sya why. For this book is undoubtedly worse than the rest. there is little to no character development, the writing is far too oversimplified, the serial killer aspect seem a bit too much &quot;quantity over quality&quot;, and Alex Cross is finally getting annoying. Besides all that though, this is my favourite Cross novel. I loved the parrallel way it runs, with the Gary Soneji plotline running alongside the Mr Smith killings. It's a really good two in one thriller. SOneji is back and bigger, more terrifying than ever. And Mr Smith brings a whole new meaning to the word &quot;chilling&quot;. He is probably Patterson's best villain. There is a great thing Patterson does (hence turning the ending into a rather Agatha Chrisite-style denouement) in which for a while Cross is in hospital, and another investigator takes over the naarration of the story for a while. It's refreshing, and adds extra power to the story and final twist. <br />It's good that Patterson decides the rid the book of Soneji after about halfway, because the Mr SMith side of it gets so complicated and complex, that the book, if it ran on two lines for the whole way, would be many many more pages long, and may have been criticised for the fact that he didn't decide to split it into two books. <br />this is a real pageturner, with Patterson's trademark shortchapters which really keep you reading late into the night. (or early into the morning, to be more correct.). However, watch out Mr Patterson, much of what you've written from here on in is sliding to the &quot;below average&quot; mark.	2002-03-09
1628515:US	40684262	R1FMYDKTNFBC74	0440218659	467197478	The Crocodile Bird	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Among her very best.	This is really among one of her very best. the claustrophobic nature of the story is brought across really well in the atmosphere, tone, and overall description. <br />Ruth rendell's psychologically damaged characters are almost always really hard to read about, because they seem so normal right on the surface that they remind you of all the people you know in every day life, and you are not comfortable in your realisation that any of them coudl well be like the characters which populate her books. <br />The plot here is a simple one, but it is told stunningly well. Rendell is the Dickens of modern times. (That is no exaggeration) the way the story is told by Lisa, the way it slowly unfolds on a parrallel with lisa's new life is truly masterful. Rendell adds many nice little twists, and really gets the psychology dead one. The ending, unlike some of her books, is reassuring in that it seems to shimmer with a real hope and the knowledge that sometimes, despite the wrongs people have done, and had done to them, things can turn out right in the end...	2002-03-07
1628601:US	40684262	R15T2GZQXTIE5	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A tense, thrilling, chilling, and overall very original book	Tami Hoag is one of my favourite authors. And this is my second favourite of hers, after Cry Wolf. Tami Hoag excells in creating details, well developed characters who are interesting, realistic, and have really compelling relationships with one another, so much so that you could go on reading about them almost for ever. Here, she comes up trumps yet again. <br />Kate is another great character, and this time she is less of the typical Hoag heroine, and Quinn is less the typical Hoag hero, whcih i found really refreshing. I sometimes get tired of her similar all her lead two characters are, but with this vbook she really breaks away from that mould. <br />The relationship between Kate and Quin develops very well, and very nicely. And the relationship between Angie and Kate is truly compelling, and a joy to read about. at times your heart breaks for the poor girl. She's a great character, and you invest yourself with many many hopes for her...hopes you won't know whether are fulfilled or not. because, unfortunately, this book has to end somewhere. <br />This is a really gripping novel. It is rare to find a completely original serial killer novel. But this is definitely one. Hoag makes it original by adding twist after twist on top of an unsual method of murder, and her great and realistic, all-too-human characters. <br />The ending comes as a real surprise, too. <br />Bottom line, this is a really original serial killer novel, with some great characters, a chilling villain, and a great plot.	2002-03-07
1628686:US	40684262	R1MPRG7H7LE8HH	0373263716	997654282	Singing The Sadness (Worldwide Library Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not as good as D&amp;P, but still enjoyable.	Joe Sixsmith novels aren't quite as good as his Dalziel and Pascoe ones, but they are still very enjoyable. <br />There are much more overtly humorous than his other series, and at times that is refreshing. they are nice light reads. They don't take themselves very seriously. sometimes, this is great, but sometimes it doesn't work so well... <br />the plots are nicely complex and Joe is a really likeable character. I would reccomend them, but peppered with Dazliel And Pascoe.	2002-03-07
1629613:US	40684262	R290XWXEZOXRN9	0446604801	440825646	Jack & Jill (Alex Cross)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wow	Onew of the things which Patterson stuned me with in his early books was his originality. And that is more than evident here, is perhaps his most orignal book yet.<br />This is equally chillign and thrilling as his previous two, and equally a pageturner. The two villains picking off the rich and famous are, once more, spine tingling. Patterson really does create excellent villains.<br />His character development here is perhaps not so good, although he does create a strong subsidiary character in the president.<br />I love novels which break the rules of fiction. (you know, the rules which state that bombs never manage go off killing millions of people, presidents are always just saved from assasination, the villains are always caught, the culripts always identified, etc) Which smash them completely, showing utter disregard for them and the invisible guidlines which created them. this is such a novel. the ending is a masterpiece. I loved it because it broke through the conventions of the serial killer novels and thriller, absolutely smashing the rules to pieces.<br />This is his most complicated book yet, and at times the solutions ia bit awkward to understand, what with the multiple twists he keeps piling on. you never really know where you are during the final 50 pages or so. it's a bit confusing trying to get yoru head round it all. nevertheless, this is another first rate thriller.	2002-03-06
1629762:US	40684262	R2MWIIUUERYHXJ	0785734783	597792275	Along Came A Spider (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Alex Cross)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An excellent thriller	Here, Patterson shows us what really made him famous. His first several books were really stunning thrillers, up to and including Cat And Mouse. but since then all his Alex Cross books have just been re-hashings of the same old plots. <br />This book is great. It's a chilling read, with an excellent and truly original plot. Alex Cross comes across as a great compassionate character, who has much life in him. But Unfortunately, patterson tired him out very quickly. <br />With this book Patterson created one of his most chilling victims. He is chilling because Patterson spends time making him so. Developing his character. With his latest books, Patterson doesn't bother developing his villains )or ANY of his characters, for that matter) and just expects us to believe him when he says they are \\"a chilling and terrifying killer\\" and leaves it at that. With this book, he really shwos us what he can do. He is listening to his fans to much when they say \\"can't you write faster\\". He has chosen to do so, and in doing that has sacrificed good characters and original plots. <br />This book was a great pageturner and a great thriller, with a really brilliant and unexpected twist right at the end. I cannot reccomend this highly enough. How i wish patterson had stayed with this kind of book, rather than started attending the Danielle Steel school of literature. (i.e. it doesn't matter about the quality, the more the write, the more you sell, so let's laugh all the way to the bank) A once great author. I hope he soon refinds his previous great form which he displayed here.	2002-03-06
1630354:US	40684262	R1ZG64P9U3P5FR	0345341473	949439194	Master of the Moor	Books	5	34	37	N	N	One of her best from this period	Ruth Rendell's career in literature has been so longed that it's spanned two generations, and she herself has gone thorugh roughly about three stages, as most people agree. The first stage, from \\"From Doon With Death\\" up until \\"The Speaker of Mandarin\\". Then from \\"The Killing Doll\\" until \\"Going Wrong\\". And now she is in her third, which commenced with \\"Kissing the Gunner's Daughter\\".<br />Master of the Moor comes from her first, and thus far longest, period. During that time she produces some stupendous novels, (and is continuing to do so) and this is one of the best. <br />She really nails the psychology, and has a cast of great, somewhat depressing characters. She shows well the aspects of hope and ability to escape from the tragedies which frequently occur in her books by having Lyn acts as she does. This demonstrated that not all things are written ins tone...and that fate can be escaped. It's not all doom and gloom. <br />Sometimes Rendell's books can be hard to read. I for one find it uncomfortable to  think how finely our lives are balanced between normality and utter catastrophe. The way she uses concepts of \\"what if\\" and how she demonstrated that the tiniest of actions can have massive and far-reaching and tragic repurcussions on our lives is chilling, but very well done. <br />With this book she creates a great plot, with two really stunning twists built in. The darkness and bleakness of the moor is evoked very well, and adds a brooding and forlorn tone to the story. <br />A class read. Rendell remains the best writer we in the UK have ever produced.	2002-03-06
1630489:US	40684262	R3FZK1ZAB7KCYF	0446601241	366731957	Kiss the Girls (Alex Cross)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another great thriller	This is, very possibly, even better than Along Came A Spider, which was really excellent. <br />This one is even more chilling, even more of a pageturner. This time there is double the trouble, with two killing operating on different sides of the United States. But the really disturbing thing is...they appear to be competing with each other...<br />From the opening pages right to the end this book is a great thriller, perhaps one of the best i have ever read. Patterson develops Cross further, and does it very well. He develops his characters nicely, giving the villains especially a chillingly logical edge. That was one thing with which Patterson used to excell. The excellence and brilliance of his villains. This book demonstrates that. Unfortunately, with his latest few books, he seems to have lost it. I hope he regains it soon. <br />I love the double strands of this plot, and the plots running parrallel, and the many twists and turns which Patterson packs in. Cross's relationship with Kate McTiernan is touching, and she is a very good more-than-capable-of-looking-after-herself character. <br />Another first rate-thriller from James Patterson.	2002-03-06
1634100:US	40684262	R33NJPFHXEI1G4	0312952813	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not quite as good as &quot;The Black Echo&quot;	I didn't enjoy this book quite as much as i did &quot;The Black Echo&quot;, which i thought was a stunning debut novel. However, this is still a really good book. Bosch is a great character, but at times he and his superiours attitudes toward him get so frustrating!<br />The plot here is another good one, but to me seemed a little similar to the first. Maybe that's just because of the similarities brought ove rin Bosch's character. That's always a problem when you do a series. <br />Nevertheless, this book has a good plot. It's exciting and tense, and Connelly's writing is gritty and evocative. He has particular talent for the descriptions of place.<br />I would reccomend this to people who read the first one and liked it. Also, it has a really really good climax and a great twist! Definitely a high-class detective novel.	2002-03-03
1634711:US	40684262	R292MAW1OR1XAT	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hilarious	This is yet another funny, literate entry in his discworld series. they are highly reccomended. I laughed out loud several times! Possibly not the best in the series, but certainly worth a read. Rincewind is great!	2002-03-02
1637803:US	40684262	R2DGHDRVCAZ2P4	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very good	this now my fifth or sixth stephen king novel, and while none of them are as good as the first one i read, Bag Of Bones, they have all been of very high quality. This one is no exception. <br />The plot is a little slow to kick in, and at times hard to grasp what is going on, with the time switches in the prologue and then the introduction of the plethora of characters. It takes time to get used to them and to work out who on earth King is talking about. but eventually, when the plot really starts to kick in, it's a beaut. <br />The climax is great, and i loved the epilogue. The middle was pretty great too. It is the most chilling and disturbing of his which i have read yet. for about three days, the atmopshere and despair of this novel really got to depress me. The Shining did this, and i can't put my finger on why. it is perhaps the seeming hoplessness of the events about to be set in motiotn, about the sorrow and heartache, the grand-scale death, the claustrophobic nature of the story. the fact that NO ONE realises what is going on in this small town and if someone doesn't do something soon they'll all be as good as dead...<br />It's a great novel, but i must say  that i hate the way that King often splits his paragraphs with thoughts and italics.	2002-02-28
1639462:US	40684262	R2A3SPYMCK4GG8	0380818191	476581890	The Truth (Discworld)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is his best book	This, IS his best book. I have read all the Discworld books, and am now im the glorious process of re-reading them. (Which is actually even better, because you see things you never saw the first time, including the things you did.)<br />The Truth is a masterpiece of comedy, parody, satire, and just downright good-book-ness. <br />This probably his funniest book yet. I laughed out loud many times. His characters are good, William de Worde especially, Interesting (I think). <br />It's good that Pratchett is injecting new blood into the series. (Although i would hate it if he were to stop writing about all the other characters, the witches especially, as they are my absolute favourite. I love 'em.)<br />The premise for this book is great, and his satire of the modern media is too. Pratchett has a great deal to say, about everything, and he says it very well. His little nuggetts of social observations are always pure gems, and his subtle mockery of almost everything envokes many a laugh. He has the gift of being able to make you laugh at yourself, even if indirectly. You laugh out loud at societies peculairities and people's little nauances. It's all great fun. <br />This is probably his best book yet. Simply stunning. Loved it. He takes a while to get used to, but by god, when you do you're in for a treat!	2002-02-27
1640031:US	40684262	RTYGB31U8RUOA	0553566040	133756281	Missing Joseph (Inspector Lynley Mystery, Book 6)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Continues her winning (if unrealistic) formula	Elizabeth George has some of the best prose in the business. It's elegant and evocative. But it's so long winded! A lot of it's unnecessary, when she could have got the same effect using far fewer words, and much shorter sentences. <br />However, i still really really enjoyed this book. As a long-time devotee of Agatha Chrisite, i have yet to find anyone who comes close to being a modern day model of her. George's novel are of the right style, the right topic, the right mood, and always feature the right sort of mystery. I have no doubt that if Christie was still writing today, these are the sort of books she would be writing. <br />George is able to craft great mysteries, with great well drawn plots, and always manages to create a cast of colourful and realistic characters. That is why i like her books so much, i think. Her intricate and puzzling plots, and how well she draws her characters. You may not like them all, but they are still interesting and colourful, human and well developed. She concentrates not just on the mystery, but on the lives of the characters as the mystery goes on around them. Which is what i admire, because while a mystery effects lives, it does not stop them. <br />Here she goes back to A Great Deliverance country with a \\"whydunnit\\" rather than a \\"whodunnit\\". We know from the start who killed him. There is a little room for doubt, but not serious doubt. The mystery is more focused on why the killer did what they did. <br />With her resolutions and solutions, George is a master. Always has good motives and an unexpected and clever answer to the mystery. <br />She falls down on one point. Always. <br />Her depections of English life. <br />Her books are similar to Christie, and a bit too similar. they not only follow some of the same principles, but they seem set in the same time zones as well, when George's novels are supposed to be set in the present day. The English life she depicts may well have been that of fifty or sixty years ago, butit is very rare you find things like this now. We simply don't live as she writes we do. <br />However, her English way of life may not always be realistic, but if you just forget it's supposed to be set in the modern day and think of it as being a novel set in about the thirties, then you'll be fine.	2002-02-26
1640513:US	40684262	R1P4NXB8NWZFST	0425154092	103272092	From Potter's Field (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Cornwell does it again, and again, and again, and again...	...and with this book, she has done it yet again. <br />The book does not start off too well, with the sherrif Santa bit being a bit confusing for the first couple of pages. I didn't like it. And i thought i might be in for a disappointing Cornwellian offering. <br />My, was i WRONG. <br />This book is yet another stunner. She has definitely veered away from the cunningness and cleverness which inhabited her first three books. But she more than makes up for it with a chilling plot and one of the most cold and clinical serial killers i have eve read of. Essentially, this is a serial killer novel, and as that it not especially original. But it is nonetheless a good one. <br />Marino, Benton, Lucy and of course Kay are back again for another great read. Cornwell's writing is sharp and to the point, and keeps the you turning those pages. I can't really put my finger on a reason why, but from the first time i read a Cornwell book i feel in love with the way she writes. It's simply...wonderful. I can't get enough of it. It's no more literate than the next person's, but for some reason i just relish every sentence she writes. <br />The plot here is sometimes scatty and random (as was Cruel and Unusual) but here, she pulls it off a lot better. I tend not to like books full of random killings, without rhyme or reason (yoo hoo, James Patterson, author of Violets are Blue, i'm talking in particular about you.), but here i really did. The randomness is chilling, and Tenple Gault is a super villain, who curdles the blood. He is just so...hateable. You loathe him absolutely. Especially when you find out how he treats his sister. You just hate him even more. With every part of i wanted him to die, die, die. It is hard to conceieve of anyone so cruel and horrifically terrifying than him. When Scarpetta talks to his parents, it's painful to read, even though it's fiction. It's an extremely moving scene, full of emotion. (As is the entire book.)<br />This book moves along relentlessly to it's absolutely brilliant conclusion. It is the best conclusion she has penned yet, down in the bowels of the New York subway. Dark and frightening, she really brings over the atmosphere. <br />I loved this book, as i have loved almost every single Scarpetta novel so far. <br />The identity of the first victim should come as a real shock.	2002-02-26
1642527:US	40684262	R3LTUMDC0FN9K2	042518093X	910498314	The Mask of Ra	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A great novel. interesting and intriguing.	Beign 15, i'm obviously not as clever as some of you know-it-all Egyptologists. So i am unable to spot all the errors you have. Do you know what? I don't care whether they're there or not. This is not supposed to be a textbook on life in Ancient Egypt, or a history lesson, or a written equivalent of an archaeological dig. It's supposed to be a story. I dont give a damn whether he's got his facts straight, because that's not why i read the books. if it manages to partially inform, that's all well and good, but it's not the purpose of the book. It's fiction. it's a story. So just read it and ignore any errors you may find. because they don't matter. No Paul Doherty does not &quot;have a responsibilty to provide a 100% accurate representation of those times&quot; as i'm sure soome of you may believe. It is not a textbook, so the facts don't have to be right. He only has a responsibility, as a storyteller, to tell a good story. and he has. <br />i enjoyed this book a great great deal. I've read all of his Ancient Egypt novels, and they are among the best things he writes. The atmosphere he evokes is great, and the plots he creates are complex and intriguing. His writing, although it could do with more dialogue, is refreshing and easy to understand. Judge Amerotke is a very interesting and likeable. I greatly enjoy reading about him and his quest for truth. <br />This is a very good book, containing a good mystery, with a great ancient setting. A cast of great characters and a great plot amke this a winner. Some superb action scenes, and some very violent and unpleasant deaths reflect effectively the bloodthirsty nature of the times. However, they are not gratuitous, and all serve a purpose for the plot. If you want an Agatha Christie type mystery with a great setting, choose this book.	2002-02-24
1643518:US	40684262	R218R5W2FKMRV4	0446606383	390445968	The Midnight Club	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not his best, but still good.	This was a good book, but far too oversexed. It's something that Elizabeth George is beginning to do, and it's not impressive. Fine, put some sex in a novel, taht's all well and good, it adds another layer to the book, but we don't need it overdone. We don't need obsession with it. <br />The plot of this is quite good, but even though it's quite a short, it seemed a drag on a bit, i don't know why, as i actually really enjoyed it. The characters of John Steafanovich and Sarah McGuiness were interesting ones, and their romance was quite touching. The villain is one of your typical \\"in the shadows you see him\\" ones, a bit 2-d but still very frightening and bristling with menace. <br />At times there seems to be too much gun-toting, and it seems a bit overcomplicated. but nevertheless he packs in some great twists and turns, culminating in a novel that, while it may not be his best work to date, is worth a read, even if just to watch how once upon a time he actually coudl write. (But it is plain from some of his recent efforts that he now CANT)	2002-02-23
1643724:US	40684262	R3HSMSGB11A2JG	0553295608	835850672	A Suitable Vengeance	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not the best	Admittedly it was interesting to have an excursion back into their pasts. But this is not the best of the bunch so far. Elizabeth george is great at coming up with interesting characters and Agatha Christie-ish plots. But this one lacked something...i can't quite put my finger on it. I did enjoy it very much, but it wasn't really as good as some of her others. At times it was a bit overcomplicated. and it was a bit overlong. We don't even get to hear one line spoken from the dead man, even when his demise comes about 100 pages in. So you can't really feel for him at all, and because george gives the impression that he was an unpleasant man, we don't care as much as we might about his death had we formed some sort of connection with him. Also, the drugs side of it....i know i'm being naive here, but it didn't really seem to fit with the setting. That's a totally stupid thing to say, but it just didn't seem to sit right with me. <br />Nevertheless, this is a good detective novel from a writer who can create great characters, and never fails to deliver some elegant prose. Worth a read, yes, but not quite as good as some of the others.	2002-02-23
1643939:US	40684262	R2I08S2RHXZHNL	0684859726	840593809	Fatal Voyage : A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fighting over the crown	Comparisons are many and varied. Cornwell or Reichs, who is better? In my opinion, you can't really compare them, as they are both great. But this one simply blew my mind. It is better than many of the Kay Scarpetta novels. <br />It opens spectacularly with a plane crash in North Carolina. Tempe Brennan must aid identification of the bodies. There is deep sadness and loss at how many victims there were, and the cause of the crash remains a distinct subplot throughout the novel. However, the main plot is simply stunning...<br />So mysterious, so intriguing. SO, so, so good. Reichs writes well and certainly knows her subject. the realism of the autopsies which are carried out is harrowing and at times can be hard to read, but it's certainly worth it. Occasionally she throws up a gem of a fact to you, which the reader devours in amongst with all the fantastic elements of the plot. <br />Reichs experienced a blip with Deadly Decisions, which i thought was, although quite a good novel, far too overcomplicated. But she is defintely back on track here. Brennan is a very interesting character, and is very well rounded. Yes, i will admit, she is more well rounded than Scarpetta. (That was hard to write, as i am a die hard Cornwell fan that enjoyed even Isle of Dogs.) <br />Conspiracy, loneliness on Brennan's part, yet all the way through a valiant fight for the truth. The truth about the house in the woods is fascinating, and the resolution to this book great, pulse-pounding stuff. This, as well as being a great thriller, was also a superbly clever crime novel. It deserves an award for it's ingenuity. I could not believe me eyes as i read the solution, and i lapped it up eagerly. I was stunned by it's brilliance. This is her best book yet, and i am eagerly looking forward to Grave Secrets to see where she takes Brennan now. <br />Well done Ms Reichs, on creating one of the best plots i've ever read.	2002-02-23
1644114:US	40684262	RT2V1P3EXU45K	0425173895	121809515	The Murder of Roger Ackroyd (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Why o why has it got five stars?	I have always been one of the few who do not think this is Agatha Christie's best book, ro even among them. The plot in itself is pretty average, many of the characters boring. the murder is not at all original. The only thing which is brilliant (and i do mean. it is the best device i've ever read) is the final and stunning twists at the end. it is the best twist i have ever read, and suspect i will EVER read. So so so good. But then, no book deserves five starts for a simple twist. Apart from the end, this book is pretty average.	2002-02-23
1644183:US	40684262	RZFYEF2OTMXVG	0425175472	953841070	Cat among the Pigeons: A Hercule Poirot Novel (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of Christies BEST!	This is definitely one of Christies best novels, right up there with Death Comes as the End, And Then There Were None, and Murder in Mesopotamia. <br />Yeah, ok, she might not be a literary genius, but she definitely has genius of a kind. She practically invented this type of detective novel (i'm not counting Conan Doyle. Why? Because i hate his ludicrous novels), using the brain, whilst at the same time creating great character sketches. <br />She doesn't develop her characters loads, but then, that is NOT what her novels are about. they're about enjoying a great puzzle. And boy, can she construct a great puzzle! The one here is probably the bestm in that is lacks Hercule Poirot for about the first three quarters (some of her best books were those which were without Poirot or Marple). through that she was able to create a good psychological detective story, then bring Poirot in at the end to tie it all up neatly and provide the solution. <br />The climax is great, and probably one of her best. I read this when i was about 12, and was not at all versed in the workins of a detective novel, in that it is the least likely person who did it. I just enjoyed the read, and was gladly surprised when i found out the identity of the culprit. No doubt, those with mroe experience would have been able to spot the killer straight away. However, this remains one of her best novels, and one which i will enjoy reading again and again.	2002-02-23
1644224:US	40684262	R23B6E5FYDFGDE	0671024094	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great suspense novel that twists and turns	I loved this book. it is definitely the best of the rhyme series. (Although, admittedly, i have only read two.) I enjoyed the Bone Collector a great deal, and this one is even better. I fairly raced through it as Deaver kept piling on the twists and turns. His characterisation is so subtle that you don't even notice it. A sign of a truly great writer. <br />The plot is a cracker. I'm not going to describe it, because i don't like doing that. this is a review, not a synopsis. But rest assured that it is great. it keeps you turning the pages at great, whilst the obnoxious Percey Clay seems determined to undermine Rhyme in everything he says and does. <br />A great cast of characters, a great plot, and a great twist to the end. Some people get tired of all the twists, but what's the point? Just let the water rush over you. Enjoy them while they last.	2002-02-23
1644353:US	40684262	R1NWZJFV865IVQ	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great hostage novel	This is a wonderful novel of suspense. It is the best hostage novel i have read ever, apart from Jeffery Deaver's A Maiden's Grave, echoes of which can be heard in this work. <br />This is a fast-paced book, with a great plot. Crais takes it a step-up from a nomral hostage thriller, adding extra dimensions to the plot and developing it into much more than just a seige thriller. <br />Jeff Talley is a great character, and one which i would love to read more of. He is slightly flawed, but he is basically just a good man trying to do the right thing in a situation which he himself doesn't really want to be in. <br />Right from the beginning until right to the end this is a great hostage thriller, with some great characters, and a great twist. You shouldn't miss it. It reads at break-neck pace, and is very satisfying.	2002-02-23
1648871:US	40684262	R231J5ZDW85CJ6	0385496958	232124605	The Treatment: A Novel	Books	5	16	17	N	N	I have not read such a realistic thriller. Ever.	This book is simply one of the best thrillers i have ever read. <br />Mo Hayder is just so good at what she does it's amazing. <br />Her characterisations are immaculate, her characters believeable, her plots disturbingly realistic, etc etc. <br />Her writing is superbly dark. <br />The plot of this novel is very disturbing, very chilling. Even i winced once or twice at the motivations of the killer, and what he was making his victims do. And it's so realistic. That is perhaps why it is so disturbing. there is no \\"well, this is only fictio\\" factor. Everything struck home so well, she has the police procedure right down to the last detail, the psychology is spot on, the characters so so human and utterly believable. <br />Hayder is great at teasing the reader, at dangling the proverbial carrot in front their noses. It is full of near misses and what if's. The police \\"come close\\" to finding Rory Peach alive, they \\"almost\\" manage to save Ewan Caffery, the killer is \\"nearly\\" caught. However, she knows when not to overuse a plot device, and keeps it to the minimun, and ups the tension and hopelessness of the story with it. <br />Jack Caffery is a great character, very flawed, obsessed with his brothers disappearance so many years ago and the man next door who is convinced kidnapped and killed him. At the end of the last book, we saw him slip over the edge and willingly kill the serial killer, and manage to pass it off as an accident, but this time round he's back, and striving to make his life ok, and get rid of those demons by finding out once and for all what happened to his brother. <br />It is a great side-plot to the main storyline. One day a family are taken capture. The mother is chained up to a radiator, while the father and son are held somewhere else. At the end of the ordeal, he is about to let them go, when he is disturbed, so he quickly takes the boy and runs out into the woods at the back of the house. The hunt is on to find the boy, Rory Peach. While his father is haunted by what the killer made him do to his son. Soon, though, the police will find Rory, but not the way they would have hoped...<br />This is a stunning thriller, and i cannot praise it highly enough. It speeds along at breakneck pace with twists and turns, and a stunning conclusion. There are two plots running side by side, and each is hauntingly realistic. <br />Mo Hayder is Britain's brightest young talent. definitely one to watch. Better than any American-produced thriller i've read, this year or last. (which is saying something.)	2002-02-19
1649947:US	40684262	RUA0D9B3BV9DZ	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Florentine Delights	I'm only 15. When Silence of the Lambs came out i was only 2. So, as you can appreciate, i have not had to wait as long as some of you waited for this novel. In fact, i read it only about 2 weeks after i read SoTL. SO, my expectations had not been heightened by the passage of time. <br />Nonetheless, this book is a masterpiece. There is no other word to describe it. <br />Harris is a master. This is a wonderful gesture from Harris, giving the finger to all who fans who expected something rather like a carbon copy of SoTL, or even something vaguely similar. Harris here tells us that his novels will be dictated by what he wants to write, not what the public wants him to write. <br />Harris comes up with a wonderfully gothic plot, and the way he writes is beautiful. The prose sings with intelligence and poetical value. <br />Harris has created some great characters here. He builds on Barney, who we met in the last book, he delves deeper into Clarice's psyche, and explores Hannibal in a way that is vivid and realistic. Not to mention Mason Verger, who does superly as the disfigured and vengeful villain. And beside him you have Margot Verger, who is the best subsidiary character Harris has ever created. At first she is meek, then strong, and at the end finally comes into her gruesome own. Then we have Rinaldo Pazzi, another great character, out to trap Hannibal, but ultimate, inevitably, falls victim to him in a particularly horrible way. Wonnderfully done. <br />Another stunning piece of villainly is Paul Krendler, who we just cheer at when meets his fate. <br />Hannibal Lecter is back, and he is bigger and better than ever.<br />The ending to this book is possibly the best to any fictional piece of writing i have ever come across. The last pages shimmer with brilliance and nostalgia. The last chapter is great, the last paragraphs inspirational, the last line, simply stunning. A great, great ending. <br />Trumps expectations.	2002-02-18
1651206:US	40684262	R1Z8SQIZ9JUGS	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As Peter Straub says, probably the best supernatural novel..	...in a hundred years. <br />And yet, it is so much more than a horror/supernatural novel. <br />King's writing is excellent, easy to understand, nto overcomplicated, and so you can power through it easily and quickly. <br />The characters are great, and the way Jack Torrance's ever increasing madness is described is masterful. It's a fantastic book. Simply. <br />The mood is distinctly claustrophobic, tethered with hints of dark depression. However, the hope which shines through right at the end is wonderful. <br />The beginning of the book tends towards being a bit slow, but that's fine, as it admirably sets the scene and mood, which is something all books need. And the ending is stunning. Probably the best ending King has come up with. Simply great. <br />I can't really think of how to describe this book...so i won't. Just rest assured that if you like a good exciting read, this is definitely the one for you. Haunting, atmospheric, scary, chilling. Read, read, read.	2002-02-17
1651344:US	40684262	RCM5PPQLMF7LS	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stunning	Britin has many shining stars of writing, almost all of whom can outstrip most their American counterparts by miles, in my opinion. (sorry, folks!) Minette Walters, Reginald Hill, Ian Rankin, Ruth Rendell, P.D. James, Nicci French, John Connolly, and Val McDermid. These are all the shining lights of British writing, and with this spectacular new novel by Val McDermid proves why she is among them. <br />It was a while ago that i read this (it came out in the UK in 2000), but it's all still fresh in my mind. the compelling characters, the cracker of a plot, the great writing...All of it. <br />The plot, first of all, is startlingly original (although on first appearances it seems to not to be, but if you look closer, it actually is.). The occasional passages from the books of the dead writers are refreshing and invigorating, and the \\"diary\\" of the criminal also adds pace and interest to the book. The beginning chapter is truly inspirational, and although it is one of the sections which come from the books of the slain writers, we must not forget that it ultimately comes from McDermid, and shows how great her talent really is. <br />The actual device of killing writers is interesting in itself, and because i have an intense interest in them, that made the plot, for me, all the more enjoyable. it gives insight to the world and mind of a writer, and the closed environs of the publishing world. The claustraphobia and loneliness of the profession is brought over well in how Kit feels and acts. <br />Which brings me on to the characters. Fiona Cameron is a great lead. Resourceful, intelligence, an all-round no nosense person and woman of the nineties. She's interesting and compelling. Senisble and attractive, even though we can't actually see her. Haunted, too, by the death of her sister Leslie, which gives a great Epilogue to the tale. <br />There are some other great characters, too. Terry, for example, who lights up the page whenever she appears, and Steve Preston, who'srepressed feelings for Fiona make the book shimmer with an undisclosed tension. <br />Upon reading A Place of Execution, i didn't think she could do any better, but she has. This is probably one of the best novels of the year, certainly the best she has written. It is compelling, exciting, interesting, haunting, chilling. A expertly told tale. <br />This morning i began her latest novel \\"The Last Temptation\\" ... and ithe third novel in the Tony Hill/Carol Jordan series. So far she is showing signs of improving yet again. ...<br />Val McDermid is probably Britain's brightest star, and this novel is worthy of her immense talent.	2002-02-17
1652060:US	40684262	R2VPVB0LAFDTA5	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning. One of his very best.	I raced through this book. <br />Deaver's latest thriller is a chilling journey into the world of cyberspace, and out into something we dare not take a glimpse of. The capacity horror that hides behind the everyday is tapped into by Deaver amazingly well. He could well have ended up writing another boring book on computers, but he manages to avoid that. And instead he comes up with a clever plot, some great characters, and some more great twists, all of which lead to an exciting read. <br />The possibility that such things as this actually happening is all too real, and Deaver exploits that modern fear very well. <br />His characterisation is so subtle that you don't even realise he's doing it until suddenly you realise you're reading a book that has really well rounded characters, and you can't quite place how he made them seem so. It's the sign of a master. <br />The twists he packs in this time are always surprising, and even when he's pulled the rug out from under you, he still has tricks up his sleeve. It's inspirational. I do conform to the view of some of his fans, that his constant turning of the plot on its head can sometimes be done too much. With this one though, it didn't spoil it at all, it just kept me turning those pages. <br />I would doubt that everyone could understand this book, what with it being so &quot;computerish&quot;. If you have never touched a computer in your life, you probably shouldn't read it, because there are many terms in it which you won't understand. If you know a little about them, it's safe for you to read it. But, for example, let's take my grandmother. She knows absolutely nothing about computers. Deaver did explain very well some of the hacker terms, and more complicated stuff, but he failed to exaplin some of the things which are taken for granted. theses seemingly simple things are the ones which some people might not understand. (However, Deaver couldn't very well have exaplained every single word, if he had the book would have read more like a computer manual.)<br />This is probably my favourite of Deaver's books after A Maiden's Grave. It is most certainly worth a read.	2002-02-16
1652228:US	40684262	R2SH24NOIVBH0	0312950489	498818576	The Black Echo (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great debut	MIchael Connelly has been constantly reccomended to me by all sorts of people, and i have finally gotten around to giving him a try. I was not disappointed. in fact, i wish i'd started him earlier. A very pleasing debut. <br />Connelly's writing is very realistic, and quite emotional. It's easy to read whilst at the same time being of a very high quality. He doesn't unnecessarily overcomplicate the plot. <br />Harry Bosch is a very good character, and i am looking forward to reading more about him. Flawed but with his heart basically in the right place. What makes those sort of people so likeable and good for writing books around? I've no idea, but it certainly works. <br />The plot here is good, original, effective. The only thing which seemed out of place was the books length. I felt it could have been shorter by a hundred pages, maybe. It got to draggin on a bit in the middle. However, the climax was great.<br />I will definitely read more of his work, and i think you should too.	2002-02-16
1654394:US	40684262	R2OFLSA0QLUYOK	0609610252	987199096	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Her best ever. so it must be pretty damn excellent.	I have read every single book Ruth Rendell has ever read. Including the Inspector Wexford series, over which i hold no shame about the fact that i don't like them half as much as her psychological thrillers. And this book is the reason why. <br />Personally, i believe that every sane person should read this book. Rendell is a stunning writer, and the way she mixes contemporay issues and events into the storyline makes the book so realistic, and so so chilling. The way she makes references to recent films, newscasters, and a whole other variety of real things which have actually happened is superb. She mixes sharp bits of non-fiction into thickly plotted fiction, and it comes out as more realistic than it might have been had she not. <br />The plot to this one is the best one she has come up with yet. i shan't just give a synopsis of it like some reviews do, i really don't need to read a synopsis of a book when i'm trying to find a review, so i'm sur eyou don't either. But just rest assure,s the plot here is a cracker. <br />She weaves brilliantly the supernatural themes into that of the real life psychology, and it works oh so well. IF she were a lesser writing, the supernatural and the detective side of it would both cancel each other out, but here she mixes each side with great sucess, creating a psychologically gripping novel which you just cannot put down. <br />Rendell is the only writer who can ever really chill/disturb me. Her psychology is so accurate, and the weird disturbed characters made to seem to real. It is frightening to think that people like that could really be living next door to you, living in your street, on your train as you go to work, on the bus with you, in the cinema with you, in the supermarket with you, ahead of you in the queue. That is yet another of her major strengths. She creates a chilling and disturbing book just by using realism and accurate psychology. It's all very subtle. <br />She is also excellent at the hoplessness many ofher plots convey. the sense of the inevitable, the sense of the train heading toward another on the same rails, and an immiment collision which cannot be stopped. Things are going nice and slowly, events pannining out nicely, until all at once they crash together with devastating consequences for all involved. <br />Rendell's subsidiary characters are all great too. there are a particularly great \\"little and large\\" couple, who create a nice light break at times of high tension. <br />There are very few characters to like in this book, which may be it's only downside, however, a strength is that even though i didn't lke them, i still cared about what happened to them, and really really wanted to know more about their lives once the book finished. (Tami Hoag is an excellent author if you like feeling that sort of thing.) I was sad to put this book down, as i had waited so long for it. Two years since A Sight for Sore Eyes. I didn't think she could improve on that, but she has. This is a winning book, and it is clear that Rendell cannot put a single foot wrong. <br />She defines the word superb.	2002-02-14
1656507:US	40684262	R1CXB2HTBWWT5F	0312206100	301979646	The Falls: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rankin, but down a different path	This Rebus novel is quite different from the rest of the cannon. It seems somehow less dark, les forbidding, but that is just on the surface. Underneath it is just as dark and sinister as the rest of them, but this time that darkness is carried over more subtely, so much so that you don't even notice. <br />Ian Rankin's prose is sharp and often witty, and his Edinbuirgh (Which in this is perhaps at the most vivid it ever has been) is superbly drawn. I live a long way away from the city, and have never been there, yet i still get an intense picture of it in my mind. Rankin's Edinburgh pulses with energy and throbs with a dark sinister evil that you cant quite place. <br />The plot in this one contains no big gansters, no organised crime. Just a simple (appearing so at first, at least) puzzle about the disappearance of a young girl. Also, as a subplot Rankin brilliantly interweaves the step back into history, and as Rebus excavates the soil surrounding the truth about the Arthur's Seat coffins. All of it is very cleverly done, and you want to know the solution to each puzzle, even though one is centred years and years in the past, equally as much. <br />Rebus is more sombre this time around, and you get the sense that he is slowing down somewhat, Rankin as well as Rebus. And with his new love interest (who is the most promising of the lot) we begin to see a bright new spark in John, as he glimpses something for him which lies past the job...<br />This is a very good book, and Rankin is one of the shining stars of British writing. Long may he continue to be so. ....	2002-02-13
1656666:US	40684262	R3LKN5HE0UOF3C	0553290533	942986333	Magic (Rainbow Chasers)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Not half bad, actually	I read the first reviews here before starting it, so was well aware of the possiblility i might be dissappointed. <br />How wrong could i have been? I am now, after reading it, amazed at the other reviews. I enjoyed this book SO much. <br />She is without doubt one of my favourite authors, and this book is although maybe not her best, still pretty ... good. <br />The plot is good, it's a great romance story. the characters i feel are as always, brilliant. it was so refreshing to find out that the Bryan wasnt her ususal \\"evil on the surafce, complete puppy underneath\\" type men. as i can see it that is her only failing. her men are always the same. <br />but not with this one, it might be an earlier work, but it certainly does shine. <br />It's quite simply a lovely book. the relationships between the characters are great, and the way she deals with addie's worseining illness is a great show of what an exceelent author Hoag is. <br />this was a very nice light read. it is admittedly a romance, something which i dont usually tend to go for. not because i dont like them, but simply because i prefer mystery/thrillers. and it's a really good romance. it's light hearted and doesnt take itself too seriously. <br />i really liked the \\"fearsome foursome\\" aspect, and i liked the way she did manage to weave a hint of intrigue into the romance-dominated plot. <br />my only criticism of this lovely book is the ending. not all of it, just one aspect. i feel the part where bryan strikes up a conversation with a ghost is very out of place, and didnt quite fit. it added a nice twist, and made it more original i suppose, but i didnt really like it. i think she might have taken that a bit OTT. <br />all in all this is not her best book, but it is not, in my opinion, as bad as the other reviews claim. <br />i advise that if you are a fan of hoag, or simply of light romance novels, you do read it. <br />and judge for yourself	2002-02-13
1658840:US	40684262	R3VNBVKT4VSOSV	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great, great thriller	This is probably one of the best thrilers of 2001. Harlan Coben is definitely onto a winner with this book. <br />The plot is a stunner, i shan't bother summing it up here, as it's probably been done many times before. But trust me, it's a corker. Coben could have, but wisely didn't, overcomplicate the book. because of this it is a great, simple, easy to understand read, which just makes those pages turn even faster (there's nothing worse than reading a complicated pageturner, where you want to keep turning those pages, but because the details are so complicated, you have to keep re-reading bits to make sure you understand all the parts of the plot.)<br />David Beck is a great character, and the reader feels great empathy and sympathy for him, not just during the first (superb) chapter, but throughout the rest of the book, when we think, having found her, he might loose Elizabeth yet again. <br />This is a very emotionally charged book, with many twists and turns, which keep you reading, never letting you lull into boredom. This was my first Coben book, and definitely not my last. I cannot wait for Gone for Good, and after that, i may well make my wya into his Myron Bolitar series. <br />Certainly a must-read.	2002-02-11
1678275:US	40684262	RHMM6MDKE7AE4	0345341988	297982077	Death Notes (Inspector Wexford)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Still very fine, but not great...	This is still a fine, engaging mystery, but to be honest Put on By Cunning does lack the special little ingredient that marks out Rendell's best Wexford stories. Wexford himself doesn't seem quite as sharp, not quite such a presence, and there is nothing in this book that really makes it stand out as unique among her work, although as I say it is still a fine enough mystery and better than most books on the market today. I certainly don't think it could be much longer than it is (which is not something you could say of msot of her work - most of them beg to be lengthier, and the reader desperately wishes they were so, to prolong the experience. Wisely, though, Rendell keeps them at the length which is necessary) as it is not as hugely interesting as some of her books.<br />It tells the story of the investigation into the death of renowned flautist Sir Manuel Camargue, who is found dead in a snow-drift having ventured outside his house during the night. At first it seems a straightforward case of death by misadventure; a nice easy case for Wexford to tie up. However, Wexford has his niggling doubts, which are strengthened by the return of Camargue's estranged daughter, now his heiress, after a considerable absence of 19 years.<br />As I say, Put on By Cunning is a fine enough novel by any standard, but just not quite as engaging or special or interesting as Rendell's novels usually are. Certainly not the one to start with. This probably requires an already healthy appreciation of the series.	2002-01-27
1679431:US	40684262	R3KU3JHNRWHQV0	0553561278	73819013	For the Sake of Elena	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The best one so far...but....	This is a good novel. not merely a crime or mystery novel...a good novel. <br />the writing is good, the characters are great and interesting, the plot is probably her ebst so far, but could well have done with a bit more development. <br />The way she deals with deafness was quite good, very unpatronising, but if she wanted it to become more of a theme, she should have spent a little more time with the Deaf people assosciated with the story, instead of just glancing over them as she seemed to. <br />But there is one point where she comes miserably unstuck. <br />Right at the beginning...the first chapter even. The writer is told the golden rule &quot;never lie to your readers&quot;....which, in this novel, was something Elizabeth george definitely does. <br />I am trying to think of ways to describe her flawm whilst at the same time not telling you who did it. Let's just say...the way a certain person acts at the start definitely works against the fact that they turn out to be the murderer. It's wrong psychology...the way the characters had acted, when we find out they were the murderer, is just nonsense. <br />However, in all other aspects, this is a great great book. In this series, it is second only to A Traitor to Memory. <br />It has one of the best motives of any crime novels i've ever read. some people have said it's very unbelieable and would not have given rise to the sort of feelings shown in the killing of Elena. But those people just do not understand....when i read what Tony Weaver was made to do, i was horrified. Being a &quot;creator&quot; (albeit of a differnt type of art) myself, i can well understand what drove the killer to do the deed. <br />This is a marvellous book in the fact that by the end of it, almost all your opinions of the characters have compeltely reversed. Well, i certainly found mine doing that. <br />At the start, i liked Justine, but by the end, i just plain hated her. Anthony Weaver first comes across as quite a nice man...but then his true personality is revealed. I started off disliking Gareth Randolph, but by the end felt very sorry for the poor lad. And Sarah Gordon, who i started off as being completely indifferent to, i came to feel intense sympathy for, and liked a great deal. Glyn Weaver, i started off feeling sympathetic toward, but by the end i just couldn't stand her. <br />This is a great book, highly reccomeneded. However, you must of course start at the start. With A Great Deliverance.	2002-01-25
1692798:US	40684262	R1OCG3M0ONBJ6W	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not at all bad	this being an early Deaver, it is natural to suspect taht it wouldnt be as good as some of his later ones. In general, its right. THis is not as good as some later books, but its still pretty good. <br />The plot is nicely simple. Not too much complicated stuff to get your head round. The characters are good, and he leaves space for them to be further dweveloped. Presumably, this will come in the next two books (as it would in any good series). <br />Rune is a nice lead character, nicely contemporary. Some people've said she's annoying, but personally, i didn't think so. On the surface she comes across as naive, but gradually you see that she isnt as so as you first thought. she might have got her head in the clouds, but her feet are still firmly on the ground...<br />as always with a deaver novel, there are twists a-plenty. and ill admit, here they werent quite as complex as some of his later novels twists, but they are just as viable. and still i didnt guess them. (I gave up trying long ago!)<br />The writing is good, the plot is good, the characters are good. What more could you want?<br />As, presumably, this was his first novel, it's a very worthy effort. I look forward to the next Rune novels.	2002-01-15
1698803:US	40684262	R10NKAWYVS86MD	0385336004	587637152	Dialogues of the Dead	Books	5	20	23	N	N	5 stars just isnt enough	I have long been a fan of Reginald Hill, prefering his Dalziel and Pascoe to most other things he writes. And with this book, he has truly surpassed himself. <br />This is the best book i have read in 2001. (it was published in march 2001 here) and i enjoyed it more than i think i have ever enjoyed anything. Hill's plotting is superb, and his characters equally sublime. <br />This is truly a word puzzle, he lays out the clues for you along the way, but in such a way that you dont realize youre being fed clues (and in some cases red herrings) When you get to the end, it all makes some kind of glorious sense, and you wonder how stupid you were for missing all the little hints. <br />This IS his best d&amp;p. and perosnally, it is probably my favourite book ever. (i speak nay in jest). the characters in this book are superb, especially Hat Bowler and Rye Pomona. They are rather simple, (alright, only Hat is, Rye is as deep as the maraianas trench) but his simplicity is compelling. He holds some kind of innocence, a son-like quality, which just makes you care for him and want it all to work out well for the poor lad. <br />It was a great book, until the end. Upon which it became a SUPERB book! Hill really outdoes himself with the end (and i really really hope they didnt change it one iota in the american version, as they sometimes tend to do, because it really was a great ending). For pages he's tricking you, then suddenly you see it all. You're in shock, then he explains it, making you feel like an idiot for not spotting it sooner. <br />Really, you should read some of the previous d &amp; p books, as there are some vague references to them. You can probably get by without having read them, but if you read An Advancement of Learning, it will certainly help you. <br />As ever, Dalziel brings forth many a chuckle. But in this book he seems to take a back seat, becomeing much more the overseer of events, taking on a somewhat god-like quality. He isnt always right there, but his prescence and influence can almost always be felt. <br />This is, in short, nothing less than a superb book. If you miss it, you are definitely missing out, on a great reading experience. <br />You dont even have to like word puzzles. Whatever sort of book you like, this is one not to miss. Under any circumstances. <br />and just revel in the ending	2002-01-10
1704540:US	40684262	R1P8RDES2GQLF0	0743203321	229095796	Dark Hollow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Proves he is worthy	Personally, i thought his debut Every Dead Thing was a little complicated and overlong, but nevertheless still quite a good book. But this this book he doesn't have so many plot strands, and keept it a bit shorter, so he can concentrate much more on what we really care about. Caleb Kyle and Charlie Parker. <br />This second novel, as the title suggests, is a very dark story, with a bleak atmopshere. It's much more involved than the first, and the plot is a lot more intriguing. It kicks off brilliantly, with the mob shoot out, and then the creepy happenings of an old woman going walkabout from a home. And it doesnt let up there. From then on in its creepy and haunting all the way. <br />&quot;Caleb Kyle, Caleb Kyle, when you see him run a mile&quot; goes the old saying assosciated with an old killer who has now been somewhat forgotten, and taken on a myth-like quality. But now he's back. <br />Connolly's writing is superbly lyrical and he brilliantly evokes atmosphere and fear. There is violence and horror, so this might not be the ideal book for some, but intertwined with this violence is a superb plot and a great lead character in the shape of Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker, who, while still being somewhat flawed, is still likeable. (Rather in the style of Ian Rankin's JOhn Rebus.) <br />The plot, as ive said, is a cracker. It should be complicated...but it just isn't. Connolly explains it very well, and its easy to grasp. Not once did i find myself confused, as i did with his previous. <br />This time around Louis and Angel have more action and page space, which is good, because they're very interesting characters. In a way, it would be quite interesting to see what they would do if they had a book to themselves. I doubt it would be quite as good as if Bird was included, but it would still be a good enjoyable read. <br />Now, onto the ending and the final &quot;denouement&quot;...<br />It's superb. there is a great twist in the tail, and everything is explained admirably. The solution is cunning and chilling. This was one of my books of 2000. (when it came out.)<br />Only one thing remains to be said. His next novel, The Killing Kind, is even better. So, if you can't wait for it to be published in the US, buy it from amazon.co.uk. (also, his new book &quot;The White Road&quot; the fourth Parker book, is due out here in march in hardcover.)<br />Do not let yourself pass this author by.	2002-01-07
1713887:US	40684262	R37JNAACILE49D	0006510655	236022288	Dream of Darkness	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Definitely not his best work	Ummm....no. I didn't really like this installment in Mr Hill's cannon. It's got quite a good idea, but it falls flat somewhere. He just isn't good at writing these types of stories. It happend with &quot;The Long Kill&quot;, which was only slightly better than this. Also with The Only Game, and Death of A Dromouse. They just seem to strike a wrong note. It's as if they're written by a different person, one incapable of writing this type of story. <br />He is definitely a detective novelist, and should stick to it. This shines through at the end, when he adds the elements of mystery. It is where the book redeems itself, by the fact that the &quot;denouement&quot; is very good, in traditional Agatha Christie style. <br />However, the rest of it just doesn't really work. It is by no means a bad book, i just didn't really see much point in it...I didn't really care about any of the characters, because they were all (except Vita) quite wooden. The writing of the African way of life makes it clear he has not even as much as visited the country, he just glosses over that completely, making the book seem a lot less authentic. <br />The overall book, the whole spy/espionage tirade, is so complicated and contrite i am still not sure what really went on, and i refuse to read it again just to clarify. <br />If you want to read Hill, my advise would be to ignore this one. Stick with dalziel and pascoe.	2001-12-31
1714091:US	40684262	R1SD7O20IFZQTQ	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Not as good as some might claim.	Silence of the Lambs it aint, despite the comparisons. In fact, i had to debate with myself whether to give this three of four stars. I don't know why i chose four, but hey. <br />Anyway, this is a very well written book. His prose is very lyrical and his descriptions are superb. however, this book is just too...complicated? Maybe that isn't the word. Busy. Yes, it's a very very busy book. there is a lot going on, a lot to concentrate on. the multiple plot strands don't really serve a purpose, and just detract from the hunt for the &quot;travelling man&quot;. <br />this is a rather average debut, nothing speical. However, he shows great promise. If he only would cut out some of the characters and needless plotlines, this would be a classic. In his next book, Dark Hollow, he did this. And it was a lot better. Dark Hollow is certainly a five star book. As is his third Parker novel, the Killing Kind, to be published in the US some time in 2002 i believe. <br />This book is just the beginning of his talent. He gets better and better. So even if you don't like this one much, you are almost guaranteed to love his others.	2001-12-31
1715339:US	40684262	RLASNH6AEB3OT	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Signs of weakness	This book has a great premise, and although it's hardly original, Patterson does make it seem so. It's a very sad book. Well, how could a book about the deaths of newlyweds NOT be sad? And patterson touches upon this sadness in a very good way. he doesn't let us linger or wallow in it, but just gives us a sense of it with one or two sentences, then moves on. <br />However...although the plot is good, that is really all it has going for it. The writing is shallow, lacking the depth which was present in his early works, and his characters are just stereotypical and cliched. Even the nice twist about Lindsay's disease wasn't handled very well. Just a cliche, and we didn't really care, because we knew nothing serious was going to happen. the title &quot;1st to Die&quot; is just screaming out to you that there's going to be a series of Lindsay Boxer novels, with the next title having something to do with &quot;2nd&quot; (Chance, as it happens) 3rd, (my guess is &quot;Time Lucky&quot;) etc. So we know she isn't going to die. So it just kills any suspense or sympathy, because we know she'll get better. <br />Patterson claims that living up in a house full of women gave him a good background for writing from their perspective. If so, it doesn't show. Lindsay is slightly stereotypical, and just a cliched woman in a man's world. She fits the old time view of women, as all they care about being shopping, gossip with friends, etc.. But it just doesn't ring true. Patterson shouldn't write women.<br />This book's conclusion is his most complicated since Jack And Jill, and when Patterson get's complicated, it falls apart. I dont read his books to get complicated endings and for him to dazlle me with his deception, i read them because they are relatively uncomplicated thrilers. This one was until the end. <br />The one redeeming thing about this novel is it's excellent plotline. The rest of it, though, is a bit below average.	2001-12-30
1715641:US	40684262	RH818LBCUGNM3	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Extremely good	Being relatively new to Stephen King, (only Bag of Bones and Pet Sematary read thus far) I didn't know whether it would be wise to read this before building up a more intimate knowledge and feel for his work. (I dont know why i thought that, i just did. Now it seems a bit ridiculous. Why on earth should it matter??<br />Anyway...as an aspiring author (ho ho ho, the ridiculous dreams these kids have today) i found this book extrememly informative and helpful. I love the little tips he gives, and when you think about it they make a load of sense. Of course, you aren't going to agree with everything he says, very few people would. but then, he never claims this is the definitive way to do things, just how it has worked for him. So you can understand how it might across that he feels this is the &quot;correct&quot; way to do things.<br />The autobiographical segment i found a tad boring. (I'm not one for reading biographies, i much prefer a good story.) However, you definitely can't say he's had a boring life. It might have been better if he had mixed it all up, instead of splitting it into two sections. Generally, i love finding out information about &quot;the people behind the books&quot; but in this case, it didn't actually give me much to know. Alright, he's said a lot, but has he really told us anything? Certainly it was nothing i didn't already know. It was just given in a lot more detail. I'm fascinated by writers, aspiring to be one, but i have decided that if you learn too much about them, they loose their mysticality, and become more normal, and nothing special. When I'm shown that really a writer is just a normal person, they loose some of their charm in my eyes. I can no longer embellish the facts i know to create a person who seems somewhat out of this world. (You probably think im a little strange).<br />However, even though it wasn't necessarily interesting to me, it was certainly funny. He has a great sense of humour, and it shows. It was also quite moving, especially the tale of how he came to write Carrie (but again, we got a little too much info. in the UK version of Carrie he wrote a foreword which told of how he wrote it, but it did it in less detail. In this book, he gave us too much.)<br />the writing tips i shall consider invaluable, i always do when i learn something which will improve the way i write. This is a great book &quot;on writing&quot;, the snippets of info and advice are interesting even to a person who doesn't aspire to write. (My mom, who has read it since.) <br />Thank you Mr King	2001-12-30
1716223:US	40684262	R3S0CUNM3QZFI2	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Ummmmmm	I wonder if anyone actually bothers to take notice of any of these reviews. As i write, the sale tally for this book is 1921. And yet the star rating is 1.4. On amazon.co.uk the sale tally is 155 (much smaller population, so this is in fact quite a large number for a newly released hardback novel) and the star rating 1.6.<br />And nearly all the reviews are bad. And several claim it to be the worst book. So does anyone actually bother to read the reviews, or take any notice of what they say? Why do they buy the book, almost knowing that they wont like it? they can't explain it away by claiming they didn't read the reviews. So what? Even if you don't read the reviews, you can't miss the pathetically low rating it's been given. <br />To some extent i do agree with the average rater here, this is definitely not Cornwell's best work. But i also don't think it's as bad as some people are claiming it to be. Okay...it's not exactly a &quot;serious&quot; book, and it's nothing like her usual style, but i did definitely enjoy reading it. I completed it in three days, and i wasn't bored once. And i did laugh several times. I actually enjoyed the essays by &quot;Trooper Truth&quot;  (in spite of the ridiculous name) They were interesting. <br />She has done her research well, and if this is a book only used as a device to show people that, then she has suceeded. But in many other ways, she has failed. The public hate it. And i can see where they're coming from. the plot is somewhat lacluster and ridiculous, and the characters are hardly likeable. Scarpetta, in her woefully inadequate incarnation, is just wooden. If this were a book being submitted for publication, it would definitely not be accepted, even as a history textbook. <br />Her writing style though, is what redeems it. It is nonetheless a fun book to read (despite your protestations to the contrary) it is light, vaguely amusing, interesting, and a good enjoyable book. <br />Some of the characters and things they do are just stupid, yes. (i.e the governor) but it didn't really matter. Not if you weren't expecting a serious read. Which i long ago gave up hope of with these Andy Brazil novels. It seems other people haven't learnt what to expect. The Hammer/Brazil novels are NOT designed as serious crime novels, they are designed as fun enjoyable books, and i personally think she has suceeded. <br />You can tell from reading it that it must have been quite fun to write. I don't think she took it too seriously, which is sometimes a good thing. <br />One quibble, &quot;Unique First&quot;. Ms Cornwell, a characters name should not be a shortcut to their characterisation. It's lazy writing and bad technique. <br />Sadly, your public are disappointed. Which probably disappoints Ms Cornwell too, as i suspect that if someone asked her which of her books she preferred, she would say the Brazil ones. It can't be a nice experience knowing that her public hate the thing she most likes writing. <br />Anyway, i shall give this book four stars even though it probably doesn't deserve them. but hey, people don't seem to take much notice of the reviews, so it doesn't really matter.	2001-12-29
1732061:US	40684262	RZQODDNMARXIW	055356160X	760759205	Cry Wolf: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best, by the best	Tami Hoag currently holds the not-at-all coveted position of &quot;my favourite author&quot;. I have read every single book she has ever written, save Sarah's Sin, which thus far i have been unable to find in the UK. <br />I find the way in which she is not scared to mix two genres together wonderful. And she does it brilliantly. The aspects of the love story and the tense and atmospheric thriller are beautifully intertwined, in what is perhaps one of the best books i have ever read. <br />This book features her two most fascinating lead male and female ever. Laurel Chandler is a superb creation, and Jack Boudreaux is the best male she has ever written. They are simply brimming with fascinating things to garner from their personalities. <br />Hoag strikes a brilliant balance between character and plot, and in this novel she surpasses herself. I am unable to think of a single character who wasn't interesting and multi-faceted. Every single one is necessary to the story, and she gives a short shrift to none of them. She treates them all equally, and recognises their important. And, as i have said, this book presents her most fascinating cast of people yet. There is the revered Reverend, Savannah, Laurel's mother, Jack, and a plethora of others. <br />The thing about this novel that i loved is the attention to all the little things about the characters lives, not just how the big picture affects them. Every character has a relevant story to tell, and they all interesting. It is like a hundred mini novels piled into one super-novel. There are so many strands of life, so many things going on in the people's lives. Admittedly, they aren't all relevant to the central plot, but if they were that wouldn't emulate real life so well. Which Hoag's novels always suceed in doing brilliantly. however, it doesnt matter that each thing isnt necessarily relevant to the plot, because they are all so interesting in themselves. For exampole, there is Laurels relationship with her mother, Savannah's relationship to the man who's name i forget, Savannah's relationship with the Minister, the Minister's fight to close the cafe (a.k.a &quot;brothel of sin&quot;) jack's making peace with himself over his dead wife, and all the other wonderful things to do with each character. <br />This book is rich in everything, plot, interest, suspense. And what it is richest in is the relationships between all it's characters. They are fascinating, never boring. I am rambling, i know, because i can't actually think of any words to describe how mind-bogglingly brilliant this novel is. <br />This novel is unbearably short. It's 500 and something pages flicked by an instant, i was so engrossed in this wonderfully realistic world which Hoag has created. I truly did not want it to end, and i still wish it hadn't. This is a book i wanted to read again as soon i had put it down, just so i could get back to those characters. <br />Hoag's novels are wonderful in many ways, the main one being that she is unbeatable at characterisation. At the close of every single novel, whatever the actual quality of plot or writing, you always always would dearly like to know more about the futures of the characters. Hoag makes you really care for them, and it's truly sad when you have to say goodbye. It is her brilliance at drawing characters characters that made me almost shut the book in frustration and sorrow as i suddenly realised what was going to happen later on, when *you know who* became the victim of the killer. It was shattering, because Hoag makes you feel such empathy, and care so much, no matter what the flaws are. <br />In short this is a great great novel. <br />If ever there was a book i could go on reading forever, and be happy to do so, this would be it.	2001-12-15
1739494:US	40684262	RR96UKQX7WMX5	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Is this the best book you'll ever read? &quot;YES!&quot;	I don't really know why i am even bothering to throw these stones of opinion into this already over-filled pool of reviews here. But for some reason i feel compelled to, because this is a book i just cannot forget. Even after reading it over a year ago now, i can still recall how brilliant it was, and how shatteringly sad. Still, after these short 13 months I still want to go up to people in book shops and scream at them to buy it. It's THAT good. I find myself wanting to tell everyone i meet about it. I've already made my mother read the entire trilogy, and she loved it. It is not often i read books again, but i know i shall this one (and the entire series). <br />I came to this stunning trilogy with low expectations. I don't generally read fantasy novels, or novels intended for younger readers. (even though i am one, currently at the tender age of 15) But i left with a richer life. That is not an exaggeration. I actually feel better within myself for reading this book. It is probably a feeling that stems out of knowing what i would have missed had i not read them. <br />These three great novels (for they are not mere books) deal with w wonderful myriad of issues. Religion being one. And he [Pullman] deals with them in a wonderful way. This book is a true education in philosophy, but it is writen such that you don't actually realise you're sitting the class. You're too wrapped up in the story to notice. <br />And what a story it is. The plot is relentless and captivating. There is something magic about it all. You are right there with Will and Lyra, feeling everything they feel, thinking everything they think, experiencing everything they experience. An example of his brilliany way of making you feel you ARE the characters is when Lyra and Will have to seperate from their daemons. As humans, we can't really comprehend the feelings and the emotions both the children, because we are incapable of feeling them, as we will never ever be in a similar situation. But Pullman's majesty is that you DO. You really feel for them. You're sad for them. Even though you cannot know what it feels like, Pullman's marvellous writing is able to MAKE you. <br />The characters in this story are wonderful. Pullman draws them with utter precision and skill, capturing their emotions and feelings perfectly. It's one of the books major strengths, it's all so accurate. You might think that a middle aged Oxford prof would have a little trouble being able to write about children and their feelings in a relistic way, but he doesn't. <br />Some people say that the emotional bond the two children form is a bit unrealistic, and that some of the feelings they have are a bit too mature. That, in short, is nonsense. Being only three years ago i well remember how i felt aw 12. At that age you are at your most emotionally susceptible period, so everything you feel is hightened. And to top that, these two kids have been through a lot of tough stuff, so it's no surprise they are experiencing what might be considered adult emotions, because they will have grown up very quickly, learning responsibility at a very young age and being much more emotionally mature. <br />And not only are those two characters, so are all the rest. Serafina, Mary, and Mrs Coulter (especially her). The whole book is populated with wonderful people and wonderful events which just keep it steaming ahead to it's powerful conclusion. And WHAT a conclusion!<br />This book was the first book i had ever read that made me cry. No, not cry, weep. I had never shed a tear upon reading a book in my whoel life, but with this one i did. And trust me, crying is not something a 15 year old male does at the drop of a hat. Especially this hard-hearted old sod. But this book was truly heartbreaking. I had about 150 pages to go, and i thought i would have a quick bath and read a bit whilst there. I only expected to read about 25 pages at most, I'm not one for having hugely lengthy baths. But i started, and i couldn't stop. <br />I lay there for three hours, until the water was freezing cold, but i didn't care. I read it slowly, and i savoured it. I concentrated on every single sentence, every single word. And i didnt get out until I had finished it. <br />And i had had no idea it was coming. It was completely an unexpected ending (for some people it will have been as clear as day how it was going to end, but i don't like to think about how things might end, because it spoils it) and when the ending finally did come, i was shattered. Tears were streaming down my face, and i couldn't believe what he'd done. I cursed him for ending it that way. And it stayed with me for ages. In fact, it is still with me. It is a book that i know i will never be able to forget, and this is a series no reader, of matter what genre, should pass by. <br />Comparisons to Harry Potter are many, but none of them actually tell the truth. They say &quot;as good as J.K. Rowlings Harry Potter&quot;, but many of them dare to state the reality. Which is that they are better. I have read the Harry Potter, and really liked them. And i have read these. Phillip Pullman surpassed Harry Potter in every way. They pale in comparison to his superior trilogy, his superior writing, his superior (and not repetative) plots, his brilliance. <br />I implore of you, please these books. Your lives will be a better thing for it. <br />This one of the few books which a five star rating of is a severe injustice. Ten would also be too small a number.<br />Buy it, please.	2001-12-09
1741251:US	40684262	R1ZX8SZQYFNC5W	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	1	1	2	N	N	No. Enough is Enough	\\"You are about to read James Patterson's sixth No. 1 Bestseller in a row, and perhaps his best.\\" (it is a huge perhaps) Says the inside of the English version of this new novel, published here in early October.   <br />You would be easily forgiven is you believed this statement, especially after reading the brief synopsis on the inside cover. And coupled with the fact that a year's worth of expectation has built up after the climax of Roses are Red, this book comes packed full of expectation. <br />It is ultimately expectation that remains unrealised. Apart from the abismal Pop Goes the Weasle, this is his worst book yet. <br />Which is a shame, because the actual ideas he has a great. \\"Alex Cross is drawnm into his most bizarre investigation yet. two San Franciso joggers are found dead - bitten and hung by their necks to drain the blood. Further murders in California, and then on the East Coast as well, completely baffle Alex and the FBI. Is this the work of a cult, of role players, or even of modern-day vampires? DFesperate to stop te deaths, Alex teams up with savvy San Francisco detective Jamilla Hughes, and the FBI's Kyle Craig. But Alex has never been closer to defeat, or in greater danger. (...)<br />To be honest, i thought it would be great. Another brilliant addition to the Cross saga. <br />How wrong could i be? The premise is great, the vampire killings and the cult. But that is all tha tis great. in James Patterson's hands it just falls to pieces. <br />There are several things niggling me about this book. <br />1. The book was a mess. The killings were a mess and the plot was a mess. For every single book thus far Patterson has decided that all the killings must have been going on for year and years, reaping many victims, and that they are only coming to light now. I'm sick of it. I do not want to constantly read of murders going back decades and many many victims. His body count is far too high. and because of that the plot strands all fall apart. It'sa mess. He doesn't really seem to know where the book's going, and he just chucks and event in to keep the book going. The killings are to random, with no motive at all. I know that it is meant to be like this, hence adding to the toughness of solving the case, but it just doesn't work. The book is just a mess, an utter mess. <br />2. This book is just Cat and Mouse mark 2. Anyone spot the similarities? A killer from a previous book comes back to haunt Cross, whilst another spate of horrible killings begins. In Cat and Mouse it was Gary Soneji back, and the new kiling being \\"Mr Smith\\". Here it is (???) who comes back, and the vampire killings. Same plot, just a slightly different take. I am not willing to keep re-reading the same book. <br />3. Patterson just seems to chuck in death's whenever he feels like it. In this book there was a death about every ten pages. it was awful. I do not want to read about constant descriptions of scenes of death. I want some investigation, some tension, some POINT to the plot. He just killed someone whenever he felt the book needed another kick, just to keep it going. He was wrong, there are far too many deaths, and it he had kept the deaths to a lower level, the book would have been much better. But we get absolutely no time to feel for the victims at all, which is something you definitely did in the early Cross books. Her eit is just like they are pieces of meat. There is no sympathy in it at all, Patterson is just revelling in the gore. There is no time for anythign else, and it spoils the book. <br />4. Cross is definitely no James Bond. and i am now fed up of his partnering off with every female lead. If Patterson wants to write love stories, then WRITE love stories (not just one). Don't keep stretching the bounds of credibility. It would be more acceptable if Cross were a James Bond type character, just using them for sex, but he isn't. He actually is distrubed enough to claim he is in love with every single one of them. <br/>5. Your books are too short. this one is only 300 pages. make them longer, spend more time on them. dont churn them out like a rabbit churns out offspring. <br />6. And WHAT was the ending about? The \\"confrontation\\" as mentioned on the book Jacket lasted about a page. (...) It was like an express train going at a hundred miles an hour suddenly hitting an impossibly thick tungsten wall. Talk about anti-climax. i had been expectin a \\"pistols at dawn\\" type showdown, but what i got was definitely nothing like it. <br />In short, this book is just bad. Bad bad bad. I shall seriously think about whether or not to buy the next Alex cross.  (and i haven't even mentioned the appaling grasp of language Patterson has)<br />Something that makes this book all the more disappointing is how much Samspson is left out, and the fact that the first 50 pages were actually really good. But from there it was downhill all the way. it wasn't even a pageturner, which is his usual trademark.	2001-12-08
1745169:US	40684262	R3SZOZDU6LXFMI	0446605484	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	fast as ever. Still not well written	I read this 430 page book in two days. Such is James Patterson's mastery of his page-turning craft.<br />Page-turning they are, well written they aren't. IM increasingly coming to think of James Patterson as a comic book novelist. For that is what his novels are like. They are action packed, they have twists, they have turns, but they are about as complex and well written as a comic strip. It's very simplistic, the characters are extremely wooden, especially lately. He is concentrating very much of pageturning thrills, rather than well written novels.<br />I have just finished an earlier thriller of his, Black Market, and it is written extremely well. So from that we can assume that over time he has just abandoned any attempt to write them well, just to concentrate on making them quick reads with many twists and turns, or that he is just rushing his books. I tend to think that this latter option is the correct one. We have had three patterson novels this year, and there is another coming out in February.<br />So, as works of literature these books are awful. But, as thrillers, they are actually superb. The short chapters will always have you reading many more pages than you intended, and the twists and turns will have you turning the pages even quicker to find out what will happen next. His hero, Alex Cross, is very likeable, and like all seemingly good detectives, he has complicated family issues as well as a tough job.<br />But...he also has flaws. His familay are so damn perfect. His wonderful housemaid nana, his picture perfect children, his supportive best friend. I get tired of them. And i have to say i loved the way that in this book Patterson incorporated family tragedy into the plot, concerning his daughter. it gace a definite edge to things.<br />Another criticism, however, is that Alex Cross is not 007. So far, he has fallen in love with the lead female character of every book since Along Came A Spider, which was the very firt Cross novel. First there was Jezzie Flannigan, then Kate McTiernan, then Christine Johnson, then Patsy Hampton, and now Betsy Cavallier in RareR (and he does it again with Jamilla Hughes in the sequel to this, Violets are Blue)<br />I have to say that it is very annoying. Very. For James Bond it worked, because we knew it wasn't a romantic attatchment, just his physical love for them, but here Cross is always telling us how nuch he is in love with them.<br />The plot of this novel is very, very original. And very enjoyable to read. But it does get a bit complicated toward the end, what with Lawrence Szabo, and all the complicitations that he brings.<br />And now, onto the controversial ending.<br />No one has ever disagreed with Patterson's masterful ability at being able to pull the carpet out from under even the most dextrous of armchair detectives, but this time, so might think he's gone a little too far.<br />You will either love the ending, and the questions it throws up, and uncertainties it casts over the entire Cross seris, or you will hate it and feel somewhat cheated. You will think it is ridiculing the rest of the Cross novels. And no doubt the most cynical will call it a sales ploy for the sequel, which i personally don't believe it is. If he hadn't ended it this way, there wouldn't even have been a sequel, because there would have been nothing to follow it on with.<br />All in all, an exciting read, with possibly the most controversial ending ever to grace thriller fiction (Hannibal was not controversial it was great). But the writing could be improved upon once more.was Jezzie Flannigan, then Kate McTiernan, then Christine Johnson, then Patsy Hampton, and now Betsy Cavallier in RareR (and he does it again with Jamilla Hughes in the sequel to this, Violets are Blue)<br />I have to say that it is very annoying. Very. For James Bond it worked, because we knew it wasn't a romantic attatchment, just his physical love for them, but here Cross is always telling us how nuch he is in love with them. <br />The plot of this novel is very, very original. And very enjoyable to read. But it does get a bit complicated toward the end, what with Lawrence Szabo, and all the complicitations that he brings. <br />And now, onto the controversial ending. <br />No one has ever disagreed with Patterson's masterful ability at being able to pull the carpet out from under even the most dextrous of armchair detectives, but this time, so might think he's gone a little too far. <br />You will either love the ending, and the questions it throws up, and uncertainties it casts over the entire Cross seris, or you will hate it and feel somewhat cheated. You will think it is ridiculing the rest of the Cross novels. And no doubt the most cynical will call it a sales ploy for the sequel, which i personally don't believe it is. If he hadn't ended it this way, there wouldn't even have been a sequel, because there would have been nothing to follow it on with. <br />All in all, an exciting read, with possibly the most controversial ending ever to grace thriller fiction (Hannibal was not controversial it was great). But the writing could be improved upon once more.	2001-12-05
1745214:US	40684262	R1Z91CI67J5T7C	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Her best yet. The most wonderful British author for years.	\\"I could never decide where Mad Annie was murdered because she was mad or because she was black.\\"<br />is the cracking first line to Minette Walter's most recent novel. even the author herself admits she is proud of this first line, and i can see why. it says quite a lot about the story. especially if you look at it again once you have completed the book. <br />This book is most certainly a very disturbing book to read. It contains graphic scenes of cruelty to animals, wife beating, drug use, dominant familial relationships, etc.. For this reason many people have criticized this book. they say it is too hard to read, and chills you to the bone. indeed it does. <br />but that is the neauty of Minette Walters. whereas other lesser authors might shya way from writing about such motivational topics, she confronts it head on. With style. she isnt afraid to tackle the issues which make our world the unpleasant place it often is (for example; Child abuse, rape, poverty, racism, sexism, fascism (demonstrated to some extene in The Ice house)). It really impresses me. <br />Admittedly this book is quite different from her normal stuff, much darker, less centring on the psychology of the crime, and more on the aspects and effects of the crime. The narrator, Mrs Ranelagh, the woman who found Annie dying in a gutter in 1978, has made it her quest to discover the truth about the death, even though the police are adamant she was simply knocked down by a car. we never find out her first name. that is significant. it adds even more mystery to her quest. <br />she is simply referred to as \\"M\\". she is not a likeable character by any means, definitely flawed, very determined, and you do at time wonder whether she is in fact stable. she is manipulative, at times dishonest, and it is clear she has an undisclosed motive aside from the want of justice, that keeps her going. <br />no other novel has ever had photographs in it. this one does. of several of the main cahracters. i must admit that no, this does nothing for the plot, although is quite a nice device. it doesnt enhance anything, and does seem superfluous. <br />the letters between the characters however, do enhance the plot. they are peppered throuought the novel and each one adds a little bit more information to what you know of the murder. <br />there are a lot of characters, and a lot of suspects, and it is hard sometimes not to get them tangled in your mind, but they are all well drawn, and all equally flawed. you do not feel one drop of sympathy for any one of them by the end of the novel. (even the woman who is frequently beaten by her husband. do not think this is not possible, it most certainly is)<br />some people say that the ending is not clear. they are wrong. it says who killed her plainly, in black and white, several times. you cant miss it. <br />although there is one killer who perpetrated the act, the message of the novel is blindingly clear. obvious for all to see. <br />by the end you know all to well that in reality there is no one killer. and everyone did it. they all, through their torture of Annie Butts during her life, contributed somewhat to her death. and are therefore ALL responsible. <br />on the very last page of the novel you discover \\"M\\"'s motivation. <br />it is heartbreaking and will, i guarantee, make you weep. <br />(...)	2001-12-05
1750738:US	40684262	R2HWHNCERQLJ6S	0399147012	743933431	Edge of Danger	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Brilliant plot driven novel	Jack Higgins a.k.a Granny's favourite.<br />His world war 2 novels were very well written, with good plots. However, these latest Higgins novels lack something which the early Higgins novels had in abdance. They were obviously written by a person with a high command of the English language. <br />His latest books have been somewhat lacluster in the way they are written. He seems to have cast aside the need to write well in favour of high powered plots. <br />Lucky for him it works. Many authors couldn't get away with letting their writing get slack. But with Higgins, we just don't seem to care. And Why? Because his plots are so damn good. He writes to a very old formula of action novels. There is a flawed but brilliant hero, and a girl, and a formidable enemy. throw in different world location, lots of guns, lots of fighting, and simmer for 15 minutes. It is a very simple formua, and one which he never strays from. SOme people criticise him because they believe this shows a lack of depth and range. In some ways they are right, but in others wrong. It is really great hwo he can just put pen to paper, no matter what he writes, and just make you want to turn the page. Also, it astounds me how he manages to come up with so many differney and exciting ideas which still manage to satisfy his writing formula. it is simple yet effective. <br />This latest book is no less a pageturner than several of his previous ones. He has a great plot here, and a great, and very popular lead character, and one of the best baddies in a long time. <br />extract from blurb: &quot;When Paul Rashid, leader of the Rashid Bedouin of Hazar in the Persian Gulf, uncovers an international conspiracy to deprive his family of the oil wealth that is theirs by right, he vows to gain vengeance. The man sent to stop him is the British Government's uncompromising sevret enforcer Sean Dillon. It is a mission that will test him as never before, confronted by old foes and new in a deadly game of cat and mouse that will take him from Ireland to the USA, and from the heart of the English countryside to the deserts of the Hazar...and the very edge of danger.&quot;<br />This in itself promises a brilliant an exciting book. Especially with such motives of the villain, who the reader empathises with right from the very beginning, hoping against hope that he does in fact gain his vengeance. It's a strange device Higgins uses here, because the reader knows they are not supposed to want the villain to win. But in this book you just can't help it. You feel so much sympathy with the fact with the fact taht Russia and America are trying to take away their families land and oil. You will him on, to win. And you, for once, wish Sean Dillion would fail. It's a book that really toys with your emotions. <br />Because the characters are so compelling, and the plot so great, it more than covers up for the fact that they are not actually very much more than card-board cut outs. He doesn't draw his characters in any depth, but you.just.dont.care. <br />I got through this book in a single day. It's excellent. It starts with a bang (when a gypsy insults Paul rashid's mother and abuses, whereupon Paul goes to the gypsy camp to have it out with the man, and ends up cutting his ear off). and does not let up from there. <br />Higgins writes excellent plot-driven thrillers. As well as being able to be very tender with his writing. There are times when you want to cry (rather like with his previous book &quot;The President's Daughter&quot;).<br />Another good thing about this book is Paul Rashid's sister, Lady Kate Rashid. She's superb. A wonderfully strong willed young woman, who vows vengeance upon Sean Dillion right at the end of the book. I cannot wait for the sequel. Kate Rashid pitted against Dillion, will be an absolutely wonderful read. <br />This book comes highly reccomended, with a stunning plot and compelling characters. You shoudl definitely give it a try if you like quick, exciting reads. But if you think that half the beauty of a book is in the writing, then it probably isn't for you. <br />great. can't wait for Midnight Runner	2001-12-01
1753276:US	40684262	R1AYLC1205KOSG	0451409957	212960003	Flint	Books	2	3	6	N	N	2.5 stars really	Well, there's one thing you can say for him, he tries. He really does. <br />but he ultimately fails. <br />I can't actually understand all the hype which this overrated novel has achieved for itself. I'm actuallt surprised it got published. Not because it's badly written, but because everything about it is just so complicated. I'm surprised hwo any publisher could actually understand enough of the book to be able to say &quot;yes, we'll publish this&quot;.<br />And it is complicated. Very much so. About half way through i gave up trying to comprehend the to-ings and fro-ings of all the stolen money, and just read the rest of it without understanding what it was on about. <br />The whole plot is just far too complex for readers to understand. The financial goings on and exactly who took what and put it in which bank and why  is mind boggling. There is an impossible number of characters, which are all quite similar and often hard to recall which one you are reading about now. You need to keep thinking &quot;now who is this again?&quot;<br />The writing is good, but only language-wise. It doesn't have much depth at all. and none of the characters are very interesting, even Grace Flint, the heroin. Although apart from this, it is quite assured writing, especially for a first novel. Which really isn't all that surprising, he's been writing short stories and other espionage articles for about 25 years. So i would be surprised if it &lt;i&gt;wasn't&lt;/i&gt; assured. <br />THis, at heart, is really a spy thriller for the modern age. the idea it carries is interesting, but Paul Eddy simply makes it far too complicated. It starts brilliantly, with real promise of something great. But sadly these hopes are not realised. He goe son for a bit about all the gadgets etc which members of the special branch carry, which is actually interesting. But it would have benefited the book a great deal if he actually incorporated some of them into it. If some of them had been relevant to the plot it would have made it quite a bit better. <br />Another thing which was confusing was the constant switching between tenses and time frames. I could never fathom which events were supposed to have happened before, which after, and which currently. He seemed to just jump about, filling in bits and pieces here and there until he was satisfied he had written all the important evnts into it. But it is by no means in any sort of chronological order. There is occasionally a switch to an event which happened in the past, which has an effect upon the current scene, btu as soon as it's over, he goes straight onto something else, and doesn't bother telling us what he's on about. <br />The catchphrase on the front of the english version of the book goes like this...<br />&quot;First there was Clarice Starling, now meet Grace Flint...&gt;&quot;<br />NO NO NO! you do not immediately plant preconceptions in readers minds. it always, always disappoints them. (im thinking in particular of the Patricia Cornwell/Kathy Reichs comparison.)<br />and this, as i expeted, only served to disappoint. By comparing her to Clarice Starling the reader automatically expects something which Eddy can not possibly deliver. <br />Also, in this book  there are definitely echoes of Hannibal, by Thomas Harris. It is blindlingly obvious that he's trying to make it seem like Hannibal. The ends are practically the same. and it does NOT work. i can't waork. because the two books are completely different genres. with completely diferent plots. written by completely different authors, each with different ideas. <br />But whereas Hannibal was a masterpice, this book just falls flat on it's face. <br />don't bother with it.	2001-11-29
1755926:US	40684262	RPEYZOSG8BZO5	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	5	2	4	N	N	There IS life without Cross	James Patterson is the best writer of page-turning novels working today. There is no question about that. NO question. His characteristically short chapters - usually of about two pages - coupled with all the twists and turns he packs into his novels, make for the quickest reads around. <br />I can get through a James Patterson novel, of about 550 pages, in two days. or less. <br />Cradle and All was my first introduction to Patterson, and i was impressed beyond belief. For a while this book occupied my #1 Fave spot, but has sadly slipped since its publication in 2000. <br />it is a novel that will blow you away. it might disturb you, but it still leaves you wanting more. the last line cries out for a sequel, although Patterson has gone on record as sayign he wasn't actually planning one. (he may, however, now be.)<br />the basic plot is this: there are two girls, Colleen and Kathleen. Colleen is from a poor farming community in Ireland, and Kathleen is form a rich family in New York. <br />Both girls are teens, and both girls are pregnant. However, the sting in the tail is that both girls are in fact still virgins. they undergo tests, and this is proved to be true. <br />news spreads, and throuought the world this is interpreted as the &quot;Second Coming of the Lord.&quot; The church is in uproar. They believe one girl will bear the son of God, and one the son of the Devil. There is no way to know which girl, the only thing to do is to wait until the births.<br />Along the way there are so many twists and turns your mind boggles with them. And, at the end, there is one final twist (or two final twists) which stun you. <br />the plot of this novel is relentless, you HAVE to know what will happen next, so you HAVE to turn the page. you say to yourself &quot;just one more chapter, they're only short&quot; and you end up reading one hundred more pages. <br />however, Patterson is an author with many faults. True he writes great novels of pageturning suspense, but he is not actually a very good writer. <br />his fisrt wo novels Along Came A Spider and Kiss the Girls were both extremely well written, with good characterisation. but in his latest novels that seems to have slipped a lot. his characterisation is virtually non existent and the writing is poor. <br />Here is an exampe, from first page of Chapter Forty-One. &quot;When i reached her, i threw myself onto the sand beside her. Rolling her gently on her back. I grabbed her under the chin while calling her name. I turned her face to me.&quot; <br />The punctuation and grammar and use of language is horrifying, and he uses the word &quot;her&quot; seven times in four sentences. <br />The writing used to be good, but he has been going downhill ever since Cat and Mouse. He reached a horrfying peak with 1st to Die, which was, although a brilliant novel, so cliched it got annoying. it was pageturning with a stunning plot, but the writing was so terrible. and his portrayal of a group of women was nothing less than condescnding.<br />this year, 2001, we have had three books published by Patterson. 1st to Die, Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas, and Violets Are Blue (the worst cross yet). THREE??? most authors only get through ONE a year. he has been listening far too much to the people who ask him if he can write faster. i would be much happier with one well written novel a year, than three poorly written ones. <br />they are great pageturners yes, and i will always buy the next Patterson because they are so stunning, but i would really prefer it if he didnt try to churn out so many per year. <br />this one is possibly his best one so far.	2001-11-27
1756362:US	40684262	R2QGBUBCWYSKNK	0553275852	814945983	The Monkey's Raincoat  (Elvis Cole)	Books	2	20	24	N	N	Not all that brilliant	It is not often i find an American Private eye author which i like (im English). There are very few, the only two i can think of right now being Sue Grafton and Michael Connelly.<br />I thought, after finishing The Monkey's Raincoat, that this would probably be yet another American PI novelist which i read a couple of, and get bored with. However, i was very very wrong. Robert Crais is a superb, superb writer. It is just this one book which lets him down. All the others are briliant. <br />The PI's in this novel are the main character Elvis Cole, and his detective agency partner Joe Pike. <br />It's quite clear from reading this - his first novel- that Robert Crais does have considerable potential, not just because his characters are drawn so superbly. Which they are. The lead two characters are the best PI's i have ever read. they're brilliantly interesting, especially the silent but deadly Joe Pike. I am glad i didn't just read this one, and did decide to read a couple more. <br />This book is somewhat laclustre in it's style and content. All the hallmarks of his future novels are there. Well rounded plot, well drawn cahracters, the great humour which seems to seep out of all PI novels of this day and age. <br />But there is definitely something in it that does not click in the mind of the reader. As it is a first novel, the writing isn't particularly confident, or assured. Also, you feel he was trying to pack a lot into quite a small number of pages. this, essentially, is a mafia/mob/gangster tale. It's understandable, he was young when he wrote this. He's an american, he's male. It's understadable he would like to write a book about mob related issues and mafia style morals and violence. But this novel is very much &quot;one for the boys&quot;. I can't women liking this as much as men. <br />You even get the feeling that at times Mr Crais wasn't really taking this very seriously. At times this crosses the line into piece of comedy writing. And not very good comedy. If he restricts his humour,as he does in his other books, it makes them extrememly funny. But in this one it doesn't. it's overused. <br />The plot is slightly...complicated. And boring. are the two words which comes to mind. really, a lot does happen, but none of the events are really that interesting. As a first novel, it is not really a very good one. The plot is not all that interesting, and the mix of humour and mob violence does not really work. <br />However, this book still does have Robert Crais most prolific hallmark. His furious yet subtle compassion. He has a very finely honed sense of right and wrong, and he tries to brings this out in this novel, without the reader actually noticing he is doing it. and he manages it brilliantly. This fact made me want to read more of his, otherwise i might not have continued. And i was glad i did, because from here on in it's plain sailing. ALl his other novels are much better. the humour is not so much a central part of the book, and the plots are all interesting and very readable. He goes on to tackle the topic of the mafia yet again much better in several of his other novels. (namely Indigo Slam)<br />In short, if you want to read Robert Crais, it is not really necessary that you read this. Like every good Pi novels he reintroduces the characters with each new book. So you can give this one a miss and concentrate on his other novels. Which are well worth a read.	2001-11-27
1757145:US	40684262	R1XQGFA7V6B7HG	0553801279	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superb. A Big Book in Every Way	Wow!<br />was my final thought as I read the final line of Elizabeth George's latest novel. I have never read such a long book which seemed to pass so quickly. This book, in paperback, will be about 850 pages, and to this date will be the longest book I've read (but i Am only 15, so i have a lot more opportunity to enlarge upon that figure.) The 664 pages passed (i am referring to the English edition) as if in the flicker of an eyelid. i was expecting to be busy for at least a week while reading this book. It is her largest so far, tipping the scale at a massive page number, and God knows how many words. And every moment of it was pure pleasure. It is probably one of the best book's I've read this year. <br />Elizabeth george's writing continues to astound me. Her prose is so beautiful. It's complicated, yet infinitely understandable. Her characters are all drawn superbly, they're realistic, not always likeable, yet always interesting. I for one do get tired of the constant passages concerning the lives of Lyley, Havers, and the St James's, in many of her other novels. However, in this book she backs away from them, and concentrated much more on her other characters, and is clearly making Gideon Davies the star. <br />I found this book SO hard to put down. There were twists and turns a-plenty, and her psychological perception is so astute. The fact she has a psychology Ph.D is obvious. The psychlogy is better than that of Minette Walters books. (which is something i never thought I'd come to say)<br />It was such an interesting book, on every level. The psychology of the characters was fascinating (I'll try and stop using the &quot;p&quot; word now, ive used it about five times thus far) and just that fact kept me ploughing on, waiting for more of the personal revelations. the why's, the where's, the hows, of not only the crime, but the people. <br />Her characters are as good as Tami Hoag, her the psychological (there it is again) aspects as good as Rendell, the plots as beautiful as any Walters, and the language as complex as any P.D. James. <br />The ending was great! it was so frustrating to the reader, and because of that you completely understood Gideon's reaction to what Libby has done, as it is also frustrating to him. Of course, it is not her fault. I also liked the way George still left the events which happened 20 years ago, in &quot;the bathroom&quot; as somewhat of a mystery. We don't really know what actually happened, and it is up to the reader to pick one of two solutions. <br />I found the way Gideon changed gradually throughout the book, in his opinions, beliefs, and thoughts surrounding everthing. And it was very well done how he slowly came to believe so much in what he was doing, and the fact that the thing which Dr Rose has prescribed him to do, IS actually helping him, so he perceveres willingly. <br />Although George is an American, she does capture England quite well(I am from england, os have a pretty good idea). Although she does centre very heavily on either the upper class, or lower class. Also, the things she has us doing are quite stereotypical. There are a couple of errors about culture/tradition, but they can't possibly spoil the enjoyment of this great novel, nro do they really matter. I doubt most people even notice them. Unless i knew she wasnt an Anglophile, i would probably not be able to tell. <br />I cannot wait for her next book. The long wait will be agonising.<br />In short, this is a superb book. If you like psychology this is most certainly book of the year for you. <br />Buy it now. <br />Now.<br />Go on, what are you still reading this for?<br />Buy it NOW.	2001-11-26
1757696:US	40684262	R2AM0CUWF0D602	0553801279	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Superb. A Big Book in Every Way	Wow!<br />was my final thought as I read the final line of Elizabeth George's latest novel. I have never read such a long book which seemed to pass so quickly. This book, in paperback, will be about 850 pages, and to this date will be the longest book I've read (but i Am only 15, so i have a lot more opportunity to enlarge upon that figure.) The 664 pages passed (i am referring to the English edition) as if in the flicker of an eyelid. i was expecting to be busy for at least a week while reading this book. It is her largest so far, tipping the scale at a massive page number, and God knows how many words. And every moment of it was pure pleasure. It is probably one of the best book's I've read this year. <br />Elizabeth george's writing continues to astound me. Her prose is so beautiful. It's complicated, yet infinitely understandable. Her characters are all drawn superbly, they're realistic, not always likeable, yet always interesting. I for one do get tired of the constant passages concerning the lives of Lyley, Havers, and the St James's, in many of her other novels. However, in this book she backs away from them, and concentrated much more on her other characters, and is clearly making Gideon Davies the star. <br />I found this book SO hard to put down. There were twists and turns a-plenty, and her psychological perception is so astute. The fact she has a psychology Ph.D is obvious. The psychlogy is better than that of Minette Walters books. (which is something i never thought I'd come to say)<br />It was such an interesting book, on every level. The psychology of the characters was fascinating (I'll try and stop using the &quot;p&quot; word now, ive used it about five times thus far) and just that fact kept me ploughing on, waiting for more of the personal revelations. the why's, the where's, the hows, of not only the crime, but the people. <br />Her characters are as good as Tami Hoag, her the psychological (there it is again) aspects as good as Rendell, the plots as beautiful as any Walters, and the language as complex as any P.D. James. <br />The ending was great! it was so frustrating to the reader, and because of that you completely understood Gideon's reaction to what Libby has done, as it is also frustrating to him. Of course, it is not her fault. I also liked the way George still left the events which happened 20 years ago, in &quot;the bathroom&quot; as somewhat of a mystery. We don't really know what actually happened, and it is up to the reader to pick one of two solutions. <br />I found the way Gideon changed gradually throughout the book, in his opinions, beliefs, and thoughts surrounding everthing. And it was very well done how he slowly came to believe so much in what he was doing, and the fact that the thing which Dr Rose has prescribed him to do, IS actually helping him, so he perceveres willingly. <br />Although George is an American, she does capture England quite well(I am from england, os have a pretty good idea). Although she does centre very heavily on either the upper class, or lower class. Also, the things she has us doing are quite stereotypical. There are a couple of errors about culture/tradition, but they can't possibly spoil the enjoyment of this great novel, nro do they really matter. I doubt most people even notice them. Unless i knew she wasnt an Anglophile, i would probably not be able to tell. <br />I cannot wait for her next book. The long wait will be agonising.<br />In short, this is a superb book. If you like psychology this is most certainly book of the year for you. <br />Buy it now. <br />Now.<br />Go on, what are you still reading this for?<br />Buy it NOW.	2001-11-26
1757760:US	40684262	R1VWGEO4Z5P0FH	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	N	My first. By no means my last.	In times gone by i have been put off reading Stephen King by the fact that he writes \\"horror\\" novels. But my friend read this book and reccomended it to me. I told him about the fact i don't generally like horror, and he assured me that i would like it, wether i like horror or not.<br />He was right.<br />This book is nothing short of a masterpiece. I find it hard to believe King could ever have surpassed this, yet i will now gleefully read through all his others novels to see whether this is in fact his best. If it not, the others must b brilliant!<br />I do not ever find books scary. this one is no exception. Words never have the power to frighten me. A film can, but a book never. But although i didn't find it scary, it was certainly creepy! especially the last hundred pages.<br />I have deicded that i definitely like Kingsd \\"write as you would speak it\\" style. The language he uses is quite simple, which makes the books really easy to read, even when the plot should deem it hard-going.<br />As i have been now made aware, all of Kings books seem to have a writer in them, somewhere. This one is no exception, and the writer in this book is fascinating. King has drawn him...although not in great depth, certainly very well. He's a very likeable man, and you feel a great deal of sympathy for him when these horrible things begin to inexplicably happen.<br />King unfolds his story skein by skein, right from the sepllbinding beginning.<br />(...)<br />The villains in this book are SO bad! i was astounded. how can anyone be so evil? you feel no sympathy at al for the villain, and i found myself smiling when he died. if this book were a movie, (as it is soon to be, i believe) the audience would probably have cheered.<br />which brings me to the ending.<br />the ending is haunting. literally. and it is brilliant. it is gory and horrific, yet you cannot tear your eyes from the page. but again, Stephen Kings rips your emotions apart. (...)<br />this is a great book, a wonderful romance, which will no doubt draw out a tear from even the most hard-hearted reader.<br />this book is a masterpiece, it twists, it turns, it leaves you emotionally drained and weak.<br />(...)wonderful romance, which will no doubt draw out a tear from even the most hard-hearted reader. <br />this book is a masterpiece, it twists, it turns, it leaves you emotionally drained and weak.<br />(...)	2001-11-26
1786868:US	40684262	R2U6X81LCX7PMS	0380718340	197409417	Cruel & Unusual (Kay Scarpetta Mysteries)	Books	2	18	19	N	N	One bad egg is forgiveable	This is the worst of the Scarpetta series. which is quite an achievement seeing as all the others are brilliant. My favourites being the claustrophobic &quot;The Body Farm&quot;, and the superbly dark &quot;Point of Origin&quot;. I have loved all the Scarpetta's, and read them at least twice over, and i still think this is the worst. <br />The plot was very complicated, and it all seemed a bit of a mess. The characters were nothing special, and i this is the only book in which Cornwell manage to bore me with her normally insightful computer terminology. It's too long, and basically i dont think it has any substance. There is a great potential. The idea for the plot is superb, and could well have been one of the best, but somewhere along the line it all slips. I cant put my finger on it, but i just didnt come away from this with the satisfaction i normally get out of a Kay Scarpetta book. <br />Nevertheless this is still a necessary book to read if you intend to read the entire series. It is one of the major turning points. The first book to feature Temple Gault, who would later lead to Carrie Grethen, Newton Joyce, and all the other catastrophic events which culminate in the next turning point of &quot;The Last Precint&quot;. each one has signalled a new era for Patricia Cornwell, and each one has not been quite as good as the others. But The Last Precint was still much better than this. It is, admittedly, very clever, but far too complicated, and im surprised it got the CWA's gold dagger. <br />nevertheless, i have given it two stars purely because it is such a major point in Scarpetta's life. You must read it if you intend to read the entire series, but dont expect to enjoy it as much as you do the others.	2001-11-02
