165828:US	41012519	R1VBM2EQBMOQFN	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Odd Couple	I picked this book up and the first question I had was just how is the author going to combine the story of the building of the World's Fair location and a serial killer.  These two seemed to me to have almost nothing in common and I half assumed that the combination would be ham handed at best.  Yet the author made these two stories weave together so well that I can not even think that one could be told without the other to the same exciting effect.   <br /> <br />One of the nice surprises of the book was just how well the author described the environment of the late 19th century.  You could hear the street sounds and new just what the placed looked like from the rich descriptions the author provides.  The story of the massive job of constructing the World's Fair sight is the lead story of the book.  The energy and drive shown by the lead architect was inspiring.  So much positive energy it made the dark side of the book, the serial killer, all that more dark.  Overall I really enjoyed the book.  It moved at a wonderful pace and my only regret is that I did not read it sooner.    <br />	2005-07-14
166391:US	41012519	R2JQXGA9YEV7D7	140009741X	400919445	They Just Don't Get It: How Washington Is Still Compromising Your Safety--and What You Can Do About It	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A Drill Sergeant For The Public	If you love a book that comes out of the gate swinging then this is the book for you.  If you have ever seen this author on FOX News you know that he is brash and straight forward.   Well take his TV personality and magnify it by ten times, he takes the gloves off and lets the fur fly.  Lets just start by saying that he is not a fan of government bureaucracy or just about any \\"soft\\" rules that get in the way of the American military (the good guys) pounding anyone who looks like, acts like or has even thought about being a terrorist.   <br /> <br />He kept throwing examples at us of one messed up situation after another where some been counter stopped a significant action because of rules written in peace time aimed at protecting tree huggers instead of the average Joe American from crazy terrorists that are out to get us all.  The author wants you to get that mad close to rage feeling so many of us had after the 9/11 attacks.  He believes that only this type of energy and dodged determination will lead us to safety.   The book is a great read that gets your blood pumping.   Get the book now and get outraged.	2005-07-14
167334:US	41012519	R5FX153CEPUS0	0131497855	732643767	Options Trading for the Conservative Investor: Increasing Profits Without Increasing Your Risk	Books	5	20	22	N	N	You Need An Open Mind	It is rare that you hear the words options and conservative in the same sentence so most readers probably turn their eye brows up at this books title.  The author believes that there is a way for the risk adverse investor to use a strategy to trade a narrow band of options and beat asset classes averages.  His argument is that some conservative investors are investors that are open to expanding beyond the Dow and CD's yet are still going to make sure that they examine the risks and make sure that they are acceptable.   <br /> <br />We have all heard that high risk means the potential for high return.  The problem is the high risk part.  The author claims that by increasing your knowledge you can limit the risk and leave the majority of the losses to the inexperienced and uninformed.  This book gives the reader a limited number of strategies appropriate for conservative investors that are looking to limit risk while expanding investment choices.  Overall the book was well written and easy to understand.   I do not know if I am going to jump into options trading, but if you are looking at new investment options, this author explains this asset class and gives the reader a nice set of strategies.	2005-07-13
167593:US	41012519	RI78DLKMUO48E	0060584696	61540947	Perfect Soldiers: The 9/11 Hijackers: Who They Were, Why They Did It	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Amateur Terrorists	I have had the view that the 9/11 highjackers were a bunch of militants, trained in Afghanistan camps and raised in ultra strict Muslim families.  This narrow and simplistic view on my part has been somewhat comforting, after all it took a number of factors and many years of indoctrination for these folks to calmly take their lives and the lives of thousands of incidents.  I say comforting because just how many of these guys can there be?  Unfortunately this book details that the men involved in the 9/11 attacks were primarily bored, unemployed and living in societies with significant economic problems.  They just happened to chose a course that lead them into performing the worst terrorist attacks ever.   This is concern because as the author points out , there are millions more young men in the same position that can only turn to religion for comfort and need a enemy to hate. <br /> <br />This book gives the reader a very interesting view of some of the 9/11 highjackers.  The author writes in a way that is as captivating as a fiction book.  He makes even the most normal run down of facts interesting.  It helps that the ultimate event has so much drama surrounding it.  Overall I enjoyed the book.  It is full of facts presented without a lot of over the top reasoning about how these people hate us because of our freedom.  It is an eye opener and if you are interested in the war on terror or the 9/11 attacks I think you will find the book well worth the time.	2005-07-13
168693:US	41012519	R3L2UARRQ7ZZK6	1592285945	158945373	In Peril: A Daring Decision, a Captain's Resolve, and the Salvage that Made History	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Bit Dangerous	I love books like this, any adventure against good old mother nature with a significant amount of danger and big machines tossed in for effect.  That is why I thought I would love this book.  I did enjoy it and I found that I learned a great deal about everything from the NASA Space Shuttle to oil tanker operations.  I also got a good dose of what it is like to be in the merchant marine.  The issue I had with the book is that I did not think it lived up to the description on the dust jacket.  I thought there would be far more \\"seconds away from death\\" type adventure.     <br /> <br />The book covers the three days period of time when an oil tanker came to the rescue of a tug boat pulling an external fuel tank for the shuttle during a topical storm.  Sure it sounds like an odd bunch of vehicles, but that adds to the charm of the story.  That sounds like some excitement and to be fair the book did have a good amount, but perfect storm it was not.  I just thought that outside of a large monetary loss, the outcome of the rescue had it not worked would have been only property damage to one specialized gas tank.  I was just expecting and I guess looking for more excitement.  To give the book credit though it was interesting and had exciting parts.  It just was not a top tier nail biter type book.	2005-07-12
169032:US	41012519	R1961MI0974MI	0131423983	726938443	Finding Fertile Ground: Identifying Extraordinary Opportunities for New Ventures	Books	5	57	57	N	N	Time To Make The Doughnuts	Well if you have the guts to start a new business then this author makes the case that high tech is the field to be in.  Forget fast food franchises, dry cleaners or video stores, the more knowledge intensive the better.  To back this claim up the author gives you the highlights of the last 20 years in America and points to facts that would lead one to believe the economy is doing very well thank you.  To put some reality into the conversation he does detail out the very difficult task it is to start a business and make it successful, as a matter of fact the odds are so long it would convince all but the most confident to stay put in the 9 to 5 grind.   <br /> <br />So the author tries to identify the keys to what makes people successful entrepreneurs.    He helps the reader determine the right business concept to exploit within the high tech arena.  Even though he details out that it is a very tough road to make a successful business, he gives the reader enough sound advice and basic business strategy that it makes even a cautious fellow like myself believe I could do it.  Overall I found the book interesting and easy to read.  I am a bit too much of a doubting Thomas to try it myself, but if you are looking to venture out on your own I think this book would pay for itself many times over.	2005-07-12
169156:US	41012519	R2UU7LQWOI7D3	1400060842	809349937	Under and Alone: The True Story of the Undercover Agent Who Infiltrated America's Most Violent Outlaw Motorcycle Gang	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Where's That Fonda Guy With The Funny Hat?	I did not even know that motor cycle gangs made it out of the 70's.  Don't these guys know that to be cool on a bike you need to be 50, have a white color job and spend more time on skin moisturizing then drug procurement. Anyway this is one heck of a book.  It is not because the author does such a good job, to be fair he many have the bravery of ten men but he has some difficulty in the written word.  This small quibble aside, this was a good old fashion page turner.  The exploits he describes in the book are worthy of a Hollywood rendering.   <br /> <br />The one thing I did wonder about was how did he not engage is some unlawful or maybe just sorta unlawful acts.  I mean how can you be taken seriously by a bunch of hard core criminals and not partake in some of the action.   Outside of this, I just could not put the book down.  The life that is detailed is one that I completely did not think existed today in the U.S.A, how does this type of criminal gang go around without more public attention? If you are interested in non fiction or true crime then you will just love this book.   Go ahead and make his day.	2005-07-12
182595:US	41012519	R8BXT888ZF4M6	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent and Dramatic	I have read a number of book on the events of September 11th and specifically the events at the World Trade Center.  This is undoubtedly the best that I have read for shear drama. I do not know if I will ever feel the way I did that day, the shock, vulnerability, fear and sadness were unique to that period of time.  I think the closest I have come to reliving those emotions from a book has to have been from this effort.  I just can not say enough good about this book.  I incorrectly assumed it was just going to be a bunch of 911 transcripts and voice message recordings from people trapped in the towers.  Instead the authors have pieced together a magnificent historical record of what happened that day in the towers.<br /><br />The most surprising bits of information in the book were just how high in the tower the fire department made it before the collapse, how many regular citizens where hero's and just how many people died due to either false information or doubting the correct information being given to them.  Overall I could not put the book down.  It was exciting, gripping and sad all at the same time.  You will not be disappointed at all in this book.  About the only thing that might raise an eyebrow would be the few blunt words on the fire department personal toward the end of the book.	2005-07-02
182597:US	41012519	R1R0SA4CCGG0X9	0060558288	261484893	God's Politics: Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Gets You To Think	How many times have you heard that you should never interject religion or politics in a casual conversation because it is a good chance someone with get offended?  What happens when you combine both of them? This author has seen far too much of religion being used by current day politicians so he decided to write a book about it.  I came to the book with a moderate to left leaning political view and assumed that the book was going to point and pick at the current day Republican party given their rather one track fixation on Christen beliefs.   What surprised me was that the author took on all and every political party.  He found discrepancies and inaccurate interpretations every where he looked.        The main theme is that Jesus did not belong to a political party and to hold out that this party or the other is the party of God is a sham.  The author points out policies and platforms that fly in the face of Christen beliefs.  I can not say that I agreed with many of the authors views on the subject, and given I am somewhat of a political junky I was taken aback by some of the high level coverage that certain issues received.  Yet the main point of the book and his writing on it are well worth an open minded reading.  He brings up very good points that would make us all take a step back and rethink our positions.  He leaves the reader wondering if we all are using religion as cover to make us see past the many morally questionable actions of our political parties.  Overall I found the book very interesting and one that will get you thinking.	2005-07-02
182774:US	41012519	R116Y219TBBMV0	0815771983	661884280	The Plane Truth: Airline Crashes, the Media, and Transportation Policy	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Did You Pack Your Own Bags	I have never been able to explain why I am so interested in aircraft accidents.  Whatever the reason, I have read a fair number of books describing both accidents and investigations and this is the first book I have ever come across that takes a look at the effect of high profile accidents on the rules around the airline industry.  To be fair, this book does not pack the dramatic punch of a book that is covering just an accident.  It does do a good job of looking at accidents and their effect on public policy.   <br /> <br />The findings of the authors were a bit surprising for me given that they show that most of what is done in the way of new regulations is reactionary and limited in effectiveness.  I guess it should not be a surprise that politicians would gravitate to high profile events and then try to capture some votes via mindless grandstanding and marginally effect legislation.   Overall I found the book interesting and somewhat eye opening.  It paints a rather negative view of the FAA, which I had not seen is such a blunt fashion before.  It is a bit dry in spots and the authors found it difficult to keep sections detailing government regulation moving at a good pace.  If you are interested in the aircraft industry then I think you will find this book enjoyable.	2005-07-02
183273:US	41012519	R32BMQ7AD4BQ2Z	0060838574	229727476	Blood Brother: 33 Reasons My Brother Scott Peterson Is Guilty	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The New Math	As I was walking out of the book store with this copy under my arm I was feeling a bit embarrassed.  As if I had not seen and heard enough about this case on the TV I decided to part with my money to read more.  Well it was from his sister so I thought there could be some interesting bits and I admit it, I was interested in case the minute a talking head breathlessly starting taking about the missing pregnant lady in California.  I do not know what exactly I thought I was going to find in the book that was not already splashed all over the TV and it turns out that there really was not much new in the book that could be considered exciting.  It was basically just this gals story and her interactions with Scott Peterson over the last two - three years before he was convicted.    As for the 33 reasons I found myself guffawing and rolling my eyes at about 75% of them.  Some of them were so ham handed and over done that you would have thought Tonight Show writers had added a few to the mix for humor.  Add in the fact that the editor or publisher should have used a far heaver hand with the book due to the inexperience and down right poor skills of the author, you get a book that has a very short life span once the memory of this event fades from the short term memory banks.  The good news is that this had to have been the largest font I have ever seen in a book, they could barley get 20 words per page.  I assumed all in an effort to increase this gossip / money grab story to book length.      Overall I thought the book was poorly written and almost bordering on libal, yet I still enjoyed it.  Think of the book as this weeks addition of a gossip tabloid and that about hits in on the head. The book is just like fast food - quick, easy and tasty, but not really good for you.  It should just about give you the Peterson case OD you need to move on to the next made for TV drama.	2005-07-02
183609:US	41012519	R20ZUCNBR3I7OL	184195652X	180454349	Beauty Tips from Moose Jaw: Travels in Search of Canada	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Exactly What Does Eh Mean?	I have lived outside of the U.S. for six years with the past two in Canada thus I had about the right amount of distance from everyday life in the U.S. and enough daily interaction in Canada to find this book hilarious.  Page after page I keep laughing out loud.  I kept finding my self blurting out things like \\"exactly\\" and \\"I have seen that too\\".  This author has nailed the North American male and has a very clear view of the differences between the States and Canada.  If you are a resident of either country you will find this book full of humor and uncanny observations that ring true to anyone with an eye to individual behavior.  I would have no hesitation in recommending the book.	2005-07-02
196420:US	41012519	R15HKBBHHX2WT4	0131423304	10810867	The Enthusiastic Employee: How Companies Profit by Giving Workers What They Want	Books	5	51	51	N	N	How Satisfied Are You?	You get more flies with honey then vinegar, this simple concept just about sums up this book.  The truly motivated employee is one that wants to be at work and perform, what environmental factors that make a person what to be at work is in large part the responsibility of management  This is the claim of this book by the authors.  How many of us spend most of our people time working on the disgruntled under performer.  We then find that the rest of the staff are ignored because the \\"real work\\" needs to get done, so full steam ahead and get out of the way or get run over.  The authors claim this is exactly what kills morale, managers focusing on black and white issues and just assuming the staff will follow, even managers who themselves are disenchanted with the work place they are in.   <br /> <br />The authors detail out how they have come up with the advice they are dispensing in the book and then they sit you down for a class on improving the work place in relation to employee relations and morale.  It all came off as so basic yet when the everyday pressures of the work place get too much the common sense of fair and equitable treatment tends to go out the window.  The authors give the reader a number of techniques to help with employee morale and thus performance.  These items alone make this book a must read.  Overall I found the book to be very interesting and easy to read.  The authors give you valuable information that will make you a better manager.  This book should be given to every new manager in any company.	2005-06-21
198586:US	41012519	R1G48ZLIG5AJCX	067166834X	595058146	The Korean War	Books	5	36	43	N	N	Lost In History	It has always been a bit surprising to me that of the war's America has been involved in over the last century, it seems that the Korean War has always gotten so little attention.  After all, two superpowers met in battle, it was the communists against us in a very hot war.  Nuclear war was a very real possibility and the violence of the conflict was far higher then any other conflict except World War Two.  We were responding to an invasion of a free and democratic country.  Yet it gets little to no mention in our history books and public discourse.   <br /> <br />There are a lot of very interesting and one would say dramatic military events that took place in this war.  The brutal winter losses at Chosin, the Inchon landing, the drive to Yalu, all of which are recounted in the book in a very engaging way.  Not only does the author give you the facts and overview of the battles, but he also does a good job at retelling the stories of the common soldier.  He seemed to have talked to people on all sides of the conflict in order to gain a unique view into what it was like for them as well as us.  Overall I enjoyed the book.   It gave me a very easy to read overview of the war.  He covered big picture items well and really got into the battle details to make the book exciting at times.	2005-06-19
198688:US	41012519	R2YMN3CZ4STAEF	0976011107	163653399	Look Mom! I Built My Own Web Site	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Friendly And Useful	I must admit that before reading this book I did not view building a web site as a early teenager activity.  Never having done this type of activity, I incorrectly assumed that this was a process that was as difficult as say building a microwave oven from scratch.   After reading the book I have revised my view of the process and understand that I was not giving kids enough credit.  The book is geared toward kids with some help from parents, creating a basic web site.  It gives the read a nice step by step process that is not intimidating.  The authors did a good job of helping the reader not get lost in a blizzard of tech heavy terminology. <br /> <br />I think the biggest advantage of the book is that fact that it makes it easy for the parent to understand.  Lets face it, kids are far more quick to pick up on this computer stuff and the book also helps the adults understand what they are doing. Overall I enjoyed the book.  It is easy to read, it has a nice format and layout.  It is easy to follow and I found that there were enough pictures which made for a clearer understanding.  The authors even put the book out in a format that makes it easy to have it lay open on a desk so that you are not constantly having to open the book and locate your page after it accidentally closed.	2005-06-19
198875:US	41012519	R1ZCER3V22HWGB	0805014624	163556744	Auschwitz and the Allies: A Devastating Account of How the Allies Responded to the News of Hitler's Mass Murder (An Owl Book)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not A Unique Story	Looking into history is one of the areas that we can almost always fell we have found an absolute truth.  Even if some of the facts remain hidden or just plain unknown, major events have so many other markers and road maps that historians can find the truth, even if it is narrow in scope.  The truth presented in this book is that the Allies knew that Hitler's Germany was engaged in mass killings of different ethnic groups with Jews being number one on the hit list.  The author spends a good deal of time detailing out his research that shows that this fact was even in the public press.  What is not detailed to any great degree was what decisions lead the leaders of the Allies to prosecute the war in the manner they did.  Why were these atrocities ignored or not acted on?   <br /> <br />The author did not fully investigate this question, and to be fair it would probably be difficult given the decisions made here were by a very few people and not verbalized. The book is interesting and details a good number of facts on the topic.  I did seem to pick up on a seemingly anti non Jewish bias in the book.  The author examines the Allies ignoring of the mass killings, but does not try to explain what could have actually been done to stop them.  Looking at the full picture of the war, there was not an easy fix for this problem if one at all.  Even if air power resources would have been diverted to camps, there were many that the overall war effort would have been negatively effected.   How much longer would have the overall war gone on and how many more people would have died?   Even if the Allies had stopped the camps, there were still killing squads that were activity in the country side that killed almost two million people.  Nothing short of a full victory would have stopped this activity. <br /> <br />Overall I found the book interesting but limited.  If you are just coming to this discussion, this book gives the reader a nice overview of the \\"Allies Knew\\" field of study, but what it does not do is present the story with all the facts about the Allies position in the war.   It also seems a bit self severing that the author seems to only care about this one section of the European population that was dieing when countless millions more died at the hands of Hitler and Stalin.  This was a horrific period in our collective history and I hope that the end effect of this and other books like it, help to keep in focus our responsibility on stopping these atrocities in the future regardless of if they are Europeans, Africans or Asians that are being killed.	2005-06-19
198987:US	41012519	R1LP760GI8FTQM	0671430343	616987268	Portrait of an Election:  The 1980 Presidential Campaign	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Start Of The Revolution	I have a soft spot for this author, I have read a number of her books and I find that she has the ability to describe a presidential campaign like no other author I have read.  This book takes a look at the 1980 campaign between then president Jimmy Carter and challenger Ronald Reagan.  She does a wonderful job of describing not only the campaign actions, but how they fit into the overall larger picture of what was happening in America and the world at that time.  She also got her hands on a number of strategy memorandums from both the Carter and Reagan campaigns.  They add an very rich and somewhat dramatic look at what was happening within each camp.   <br /> <br />One of the value of this type of book is that the strategies, although fitting the circumstances at the time, seem to be the same through the years.  If you read and understand what happen in the past it will help you see through so many of the games that are played on the average voter each election.  I also found that the overall campaign was far closer then most of us remember.  In reading the book I also thought Carter might have pulled it off if Iran would have released the hostages.  Overall I found the book very interesting and entertaining.  It probably only appeals to a small group of people at this time, but if you are interested in the election that started the Reagan revolution then this is a great place to start	2005-06-19
198989:US	41012519	R3JK46MUD3MOO	1400053684	336770599	Countdown to Crisis: The Coming Nuclear Showdown with Iran	Books	5	99	126	N	N	A Persian Carpet Of Lies	It seems that the current non fiction environment lends its self to high drama works that, regardless of subject manner, all lead in the direction that the issue covered in the book is the most import of issue to be dealt with over the next so many years.  This author also has a history of putting out books that seem to have a rather close relationship to the conservative issue of the day.  So given this was my bias coming into this book you would think I would have nothing but negative comments, I assumed the same.  The fact is the book is an enjoyable and interesting read.  The author details out the growing issue that another Middle Eastern country is working to gain a nuclear weapon and what it might mean to us.   <br /> <br />As much as it might pain me to say this, I agree with many of the authors claims.  There is no other country today that has so openly and brazenly supported terror in the Middle East.  Iran is a country that is working to gain more influence in the Middle East with hopes of becoming the leader of a Soviet Union style dictatorship over the Middle East to bring back the glory of the great Persian empire of the past.  The leaders of the country are pursing a goal of the total destruction of Israel and a subjugation of the rest of us.  The book talks abut the many missed opportunities and missteps that have lead us to this point and gives the reasons why we are going to be dealing with them in an adversarial relationship for many years to come.   <br /> <br />Overall I really enjoyed the book.   All over hype and drama aside, the author details out a threat to us as Americans if for no other reason then Iran is a country focused on objectives that a detrimental to our own and they happen to be in the most sensitive location on the planet today.  I had to put aside my bias toward the author and in doing so I came away the better.	2005-06-19
199255:US	41012519	RAW2B270258OL	013146759X	140460062	50 Ways to Protect Your Identity and Your Credit: Everything You Need to Know About Identity Theft, Credit Cards, Credit Repair, and Credit Reports	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Home Security System	This is not the feel good book of the summer, it almost scares the pants off of you given the many different ways faceless criminals can rudely interrupt your life with identity theft.   This book details out many of the identity theft scams that are prevalent today.  It shows you, maybe in a way that is a touch over the top, just how vulnerable you are.  On the positive side it also gives you the tools to fight back and the steps you can take to protect yourself.  It also instructs you on what you can do if you become an identity theft victim.  The book details out how the world of credit operates and your rights and responsibilities.   <br /> <br />The current world we live in enables us to be discriminated against in the credit world because of our age, gender or marital status.  The privacy of our financial information may be compromised and is so widely disseminated that it is making it more and more vulnerable to identity theft all the time.  That is why this book is important, it gives the reader some tools to help us remain safe or at least less vulnerable.  Overall the author gives the reader a number of useful and well described tips for how to keep as safe as possible and how to fix problems if they come up. It is a bit on the dramatic side, but if you are a victim of this type of crime then the descriptions are probably right on the mark.	2005-06-19
199276:US	41012519	RRA6LAQGB844R	0131497340	784239479	No Such Thing as Over-Exposure: Inside the Life and Celebrity of Donald Trump	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Showman, Showoff Or Sage?	If you are interested in the business world or not, there has been no other business leader consistently in the news more then Donald Trump over the last 20 years.  If you think he is an attention starved ego driven showman or just a smart business leader in the right place at the right time, the fact is you have an opinion of him.  Few other business leaders share his celebrity.  It is this celebrity that prompted me to pick up this book for no other reason then to see what all the fuss was about.  As a bit of a perspective to this review I have not watched one episode of his TV show and I have always felt that his biggest skill was an uncanny knack for finding television cameras.  If you mentioned Trump to me the only thing I would think was oversized ego.     <br /> <br />So I needed a lot of convincing to be done to move my view of Trump into more of a positive light.  This author did make me rethink my position, but unlike the subject of the book and his in your face M1A1 tank approach to image, the author laid out facts and present his story with limited bias.  The author does cover some history, but the area I found most interesting was the focus on the current Trump activities.  The one thing I came away with is that you have it hand it to him, he is driving to have his business empire catch up to his ego.  Overall I enjoyed the book.   This is the first book on Trump I have read in a long time so there was an element of freshness to the subject.  I also found that either the author had an engaging method of writing or the subject mater was just so interesting that I kept moving from page to page excitedly.	2005-06-19
205918:US	41012519	R5QAIEW9GB88Z	047173876X	987472406	Twilight in the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock and the World Economy	Books	5	128	138	N	N	What If The Pumps Run Dry	The basis of this book is fear, not unwanted fear spread by the author, but it is the emotion you start to feel as you move through the book page by page.  For good or bad the U.S. and the world have become reliant on one natural resource that is controlled by a very few countries and people.  This fact alone should have most of us concerned, 60% of the oil we use each day is controlled by a bunch of countries that are primarily dictatorships surrounded by people that would sooner burn the oil in mass dumping grounds instead of selling it to us regardless of the price.  We have become backed into a corner and it appears that our only response so far as been to flex our power. <br /> <br />What will happen if the oil fields in Saudi can not keep up with demand?  What if the production facilities are almost overmatched at this point and further facilities are difficult to put in place?   All of these and more questions are covered in this book.  The author also talks about the populations and political situation in Saudi and the picture he presents is another difficult and concerning one at that.  One can only hope that the production in Iraq gets up and running or that better technology is hurried into production.   <br /> <br />The footnotes and documented sources detailed in the book give it the appearance of a very well documented and accurate study.  The details on the production process in Saudi is worth the price of the book alone.  It is a rather back handed slight at our news media that the very real issues presented in this book have not yet made it to the talking heads at 6 pm.  Overall I enjoyed the book a great detail.  It is well written and put together.  The reader is never lost in the detail no matter how little previous knowledge the reader has about the oil business.  What I found was that the good was a very fast read given that it is difficult to put it down.  It is a book that we all need to read.	2005-06-13
206707:US	41012519	R3S16NYCCQE92B	0273630490	479685213	Logistics and Supply Chain Management (2nd Edition) (Financial Times Management)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	I Need It Yesterday	At first glance this is a book that is going to scare off the vast number of readers.  Unless you are in this field or this is part of your daily job, why would you read this book.   I submit that most managers today need to have a basic understanding of this process, which is why I read this book.  Overall I came to the book with no real understanding of the topic nor had I ever read a book along these lines before.  I found the book to be a nice and understandable overview of the topic.  I did find it to be a bit more detailed then I was looking for, but I understand that the book was not necessarily meant for a reader such as myself. <br /> <br />I think what interested me most was that I used to think of this topic as just a line of trucks coming into the plant so to speak.  The book brings out that supply chains are really complex networks with many moving parts.  Due to the increased out sourcing and off shoring, the complexity of these chains has grown.  With this complexity comes even more of a need for pro-active coordination within the network.  This is the reason the book and concepts are important.  Overall I enjoyed the book.  Sure it had more detail then I wanted, but I assume that a seasoned professional in this line of work needs that detail.  I also found the book to be, at times, a bit dry, but I attribute this to my lack of real depth in the area.  If you are looking for something in this subject I think this is a good starting point.	2005-06-12
206766:US	41012519	RUELLD5MUHXPT	0465006426	914557493	The Graves Are Not Yet Full: Race, Tribe and Power in the Heart of America	Books	4	6	9	N	N	The Cold And Dark Continent	There is no escaping the seemingly overwhelming amount of evil and suffering that has gone on over the last century in Africa.  Although it is not usually displayed on our nightly news casts, the continent has been in a state of near to constant warfare, criminal control and colonial game playing for far too long.  This author attempts to give the reader somewhat of an overview of the situation and his views as to why it has and continues to take place.  From plagues to genocide, Africa seems to have a monopoly on some of the worst that can befall man. <br /> <br />So how did the author approach the topic.  It was interesting to me that he focused so much on the effect, both due to supposed active participation and more broadly due to ignoring the place, the U.S. has had there.  I am not one who thinks of the past episodes of American foreign policy as all light and good, but if there is one part of the world that the U.S. has had the smallest effect on it has to be Africa.  Just about every European country shy of the Vatican has spent time colonizing, \\"liberating\\" and in general messing around with governments and populations in Africa.  If there needs to be a hard look at who should be getting most of the blame I think we need to spend a bit more time exploring our friends in Europe. <br /> <br />With this point said the book is dramatic.  It is well written and many times interesting.  Keeping the authors politics and biases aside, he does cover some truly horrible conditions that would make all but the most hard hearted individual think that we can do more to help.  If you are looking for a book that would get you into the history of the problems in Africa then this is not that bad of a place to start even if the scope is a bit limited.	2005-06-12
207617:US	41012519	R389KYKX2ZTVH6	1564741028	533644695	GREAT LIMBAUGH CON	Books	2	16	31	N	N	An Assault On The Reader	I am not a big fan of Rush Limbaugh, I would even admit to somewhat disliking the man.  I also tend to fall to more of the moderate side of the political isle.  So you would think that I would have really liked this book, unfortunately for me I did not.  I am all for going after the many misstatements that Rush makes and his very far right wing view of the world.  I would have even enjoyed a bit of grief given to the conservative section of the Republican party, but this book went way beyond what I wanted to read.  The author started out taking on the items are mentioned above, it was just that the author used this as a starting point.  He went after everything to the right of full blown socialism.  <br /> <br />As I read I kept thinking what in the world is this guy thinking.  He has an issue with about everything that is remotely associated with the Republican party.  He was mad at business owners having the ability to move their businesses around the U.S., he does not like any kind of anti union activity and he is aghast that anyone might be opposed to government control of all aspects of the community.  Overall the author takes the opportunity of this book to beat up on everything slightly red.  The venom kept increasing through the book to the point that you feel like the author is standing up in front of you yelling.   <br /> <br />Overall the book was far too negative for me.  The author has a huge chip on his shoulder and he is going to let the world know about it.  I was looking for a funny and campy book that took as many shots at Rush about his politics as it did about his waistline.  If you are a hard core hater of all things Republican then you will probably enjoy the book.   If you are looking for anything a bit less over the top then keep looking.	2005-06-11
207763:US	41012519	R32MX2JG5HAT60	0131439871	527607379	Capitalism at the Crossroads: The Unlimited Business Opportunities in Solving the World's Most Difficult Problems	Books	5	65	66	N	N	The World Is Your Oyster	Is the business sector more then just a entity that creates products and jobs?  The author of this book believes that the corporate sector can be the catalyst for a force of global development.  The author argues that there is no conflict between making the world a better place and make a profit.  He does believe that business leaders need to maintain a principled commitment to civic responsibility, for if nothing else then to keep your company out of the spot light of issues that could arise from actions that are less then ethical. <br /> <br />The author presents a book that gives the reader a scenario in which business can generate growth and satisfy social and environmental concerns.  Given the 4 billion people that live in the third world, the author believes there is an unbelievably large and hungry market for all that business can bring.  Business owners can reap incredible growth while sowing tremendous improvement in people's lives.   <br /> <br />It does sound like a win win situation that is believable in its scope.  Overall I enjoyed the book.  It was well written and informative.  The author might be called an optimist to the extreme, but it is the dreamer that makes big change happen.  The book is a fast read that is well worth your time.	2005-06-11
208024:US	41012519	R3FORUOSCRVOZ5	0374236631	386866765	Power and Principle: Memoirs of the National Security Adviser, 1977-1981	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Measured And Bland	The author was President Jimmy Carter's Assistant for National Security Affairs during his administration, which would lead one to believe that the book would be an interesting read.  If there was one area that was interesting during the Carter years it was the foreign relations aspects of his administration so the author was in a unique position as far as exciting book writing is concerned.  The author also is a man known to have a bit of n ego, thus I assumed the book would be a bit of a slash and burn tell all.  To my surprise the author is a rather timid memoir writer, he did not go after anyone in the book.    <br /> <br />The author claims and is probably truthful in that it was he who shaped the security policy of the U.S. during the Carter years.  This book is a detailed account of his experiences in office.  By detailed I mean that about the only thing the author left out was bathroom break times and lunch menu's.  The listing of events and tasks almost read like and inventory list at times.  He also tended to fall into the trap of many memoir writers, in that he felt that his story was one of great events and accomplishments.  To be fair there were more events then most people give the Carter team credit for.   <br /> <br />The area that I was attracted to the most was the detail on the Iranian issues.  He covers what took place and if the U.S should have or could have saved the Shah.  He touches on the people in the administration and gives the reader a run down of how the game is played in DC.  Overall the book is somewhat interesting.  It gets too detailed many times and you wish the author would have been a little bit nasty just to give the book some bite.  He even went easy on the political guys, who probably could have been blamed for his quick departure from office.  This book is for anyone interested in the Carter years or if you are just a political junky.   I do not think you will find any exciting details, but the book does offer a nice overviewof his time.	2005-06-11
208367:US	41012519	R1JGBYC43EMHP7	0131435264	319109260	SCORE!: A Better Way to Do Busine$$: Moving from Conflict to Collaboration	Books	5	49	49	N	N	All Gain And No Pain	It makes sense to approach business relationships as a partnership to make sure that both sides come away from the experience in a positive light, but how many times have you been involved in something the gets competitive and turns into a game of who can get the most out of the other guy.  That is what this book is about.  The authors premises is that in today's competitive and global environment with all the price pressures that there are, it is going to be relationships that are more important then squeezing that last 1 % out of your vendors.   <br /> <br />Sure this sounds like some sort of play nice book written by a non business professional that really does not know what it is like.  That perception is incorrect.  The author was the Vice Chairman of the Chrysler Corporation and practiced what he is laying out in the book.  Overall he gives any number of examples of how win - win relationships help you out in the long run.  He is a very persuasive author and his premises is helped out by the fact that deep down most if us know that he is correct.  We all like working with people that make things easy and are treating us fairly and we all dislike the pain associated with dealing with a firm that you know will stick it to you unless you are on top of them.   <br /> <br />Overall I enjoyed the book.  The author writes in a very easy to read and positive manner.  The book reads at a fast pace and is full of insightful points.   It is the kind of book that you wish all business professionals could read and put in practice.  Not only does the book spell out a better way to do business, but it is the way to stay in business.	2005-06-11
214285:US	41012519	RPP7VPY3R1EQM	0312060270	123574364	Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream: The Most Revealing Portrait of a President and Presidential Power Ever Written	Books	5	13	17	N	N	One Odd Dream	Whatever your political views might be about this political party or another, there is no arguing that Lyndon Johnson had a long and productive political career.  There is also no arguing that his personality was almost as large as the events that he took part in.   All of this is covered by this very engaging and interesting one volume look into this presidents life.  The author gives the reader a nice overview of LBJ's up bringing, takes you through his political life right to the presidential years.  There is a constant battle within the book as to what was more interesting, the odd, ego driven and larger then life personality of  LBJ or the significant issues that he covered especially during the presidential years.     <br /> <br />What I found most interesting about this book was the view into LBJ's personality.  It is surprising to me about just much of an egomaniac LBJ was.  You have to wonder if it was the massive \\"me first\\" view of the world that gave him the ability to pass through the legislation he did or was his political skill such that it exaggerated his ego.  Overall I found the book very enjoyable.  There was a lot of great bits of info tossed in and the book did not get bogged down into legislative details.  I did think that the authors admiration for LBJ seeped into the reporting, but overall it did seem fair.  What I was left with was not a better view of his accomplishments, but just how unique a man he was.  If you are interesting in LBJ, American Presidents or just the twentieth century, then I would recommend this book.	2005-06-06
214798:US	41012519	R3SQZ3QY0SD5MG	0131438204	674923877	Innovation that Fits: Moving Beyond the Fads to Choose the RIGHT Innovation Strategy for Your Business	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Back To Basics	If you have looked through the business section of your local book store over the last ten years or so, one word seemed to appear in about a quarter of all titles - innovate.  From management gurus to the media, they all have been preaching the innovation doctrine.  It almost seemed that regardless of what you did in the innovation space, as long as you were doing something was all that mattered.   It seemed that the risks associated with this move forward mantra did not seem to get much press.  The only risks discussed was the death penalty not innovating sentenced the company to.  Well now that the new economy has been shone to be a bit overheated, a new look at the innovation craze was needed.  That is where this book comes into place.   <br /> <br />After more then one company innovated themselves out of existence it started to look like, that in retrospect many innovation strategies, structures and processes where left a little wanting.   Now it looks like the bottom line is being looked at again and a little more sober view of innovation is being taken.  This book helps the reader get back to solid business plans for innovation.  The authors state that innovation in no less important, but that we need to get back to viewing the cost benefits of the risks that innovation presents.  They give the reader very clear and solid ideas on how to balance innovation gone mad and do nothing stagnation.   <br /> <br />Overall I found the book easy to read and understand the key points.  The authors give you real examples of both failures and success on the innovation front.   I found the book to be a valuable tool to remembering that doing something just for the sake of doing something cane lead to some vary difficult choices.   It is well worth the time to read the book.	2005-06-06
217574:US	41012519	R3CCAPYOYLPZBC	013149421X	5584094	From Ice Cream to the Internet: Using Franchising to Drive the Growth and Profits of Your Company	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Retail Start Up Kit	Whenever I go to any strip mall or general retail area I start to wonder if there are non-franchise establishments left.  Almost everything is franchised and if there is not one near you just wait because is coming soon.  This book details out some of the facts about the franchising boom.  It states that almost 2,300 companies franchise and that there are about 770,000 outlets that generate about $1 trillion in sales annually.  Yes the world has gone franchise and the best thing to do is hop on the band wagon. <br /> <br />This book talks about why some firms in some industries chose to go the franchising route and when others do not.  One of the main goals of the book is to explain when franchising is a good strategy for a firm and when it is not.  There are advantages and disadvantages to this strategy and the authors try to walk you through them.  The authors also try to help the reader determine whether you are better off using franchising in your own business.    <br /> <br />Overall I found the book to be interesting and full of great information.  The authors seem to know their stuff and if you are involved in franchising in any capacity then this book should help you if for nothing more then to gain a better understanding of the big picture and understand the drivers for the business model.	2005-06-03
218498:US	41012519	R3CEQ43Y6UU1GB	0131857770	594219623	Strategy Bites Back: It Is Far More, and Less, than You Ever Imagined	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Were Going To Need A Bigger Boat	Just about every book on strategy, or for that matter, every strategy meeting I have ever attended, has been a bit dry to boring.  With all this dull talk you usually get a strategy that is less the inspired, more standard and generic then anything else.  The authors state that the most successful and interesting companies they know are not boring places, but dynamic and fast moving places.  They have novel, creative and inspiring strategies.  So the authors believe that we should have fun in creating strategy and in the bargain we will get a better outcome.   <br /> <br />The authors spend a good deal of time putting examples into each of the chapters so that the reader can better understand the particular section.  They also toss in any number of interesting and many times humorous, extra bits of info to help you not take yourself too seriously.  They highlight the people and ideas they believe are worth reviewing, but they do not hold out any one to be the end all be all.   Overall the book was fast paced and enjoyable.  They took all the pain out of the topic and gave the reader a book that was exciting to open up.  They give you solid and beneficial ideas that can be used on any size project or business unit.  The book is well worth the time.	2005-06-02
218664:US	41012519	R4FC1SZSHIUXX	0446577081	734490734	Inside the Kingdom: My Life in Saudi Arabia	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Life Inside A Box	I found this book to be an interesting and fast read.  The book does not really cover much at all about Osama bin Ladin and to be fair they really do not make the claim that it will.   I was not disappointed, but I new that the book was a bit light on the detail.   If it were not for the large print and wide margins, they could not have got much more then a magazine article out of the text.  That point aside I did find that I learned a great deal about what it is like to live in Saudi Arabia, at least from a woman's perspective.  Given the rather bland and restricted life styles, it a wonder that the woman of the country have not held major riots.  I kept thinking that Saudi is closer to the 13th century then the 21st.   <br /> <br />I think the author did a good job at trying to explain why the rather fundamental attitude is so pervasive within the kingdom.  You can see where the view that it is better to kill ones self in an act of terrorism is acceptable as long as they wrap it up in fundamental religious overtones. Overall I enjoyed the book.  It gave me a nice perspective on what it is like in Saudi and why I do not what to visit.  The only knock on the book would be the detail, she lived there for over a decade and was barely able to scrape together 200 pages.	2005-06-02
220591:US	41012519	R34TTC0PS3DP8I	0131490508	41191224	Moral Intelligence: Enhancing Business Performance and Leadership Success	Books	5	55	58	N	N	An IQ Test For The Soul	Not many of us start our business careers deciding what principles and values we should follow.  If we do it is usually something involving money and advancement.  The authors state that in their joint careers they have worked with hundreds of leaders and they found that the most successful of them all seemed to have something special.  They decided that there was something more basic then emotional intelligence skills that seemed to be at the heart of long lasting business success.  They call this trait moral intelligence.   <br /> <br />The authors describe moral intelligence as the mental capacity to determine how universal human principles should be applied to our values, goals and actions.  The ability to differentiate between right and wrong.  So they then decided to determine if this trait can be taught, which leads us to this book.  They have written a book that is not so much a how to guide but almost a self examination of the readers moral compass and it gives the reader a challenge to do better.   <br /> <br />Overall the book is interesting and a bit inspiring.  When reading a book about how you can make better decisions that are grounded in basic moral principals, you can not help but feel inspired to do better. The book is almost like a roadmap for readers to find their own moral compass. They make a good case that doing the right thing is not only the right way to lead your life, but that it is the best way to conduct business.  I enjoyed the book and I think if you are interested in becoming a better person, you will also.	2005-06-01
220693:US	41012519	R1SKFYI5NIN14C	0131470213	813085551	No Substitute for Victory: Lessons in Strategy and Leadership from General Douglas MacArthur	Books	5	8	9	N	N	He Came Back	I am a bit of a World War Two history buff so of course I have read a number of books about the involvement in any number of campaigns that MacArthur was involved in.  That is why I was excited to read this book.  I had always heard that MacArthur was considered a great leader and here is the book that tells you exactly why he was considered as such.  MacArthur was one of our nation's preeminent military leaders with a career that has rarely been equaled.  Not only was he in the military for want was almost his full life, but his military accomplishments stand out as one of the most accomplished in the U.S. military history.    <br /> <br />This book covers the basic principals that made MacArthur not only a great military leader, but as a leader overall.  The authors tell us that there were three founding components of successful long term leadership.  They are values, vision and proficiency.  They argue that great leadership is first and foremost moral leadership.  Values guide us in our actions and the authors tells us that many of the scandals he hear about on the news are when leaders put aside the morals of the situation.   <br /> <br />Overall the book describes many of the skills and talents required of leaders.  The authors detail why each of the skills are important and how MacArthur developed and used them.  The book is interesting and at times exciting.  Given I also have an interested in his military career the book was doubly interesting.  You will not be disappointed.	2005-06-01
223666:US	41012519	R3N7YMK9REKCQ4	0131913611	260578058	Don't Just Relate - Advocate!: A Blueprint for Profit in the Era of Customer Power	Books	5	50	53	N	N	The Customer Is Always Right	In the age of information, it is little surprise that the majority of a businesses customers know what is under the sheets.  The internet, cable news and business channels, even a more in tune population all make the walls of most business as see through as a window.  This is why the author claims that if you are not a true advocate for your customers, then you will see continue market share erosion because there is some on out there that has become an advocate.  Earning the trust of your customers is as important, if not more then offering the best or cheapest et all, product or service.  If you earn and keep a persons trust, then the business will take care of its self.  So are the thoughts of this author. <br /> <br />He states that most forward looking companies are pursuing customer advocacy.  They are the companies that are providing customers with open honest and complete information.  They truly represent their customers best interests, not just trying to get another sale.  Overall I could not argue the authors points.  He pulls together a nice list of case studies and personal examples that lead you to believe that his way is the wave of the future.   Just looking at it from a customers point of view, this is how we all want to be treated.  I enjoyed the book.  It moves fast and provides easy to digest examples.   This book is a look at the future, either you hop on board this band wagon or be left in the dust.	2005-05-29
224212:US	41012519	RUNODBBIMI0MZ	0131420232	57526311	Spies, Inc.: Business Innovation from Israel's Masters of Espionage	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Friends Or Rivals	I mistakenly thought that this was a book on business, after all it was in the business section at the book store.  So I was surprised that what we really get from this author is a real life espionage tail.  This book starts off fast and just does not slow down.  Equal parts of the credit for the exciting pace of the book must go to the author as well as the audacious story.  The book details how the nation of Israel views part of its survival the health of it's economy.  Not a terribly original thought, but what they do to make sure it has every edge possible is what makes them and this book stand out. <br /> <br />The book details a number of James Bond like tails of daring deeds that make the reader want to shout \\"right on\\" and secretly wish that our government take a few lessons.  So this is how a competent spy agency goes about stealing industrial secrets.  The book does briefly touch on some of the business aspects, but at its heart this is n espionage book and a darn good one at that.   Overall I really enjoyed the book.  It was top notch reporting as well as a good job with the writing.  If you are interested in Israel, espionage or just how they seem to have so many technological superior products, then pick this book up now.	2005-05-29
224256:US	41012519	R2AKHYJE1G5MOD	B0007FY14Y	697012532	With Kennedy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Little Too Close	This author was the press secretary and close friend of John F Kennedy starting in the primaries and through the assassination.  Close friend probably does not describe the real feelings the author had for the late president, adoration is probably closer to the mark.  This book is his memoir of his time with JFK and all kidding aside about the 300 page love letter, he does cover some very interesting ground.  He was the press secretary so he is good at the written word.  He offers up a fast paced and colorful book that is full of interesting facts.  He had a unique perspective being around all the players, but only having to spin their deeds, not trying cover up his mistakes for history.<br /><br />There were parts of the book that seemed to me that the author gave us only part of the story.  Anything that could have been negative for Kennedy to start with, but I did start to think that maybe he was expanding what his roll was to make himself look at bit better.  He claimed a rather direct role in the communication between Khrushchev and Kennedy, and I just kept thinking there had to be more people involved.  Overall, I enjoyed the book but I wondered if maybe it was a little too kind to JFK and a little too glamorous for the author.  If you are interested in JFK then this is a nice warm and interesting book that you will probably enjoy.	2005-05-29
225652:US	41012519	RXOQ02H2BOJ73	0131863665	30593495	Winners Never Cheat: Everyday Values We Learned as Children (But May Have Forgotten)	Books	5	74	76	N	N	Crossing The Finish Line	This little book is small in size only as it covers significant and wide ranging discussions on a persons moral compass.  The author is probably one of the most successful and positive people I have ever read that would write a book that focuses on the positive side of human nature.  The author believes in being honest, fair and gracious at almost all costs.  He argues that if we all focused on these aspects of our human contact, then many other positive results will present themselves.   <br /> <br />Not only is this book a wonderful pick me up for anyone fighting their way through the corporate jungle, but it is full of bits of solid management techniques for those of us in the business world.  Even the authors personal story is a wonderful look at how someone can become such a success treating people fairly and honestly.  Overall I can not say enough positive about this book.  It is a great shot in the arm and a road map for a positive legacy.  This book is a keeper and one that you will find reading over and over.	2005-05-27
225731:US	41012519	R41QY5X3A4AJ	0802067239	814173929	Rockbound	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Between A Rock And A Hard Place	I wanted to read this book just because of the positive word of mouth the book gets and I believed it would be interesting.  What I was not prepared for was the difficult slang that the author used through most of the book.  Ok so it makes the book authentic, but I found my self getting frustrated at times and I do not read a book to get frustrated.   The book is about a fishing family in what must be one of the worst weather locations on the planet.  Cold, wet, and dark, no wonder the folks there were in such a perpetual bad mood.    I must say that the book has a way to suck you into the story.  There is so much nasty under current that I kept reading just to find out the next tough stretch.  I also loved all the detail of the fishing industry in the early 1900's.  It is fitting that such a difficult profession was the occupation of this group of islanders.  Overall I did enjoy the book.  It had a ton of historic detail and great characters.  I just did not like the difficult slang.	2005-05-27
225849:US	41012519	R36SSCRSG9D7UP	0131858386	69435087	The Rules of Work: The Unspoken Truth About Getting Ahead in Business	Books	5	27	27	N	N	The Truth Road Map	If ever there was a how to book on career success this has got to be it.  This is a no nonsense and straight to the point book that covers the basics for a successful career.  The book focuses on getting promoted or moving into a better position, but the rules are such that anyone can follow them and become better at your job.  What gets me as while I was reading the book I kept thinking two thoughts.  One was the fact that I kept thinking these rules are all common sense.  The second was the number of the rules that I have seen broken or that I have broken.   <br /> <br />Overall I found the book wonderful.  It was informative and well written.  It gets right to the point and does not get bogged down in long winded and marginally useful examples.  The book can be read in one sitting and is the perfect companion for a road trip.  This is one book you will find yourself reading multiple times.	2005-05-27
226189:US	41012519	RDEILT6NYGJXG	0131463152	600870383	Pirates of the Digital Millennium: How the Intellectual Property Wars Damage Our Personal Freedoms, Our Jobs, and the World Economy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Pirates Life For Me	This book is a description of controlling a barrel of monkeys.  The authors tackle the complex and almost untamable world of intellectual property piracy.  To their credit this is a very accessible book, they left the detailed legal opinions on the cutting room floor.  They also cover the subject in a rather even handed way.  At first they were falling onto the side I fall onto, that any of this downloading etc is stealing plain and simple.  They end up with a far more mellowed view and they almost convinced me along the way.    They give the reader a nice overview of what constitutes the new world of digital piracy.  They cover everything from a teenager downloading a new song to Asian mafia types counterfeiting Microsoft code.  It is very enlightening to say the least.  They go on to cover topics such as how is software created, the current laws, and who and where is the major counterfeiting taking place.  I really liked the chapter on the current ineffective and almost nonexistent law enforcement efforts.  Arresting ten high school kids for downloading songs while millions of versions of counterfeit software packages come into the country each year highlights the joke of the law enforcement effort.    While I might not have come to completely agree with the authors suggested middle road approach, I did find the book very enjoyable.  The book is easy to read and moves along at a nice pace.  You learn a good deal from it also.  If you are interested in the topic then this is a book that is well worth your time. Just make sure you get an authentic copy.	2005-05-27
227499:US	41012519	R3R76T77MIGEGB	0060959789	198401163	On a Wing and a Prayer: Interviews with Airline Disaster Survivors	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Real Words Real Drama	I am a sucker for these type of books.  For some reason I can not get enough of them.  There is so much drama and excitement, almost regardless of how the author writes just because of the situation that is being described.  For these reasons I thought this book was going to be a can't miss hit in my household.  It got close.  The author took a number of recent airline crashes and detailed out the NTSB interviews with the crash survivors.  It makes for some gripping reading, if nothing more then you can picture yourself in the same situation because the descriptions these people give are just what the average person would say.<br /><br />The author starts each section out with a brief description of the incident that gives the reader a little too few details.  I understand that the author was having the book focus on the words of the survivors, but I would have liked more then one paragraph of the crash details.  Most times the author did not even tell the reader the cause of the crash.  He did, however, always include the death toll of each event.  What was interesting was the range of accidents, some were the much covered accidents where multiples of people died and some were little know events.  I liked reading more about the smaller events that have lower casualties, but just as much drama.  I also appreciated the authors editing of the comments keeping them flowing in a chronological order.<br /><br />Overall the book was good.  It was full of excitement if for no other reason then due to the events that were being covered.  I did want more crash details if for no other reason to understand the crash its self a little better.  This might just be me being too picky, but I enjoy understanding why the crash took place, not just the outcome.  If you enjoy books that cover this topic then I would suggest you pick up a copy of this book.	2005-05-26
228732:US	41012519	R35IMQTF0J3WQ2	0131913646	341736173	Will Your Next Mistake Be Fatal?: Avoiding the Chain of Mistakes That Can Destroy Your Organization	Books	5	66	67	N	N	A Fatal Attraction	The one comforting realization this author brings out in his book is that significant or catastrophic events are usually caused by a long trail of mistakes.  Thus, unlike say a car crash that can be caused by one simple mistake, the business version of a car crash is  preventable if you can identify the mistakes.  The author calls this the process of managing multiple mistakes.  If you can find a away to break a chain of mistakes, a major issue can be avoided.  This book attempts to educate the reader about the avoidable traps that business people tend to set for themselves.  The author details many of the higher profile blunders over the past 30 years to show the reader the patterns and to act as case studies.  It attempts to help the reader learn from the experiences of others to improve the odds that the reader can also avoid disasters. <br /> <br />The author believes that there are lessons to be learned from looking at the mistake patterns and common themes that have taken place in other organizations.  The author believes that most organizations and people for that matter, lack the drive to truly investigate and examine the mistakes they make individually and in business, thus learning opportunities are lost.  The author believes then that by looking at others mistakes, it can at least for us, lead to learning.   Overall I found the book to be informative and interesting.   It was sort of like watching a series of train wrecks in slow motion.  It also provides an interesting way to view behavior to help the reader in identifying the chain of mistakes before you become one of the footnotes of history.   The book is well worth your time.	2005-05-25
230822:US	41012519	RHFEPNCNO00A3	1591840295	215235057	Crazy Like a Fox: The Inside Story of How Fox News Beat CNN	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Fox In The Hen House	I would have to agree with some of my fellow reviewers here that the title, cover art and dust jacket description would lead you to believe that the book is about the rise of the Fox News channel.  I assumed the book was going to be a blow by blow account of how the network was set up and the decisions that went into the make up of the channel.  Well what the book really is about is the decline of CNN from number one to number two in the cable news race with a bit of the under dog reporting about the meandering and somewhat hapless MSNBC.  What the book does deliver is an interesting look at the cable news business over the last ten years and just how unprepared and seemingly unable CNN and MSNBC are in competing with the new kid on the block Fox News.<br /><br />What the story tells you in not so many words is that the real story here is not who is on each network reading the news or how much this or that budget was to cover any event, but that Fox News has a very clear and defined mission.  They know who they are and who their audience is and that is one of the primary secrets to their success.  No matter if you love them or hate them, the management team at Fox News has a bee line into the heart of their audience and they provide a product that has become indispensable to their fan base.  We also learn that MSNBC is a business case in search of a message and an audience.  If one of the new networks should have been the leader based on corporate synergies then it should have been the folks over at GE.  What happened is a case study in chasing your tail.<br /><br />Overall I found the book very enjoyable.  It is written is a very readable and entertaining manner.  I did not find a bias in his reporting, I think he maintained a fair review down the middle.  The focus on CNN is either due to the fact that they were number one and lost the race or that they might have been more open to a reporter from the LA Times then the group over at Fox News.  Either way, I do feel obligated to knock my review down one star given the inaccurate descriptions on the cover of the book.  I am sure this was a marketing ploy given the popularity of Fox News, but it was dishonest all the same.  If you are interested in cable news then this is a good book to get an overview of the latest battle.	2005-05-23
232041:US	41012519	R3SVK21LQH9WW0	0131531182	743841245	Nightly Business Report Presents Lasting Leadership: What You Can Learn from the Top 25 Business People of our Times	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A Graduate Level Course	What a wonderful book this turned out to be.  Not only did it give me an insight into what these individuals key strengths were, but the book also had enough personal information about them that you came away from the book feeling you knew more about them as individuals.  The book starts off by making the assurance that great leaders are not only capable individuals, but they also have a desire to lead and chose to do so above all else.  They are not just great because of smarts or drive, but because they want to be and work at it continuously.   Thus the authors provide a book that is not a road map to greatness, but a review of these 25 leaders and what they do that has made them successful.  It is a broad group of people and it is interesting that the traits highlighted in the book are also wide spanning.  I had incorrectly assumed that the book was going to give me a simple list of the things I needed to get good at, no such luck.      <br /> <br />The goal of the book is to help current day leaders observe proven and successful leaders to help them in coming better.  The purpose is not so much to imitate their qualities but really to discover which attributes resonate with yourself and the cultivate those traits to expand and improve your leadership skills.  There are so many good examples in the book that it is almost too much to take in with one reading, this is one of those books that you will find yourself highlighting and marking pages for further review.  It comes as close as possible to a how to guide for personal improvement.   Overall I not only enjoyed the book, but I learned a great deal from it.  This book as so many helpful bits of info that all managers and business owners can learn from it.  The book is not only worth the money, but also worth the time to read.	2005-05-22
232609:US	41012519	R3NJE6CEJZIMXV	0131430513	276109328	Where America Went Wrong: And How To Regain Her Democratic Ideals (Financial Times Prentice Hall Books)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Time For A Little Class Warfare	A book that talks about providing more rights and power to the average person and taking it away from the very intuitions that so many of us feel control our lives, surly is a book that would have wide appeal.  After all the book starts off by talking about the desire of all peoples in the world to be free and wasn't that one of the much repeated positive outcomes of the recent war?  This book talks to these issues and has a main theme, which is that more democracy in American and across the world, will raise the standard of living for all people.      The author believes that more Americans need to get involved in the working of the government.  The author suggests that if there was more public involvement in government, there would be a dramatic reduction in the influence of the special interest groups (big business) that have taken hold in America.  He tries to tie in the overall heath of the American economy by arguing that the more democratic we are, the more prosperous we will all be.  His argument got close to a bit of redistribution of wealth plan with some of his views on taxation, but his examples and comments gave credence to his overall claims.      I do not know if the author is correct in his view of America today and its significant pitfalls that lie ahead, but who does not want to read a book that tells you that you need more individual power.  The book feeds into the somewhat common view that the special interests i.e. business leaders, rich and elected officials have taken control in one large power play designed to give them all the riches. For someone having difficultly making a house payment, this view is right on the money.  Overall I found the book interesting and well written.  The author had a spark about his writing style that made you want to take action, on what I do not know, but take action none the less. If you are not happy with the current state of politics in America then grab this book and be outraged all over again.	2005-05-21
233145:US	41012519	RN906NJ79Q4S8	0394726111	500153863	American journal: The events of 1976	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Did Ford Fall Over Again	Chances are that I might be the only person that ever reviews this book here at Amazon.  After all, the 1976 election was not that exciting with old bumbling Ford and the man with a smile so big it looked as though it encompassed his whole face.  So why did I read a book about a man known more for falling down and another that was known for growing peanuts?  The answer is simply the author of the book.  I believe that she is one of the better political authors over the past 20 years and if anyone could make this election interesting, it was Elizabeth Drew.   <br /> <br />It turns out that this book was a lot more then just the 1976 presidential election, the author also focused on the larger issues of the day, arms control, nuclear proliferation, energy policy and the economy.  Big issues that were center stage at that time and larger then the fading Nixon drama.  The author covered the story through interviews, research and a deep knowledge of the issues and landscape.  Overall the book was interesting and in depth.  It was not a flashy, quick witted political book that we get today.  My only concern with the book is that it could have used a bit of editing, it did drag in a few spots.  If you are interested in the events of 1976 then this would be the place to start.	2005-05-21
234627:US	41012519	RIHXPHO1L8O0A	0131428950	171647143	Managing Customers as Investments: The Strategic Value of Customers in the Long Run	Books	5	47	50	N	N	The Do It Smarter Book	Understanding that a businesses customers are one of it's greatest assets is not a new or novel idea.  After all these are the people that pay the bills.  But how can you fairly asses what the true value of any one customer is?  Is it all based on total revenue, profit margin or market share?  Questions that are difficult to answer and not really a black and white issue. This book teaches the readers how to see the link between customer value and firm value.  It also does a great job of showing you which aspects of customer management are the most critical.  One of the rules they want you to look at is long term relationships and strategies and not just the short term fix. <br /> <br />There were two great aspects of the book that made it one that can easily be used.  First the authors made the decision to keep the approaches simple.  You did not have to work through some multiple step process with NASU like calculations.  The authors theory is that simple and intuitive concept can be implemented by almost all management thus insuring a better adoption rate.  The second aspect I felt was valuable was that the book was full of real life examples.  It was far easier to see how the process worked when you could relate to the examples provided.  Overall I really enjoyed the book.  It was informative, had great ideas and is one that can make a difference in any organization.	2005-05-19
235569:US	41012519	R224WUIU68JR2I	0131425021	287942128	The Power of Impossible Thinking: Transform the Business of Your Life and the Life of Your Business	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Self Help Book With An MBA	Ok, I have to admit that the cover art and title kind of made me think this book was going to be some self help book authored by people about to catch the next space ship to a far and distant planet.  Once I got past this internal bias I found that the book was very interesting, and that it in part helped me to figure out my initial reaction to the cover.  I must say that the views this author takes and the way they tie in the business world with expanding and shifting individual thought patterns was very creative.  I also came away surprised that some much of the book focused on the business world, again my bias thought this was a self help book.  What is that saying about judging a book by its cover?   <br /> <br />The authors detail that it is a proven fact that most people see the world and each situation that they are involved in through a predetermined method that almost ensures a set outcome.  The more I read the book the more I kept saying of course, that is why many difficult situations marked up to misunderstanding come about.  People do not hear or see the world for what it is, only for what they think it is and what to see.  This book teaches the reader that the ability to put aside preconceived thought patterns is what makes truly great leaders.  To be able to see an opportunity where others have not is as much to do with how you interpret the incoming data as to the intelligence and creativity of the individual.      <br /> <br />Overall I found the book to be very interesting and powerful in its message.  It was easy to read and engaging from the very first page.   The authors message that what you see in any situation depends upon what you bring to the situation was eye opening.  This book is great for getting you to think about making slight changes in your view of the world that will have significant dividends in your life.	2005-05-19
238139:US	41012519	R3B09IKFJ78K7O	0131467506	389837219	The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty Through Profits	Books	5	30	31	N	N	The Top Of The Pile	I think it is fair to say that it is rare that a book falling into the business category can also be one that can also be inspiring.  This book falls into that category.  The books main premise is that the worlds 4 billion plus people that live in rather dismal poverty are never going to be able to claw their way out of that poverty based on insufficient charity.  The author believes that what is going to get these people a better quality of life is business investment.  Global organizations can profit by establishing locations in these under serviced markets, sell a base product at a marginal profit and increase the well being of the community.  The more of this investment, the more wealth is generated within the community and the more business opportunities there are.      <br /> <br />The author gives a basic volume business case study for how to make a profit in these rather depressed markets.  He also claims that even though the populations are so poor, there are so many of them that any consumer staple product could provide sustainable revenue.  The author wraps his whole premise up with dialog around how major global organizations are hitting the wall within the western world in total sales and to obtain real growth they are going to have to start looking to the less attractive parts of the globe.  The author finishes by stating that business can not only increase share holder value, but also make meaningful and sustained improvements in the life's of literally billions of people. <br /> <br />Overall I found the book well written and enjoyable.  I got carried away in the optimistic win / win scenarios the author was detailing.   Hey why can't this work I thought, look at all the good it would do.  Well time will tell, the pessimist in me sees a good amount of risk that would keep a good chunk of the business world at bay.  Regardless, the book is a compelling, interesting and inspiring book that is well worth your time.	2005-05-17
238360:US	41012519	RV5I9N63D57WJ	1594200122	969784645	Things Worth Fighting for: Collected Writings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Book Worth Reading	I bought this book in order to read the authors columns on the Iraqi wars.  I heard about the author too late to read much of his work in real time so this book was a nice review of his work.  The book offers so much more then just the war columns.  In fact some of his better writing might be in his coverage of politics in the 90's.  Lastly, I bought the book because a heard some of it read on CSPAN and if you enjoy solid, quality writing then this author has to be on your list.  The more I read the book the more I enjoyed the writing. The author is a master at low key yet biting humor and he makes you feel good not being one of the hip in crowd.  <br /> <br />Although I picked up the book for the coverage of the war, and I enjoyed that a great deal, what I really liked was his brutally honest columns on some political figures.  I will never be able to look at Jesse Jackson again the same way.  The view that the author paints of Jackson is so unflattering that you have to think Jackson probably hated no man more.  What was so great about the reporting was that the author brought out some of the more low key traits of Jackson that lead to bigger issues.   Only knowing a bit about Jackson, I saw the traits and started to see where the author was going.  I also loved his view of Perot, the picture he paints is of a small little man that has let his ego and paranoia take over in equal parts.  I would not be surprised if the man has a food taster at the ready.         <br /> <br />The coverage of Clinton was also fair I felt.  This is to say that it would make a Clinton fan a bit uncomfortable.  Overall the author does seem to take to task Democrats more then Republicans, but his targets of choice are so deserving of his attention that it is hard to make a case for bias.   Overall this is a wonderful book.  The author was a gem, a true master with the language.  He could make the most dull topics sing off the page.  If you are a fan of the author then this is a nice bookto keep his memory alive.  If you are new to him then you will be excited to read each page and will only be disappointed when the book comes to an end.	2005-05-16
241094:US	41012519	R24UWZ8CXRC3EG	013147944X	444515881	The Next Global Stage: Challenges and Opportunities in Our Borderless World	Books	5	46	50	N	N	The Next Best Seller	The first thing I noticed about this book were the actual words and sentence structure.  I do not want to make too much out of it, but you can tell that the author is not a native westerner.  This made the book more enjoyable for me because of the sing song way the author writes.  Now on to the book.  One could argue that the world has changed more in the last 20 years then ever before and it is due to or has caused what we call globalization. Everything is changing and at a much faster pace then most of us would like.  This book takes a good look at how business and individuals can take advantage of or at least be prepared for even further globalization.      <br /> <br />The book starts by taking a look at the current state of the world and how we fit into it.  The author talks to us about the areas of the world that are exploding as well as the overall global economy.  The author then explores what major trends are taking place in the global economy.  He ends the book with a review of how the trends he covered will change nations governments.  Overall it is a very interesting and well written book.  I felt I was learning something new on each page.  The only minor criticism I would have is that the author did seem to be very confident in him self to the point of being a bit arrogant.   The book is well worth your time if you are interested in the global economy.	2005-05-14
243125:US	41012519	R1X7TPQ23SURJY	0865475814	104815263	The Outlaw Sea: A World of Freedom, Chaos, and Crime	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Book Of Grime, Crime and Slime	Some of the reviewers here have detailed some of the books short comings and I do not think they are being unfair.  My review is going to be focus only on the positive, because I not only like this author, but I found the book extremely enjoyable.  The author talks to us about some different aspects of the current state of ocean shipping across the world.  He covers areas from recent ship wreaks to pirate encounters.  He even takes the reader into the world of ship breaking where these massive structures are reduced to bite sized bits of steel.  The book is fast paced and very interesting. <br /> <br />Sure, over half of the book focuses on one car ferry sinking in the mid 90's, but unless you are familiar with the story, it is interesting.  I kept wondering how he got so much detail.  He covers the sinking in his somewhat off center style.  If you read his other book about the World Trade Center then you can appreciate it.  He just looks at the world with a bit of sly humor and an odd angle that makes his story telling that much more interesting. <br /> <br />Overall I thought the book was great.  The stories were interesting and somewhat unique.  He injected just the right amount of drama and detail to make the reader hurry to the next page.  Could he have spent more time on any one section of the book, probably, but he is writing as much for the readers enjoyment as to tell a story.  You may want this or that changed with the book, but at the end of the day it is an interesting, and at times exciting, book that is well written.	2005-05-12
243358:US	41012519	RBGWCNUNWWHOE	013146745X	27419577	Making Strategy Work: Leading Effective Execution and Change	Books	5	65	67	N	N	Excellent Book	I have often felt that many times the leadership of a company or even division was all about defining the strategy, where are we going and what are the overall goals.  It was then up to the next level of management to make it happen.  I am a manager and like most managers I have had a few occasions when I new where we should be going, I felt I clearly set the direction, but something in the execution failed and we did noting but waste a lot of time to get half measures.  The world is full of good plans that failed due to poor performance. This book explains that a true leader needs to keep the execution of the strategy in mind when creating the direction.  Combine the two and get your hands dirty in the working of the plan.  This book is all about getting the job done, covering the processes and actions that need to get done to make solid strategies work. <br /> <br />The author created this book from real life experiences, either his own or those of case studies and interviews.   He is giving the reader solid techniques derived from real world examples that were a success.  I also got a great deal out of the final chapter.  The author shows the reader how to apply what he has detailed in the book into a real life problem.  Making a strategy come together and really work is either good management or luck and most of us are not that lucky.  This book gives you the tools for making strategies work.  What I liked about the book is even though the author is aiming for the CEO chair with the book, the methods he talks about could be used by any level of management on any size of project.  The book is well written and enjoyable.  It is well work your time.	2005-05-12
243608:US	41012519	RZUQNFOKAK2JW	0131465740	535997526	Built for Growth: Expanding Your Business Around the Corner or Across the Globe	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Solid And Straightforward	Everything you ever wanted to know about success in retail in jammed into this one book.  This author covers it all, not just by focusing on the brand or location, but real solid ideas on people management, property management, finance and long term strategy.  Somehow the author covered both how an upstart company can get it done and how a big and bland organization can get back on the right track.  The books main focus is helping a retail business expand into becoming the next Starbucks.   <br /> <br />The author starts out by detailing some rather hard facts.  Most new business owners jump into the enterprise.  They do little planning and as a result over half fail within the first year.  The author details that the real issues are not always a lack of cash, but that the entrepreneur had a lack of knowledge of how to avoid mistakes, how to efficiently operate a business, and how to think through business issues.  The author believes that you need a holistic approach to conceiving, designing and carrying out a retail business plan.  This book gives you real world examples on how to keep your brand fresh and relevant.  On top of all this the book is also well written and easy to read.  The pages fly by.  Overall I thought the book was wonderful.  It had a ton of insight and more good ideas then you can possibly use.  This is one of those books that you keep handy and keep going back to.	2005-05-12
249056:US	41012519	R1GCY1D9LTDSA2	1574885537	25045263	Through Our Enemies' Eyes: Osama bin Laden, Radical Islam, and the Future of America	Books	5	13	14	N	N	20/20 Vision	I have read my fair share of books on Osama, the current terrorist threat etc. and I think this book is by far the most detailed and clear view of who Osama is.  The author is from the American intelligence community and, like his other book Imperial Hubris, gives you his view of the topic in straight shooter prose that is guaranteed to get your attention.  And getting you attention is exactly what this author claims to wants to do.   He is extremely concerned about the threat that Osama and his crew of terrorists pose to the United States and about every other western democracy.  Along with this concern he is also upset, to the point of despondence, with the somewhat lacking and half measured response that the western countries have so far engaged in.   He wants you to know that we have never faced this type of threat and if we do not take our response up multiple levels, we will be rewarded with suffering theretofore not thought of. <br /> <br />During the book I found myself wondering if the author did not have some sort of positive view of Osama, after all he talks about the man with almost the same type of respect as say one would talk about our own military heroes.  The more I read I came to believe that this respect is not to be confused with admiration, but probably more closely aliened with fear.  Probably the same way many people that faced Rommal in battle talked about him.  The author believes that there is no more greater threat to the U.S. then Osama and he wants you to believe the same thing.  This single mindedness had me wondering if maybe the author was not over stating the case.  Could it be possible that Osama is this all knowing, all seeing master terror operator and will be held up as the gold standard for years to come?  After all the author is from the American intelligence community and lets remember that these guys missed a few big ones over the past 20 years.    <br /> <br />Even though my nature is to be a doubting Thomas, I did finish the book believing most of what the author stated about the threat that Osama posses to he U.S.  I share the frustration that the author has with our seemingly misguided and at times half measured response to the threat.  This book is important as it provides a very clear and plain spoken review of the dangers we face and is a wake up call for any of our leaders that would rather focus our limited resources in other directions.  The last point I left the book with was the hope that either luck will shine on the foolish or that the rumored kidney disease escalates, and the threat from Osama is eliminated before more incident people meet a disastrous outcome.	2005-05-07
255993:US	41012519	R1MMS8ZJ5SL7KO	0394495756	259083088	Washington Journal: The Events of 1973-1974	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Judge This Book By Its Cover	I really like this author, up to this point everything I had read from her was top of the shelf, real quality.  With this as my view of the author I went ahead a bought this book without having any idea that it was going to be anything other then a review of the last year of Nixon's time.  I was looking for the authors cool and calm reporting of the facts.  The way she can walk you though a story with all the facts, but still keeping up a good pace is a positive trait.  I assumed she was going to give me a nice factual walk through of the events that lead to Nixon moving out.  Unfortunately, this book did not live up to my expectations.   <br /> <br />The book is really exactly what the title says it is, a journal.  Ok I know, lets get all the Don't Judge of Book by it's Cover jokes out of the way.  What did you expect you may ask.  Well I just assumed, based on all the other books of hers that I have read that this was just a title, not a description of the writing style.  So we have a book that is just a nightly set of comments.   She tells the reader the main point and her view of it, but we do not get real detail.  If this was your first book on Watergate then you would miss over half of the story.  This book might have been more interesting to me if I would not been so disappointed page after page.  Sure the authors skill in writing clear text was there, but so much of the total picture was not told given the focus of the book. <br /> <br />Overall I was disappointed.  The book did not live up to what I expected, although, to be fair maybe I had a unfair expectation.  The writing was quality, it was just that it had far too much opinion for me.  She also tried to inject some of her feelings in the book as sort of a bench mark for the feeling of the rest of the country and I do not know how close she got to the mark.  If you really like the author and are interested in a different way to look at Watergate then this would be a good book for you.  If you ware looking for a book that covers the event in a just the facts type of style then keep looking.	2005-05-02
262486:US	41012519	R1F0DGCXS341J0	1592400639	51229661	This Man's Army: A Soldier's Story from the Frontlines of the War on Terrorism	Books	3	6	10	N	N	No Action Found	I have read my fair share of combat books over the years so I think I have a good base from which to judge this book on.   Of all the books I have read in this category this book by far and away has the least amount of combat.  There was a total of about two and a half pages of combat, which amounted to this soldier and a number of others shooting one terrorist taken by surprise.  The rest of the 220 plus pages is filler and fluff. This was a significant disappointment for me due to the few books out that cover the military activities in Afghanistan.  I was excited to find this book, but the more I read the less pleased I became.   <br /> <br />What the reader does get is a brief biography about this particular soldier, a review of basic training, and life at a military base in Kuwait.  The author did not even get into Afghanistan until just over half way into the book.  And then basically all we get to read about is the author walking around and blowing up old weapons.  There is very little excitement in the book.  The one thing I do give the author credit for is he a good author.  Even though the subject matter was no more exciting then the average white collar office job, he wrote in an engaging and interesting fashion.   It made reading about his rather mundane military existence a little bit better.     <br /> <br />Overall I found the book to be a bit run of the mill.  There was almost no action nor a good overview of any part of the Afghanistan operation.  The limited amounts of excitement were somewhat muted given the lack of near death danger that one might be looking for with a book such as this.   The author saved himself with the high quality of his writing.  Even though the book does not cover much exciting, the author made it entertaining and easy to read.  I hope there are better books out there on the Afghanistan campaign, certainly this is not one that will be remembered very long.   <br />	2005-04-27
270947:US	41012519	R1FSMYW7HYNB78	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Word Explosion	I have to admit that I only picked this book up because of the recent tsunami event in Asia.  That was such a dramatic event, I figured that any book about something similar would have to be interesting.   The first thing the struck me was that the author could write such a long book over this event.   The eruption happened in the late 1800's, how could there be that much to say?  It is not like there would be lots of witnesses to talk to or massive amounts of news reporting.  Well the author fills the book up with just about everything one could possibly talk about in a book about an event in the 1800's.  There is so much other stuff being talked about in the book that by the time you get to the actual volcano pay off, you wonder why you bought the book in the first place.  We get to read about shipping, the telegraph process at the time, how the Muslim religion got started in Asia etc.  So much extra information that the details on how and why volcano's erupt is almost lost in the noise. <br /> <br /> I do have to give it to the author, he has a unique writing style.  I read a lot of non-fiction and almost all non-fiction writers fall into a just the facts type of writing.  Hey it is non-fiction so there is not room for interesting word choice right.   This author forgets all the bland regurgitating of the facts and spices up his writing with just a slue of interesting word choices and sentence structures.  You really need to pay attention to catch some of the sly humor and what I considered odd analogies.  It made for an interesting reading experience that kept the reader interested in some of the less exciting parts of the book.   <br /> <br />Overall I was a bit disappointed in the book in that I wanted more on the event its self.  The book spent at least 60% of the time on topics that were related to the main event, but defiantly not as exciting.  To be fair the book does offer up an interesting view of the world on 1883, but I wanted more on the massive explosion and following destructive events.  Because this was what I was looking for in the book I came away a bit frustrated.   The one redeeming quality for impatient readers such as my self is that the author is very good at his trade and could make a list of names an interesting read.  So the book was not exactly what I wanted, but the good writing and mostly interesting subject matter made the long walk to the end agreeable.	2005-04-20
281164:US	41012519	R19YCHLBCPUSNC	000653113X	603133495	Saddam's Secrets: The Hunt for Iraq's Hidden Weapons	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Hunt For An Editor	I have read a number of books about the Iraqi weapons inspection process and I must say that this book is the most in depth.  In what I admittedly would fess up to be a bit of a stereotype, the author is British thus the book is a bit on the dry side and full of detail.  So much detail that at times it gets in the way of the main story.  The author not only covers the story of how the Iraqi's hid the weapons or hindered the inspectors, but he also covers the formation of the weapons inspection team and process.  He also covers many of the people involved and if you watched the lead up to the latest Iraqi war then you know all the names involved in this book.  It seams like the years change, but the main experts are all the same.   <br /> <br />The most interesting parts of the book for me covered the inspection process.  I expected and heard a lot of about how difficult the Iraqi's made it for the inspectors.  A constant peaty and nagging version of a cat and mouse game that would make even the most patent man scream in frustration.  What I had not read before was the different ways the Iraqi's made it dangerous or how often the implied physical harm was around each corner.  I kept wondering just how much these guys got paid given all the difficulties of their jobs, was it really worth it?  The author also gives us a good review of the success the UN had in uncovering weapons in the first few years.  The Iraqi's did seem to be somewhat cagey in their hiding of the weapons, but to be fair some of the discoveries were almost embarrassing for the Iraqi's.  My toddler could have hidden some of the information and weapons better then these guys.  It left one with the impression that the Iraqi's were in part a military organization filled up with incompetent relatives of Saddam that merely did as they were told with very little thinking. <br /> <br />Overall the book was interesting if not a bit long winded.  The author could have cut out about 25% of the book and still got his point across, but in a much more readable fashion.  He slipped into minutia of detail that was dull and not needed.  I half expected his meal menu's and bathroom break details.  It was also a bit humorous, given what we know today, with the last section of the book that was devoted to the breathless urgency of the Saddam threat.  As we have seen, Saddam's only weapon of mass destruction was famine and poverty.  At the end of the day the unstated story up to this point is that in the realm of removing weapons from Iraq, the UN did it's job.  The book is interesting, but do not be surprised if you find yourself skipping a page here and there.	2005-04-11
287871:US	41012519	R229RRF24E65RB	1586482939	326420411	Election 2004: How Bush Won and What You Can Expect in the Future	Books	4	9	10	N	N	What To Expect From The Book	After reading this book I came to the realization that maybe good non fiction book is like a bottle of wine, a bit of age helps it out.  I do not know if the book was a high level shallow review of the topic because it was rushed out the door or if it was due to the authors usual writing styles are best suited for 5 page magazine articles.  Either way, the puddle created by a melting snowball would have more depth then this book.  With that said, I do give this book credit for what it did deliver, a somewhat gossipy and interesting overview of the 2004 presidential election.  It was just that the authors made claims on the dust jacket about it being the definitive account of the 2004 election, which could not be farther from the truth of the matter. <br /> <br />I am a political junky and must say again that I did enjoy the book.  The authors give he reader an easy to read and fast paced account of many of the highlights of the last election.  They have a tabloid reports eye for interesting bits of information that they string together using the overall race as a method to give you more gossip.  They did seem to have more access to the Kerry campaign, which should not be a surprise given he was the challenger.  They also seemed to me to be fair in their treatment of both candidates.  As a matter of fact I thought if anything they went too easy on both parties when talking about some of the mistakes.  With this being said, if you are die hard fan of either of the two candidates you may find some of the book a bit annoying, but I think the authors were bland enough to keep the true fans on the positive side of full blown rage.  <br /> <br />Overall I was disappointed in the book from a expectation point of view.  The authors sold the book as a definitive inside account of the campaigns yet there did not seem to be a massive treasure trove of new information.  I did enjoy what the book had to offer and as a light and quick review of the campaign it does a good job.  Ithink the book is best suited for someone with a passing interest in the subject that would get bored with a good amount of detail.  Then again it is early, if you have to read a book now this is probably as good as any alternatives out there now.	2005-04-06
293211:US	41012519	R3VCJVZ2T41N3K	0976108402	23952332	Bataan Diary	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More Then The March	I have always enjoyed reading about World War two, but most of my reading has been about the war in Europe.  That was one of the draws of this book for me.  I have read about the Bataan death march, but had never heard of nor read about the American guerilla activities in the Philippines.  I also was interested in just what was it like for a military man to be on his own in the jungle fighting the enemy.  So it is safe to say that I was excited to dig into the book.  Not to give too much away, but I found the book was exactly as billed.   Very interesting and entertaining.  A well written and easy to read book about a topic that most people do not know much about.   <br /> <br />After completing the book the one area that just took my breath away was the story of how the main character and his fellow soldiers lived.  What these guys lived through with the near starvation diets and fighting off one horrible disease after another was awe inspiring.  Just that fact that they kept after it day after day gives a new meaning to the term persistence.  It also made the reader a bit proud at just how much many of these men tried to get back into the war effort.   They could have laid low and waited out the war, but many of them kept trying to join one resistance group after another or actively participated in armed conflict.   <br /> <br />Anyone that has read about Japanese war crimes will be familiar with the way they treated their prisoners of war, but if you are not familiar with that story then you are in for a shock.  How people can be so cold and cruel never ceases to amaze me.  It also was sickening to read the way they treated the local population.  Overall I really enjoyed the book.   It held my interest through the full book.  To be honest I was concerned that the parallel story of the main characters wife would be dull to me, but it really added a lot to the story.  To read what she was going through back home made the overall story have more meaning.  I also liked how the author would give the reader updates as to how the overall war in the Pacific was going.   If you are interested in World War Two then this book is well worth the money.	2005-04-01
302408:US	41012519	R20MU3D7CO08DW	1588340058	16362230	The Mystery of Flight 427: Inside a Crash Investigation	Books	5	4	5	N	N	28 Seconds	I have always been interested in aircraft crashes, or more accurately the investigation into what caused them, thus I have read a number of books on the topic.  This book is one of the better ones I have read.  The author gives the reader a very enjoyable and interesting to read account of the accident and investigation.  He also highlights one of the accident victims surviving spouse, which gives the reader an insight not normally covered in this type of book.  I do not think the author could have covered the story in any other angel unless he would have been able to become a fly on the wall at either USAir or Boeing. <br /> <br />The book covers all the staples of this type of non fiction read, we have the pre-crash detail of the crew, aircraft and some passengers, the very compelling description of the crash its self and the post crash start to the investigation.  No matter how many of these books I read I never get accustomed to the rather scary chance that everyday life can turn upside down in the blink of an eye.  From the start of the incident to crash it took 28 seconds, the drama packed into those seconds is detailed in this book, at least from the perspective of the voice cockpit recordings.  The author also does a good job of describing how a NTSB investigator conducts an investigation.  The work that these people do is not well known which is too bad given the advances in safety they have been responsible for.     <br /> <br />Probably the most under reported aspect of this crash investigation, and probably something that takes place with most accidents where the cause is not immediately known, is just how much lobbying the airline, aircraft manufacture and pilots union do to the NTSB.  All three of these organizations were pushing for their versions of the story regardless of what the facts were showing them.  As you can probably guess their versions of the cause all directed the blame for their respective companies or members.  It left a rather bad taste in my mouth given that the goal of the NTSB is to find the cause of accidents so they can be eliminated. Overall I really enjoyed the book.   It was very interesting and well written.  If you enjoy this type of book then you will devour this one.  It is just simply one of the best books of this type that I have ever read.   If you are looking for other books of this type I would suggest \\"Nine Minutes, Twenty Seconds: The Tragedy & Triumph of ASA Flight 529\\".	2005-03-25
306197:US	41012519	R1GDWS7LDR5N4M	0531113795	318800914	America's First Ladies: Changing Expectations	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Expectations Not Fulfilled	I read about 5 pages of this book and started to wonder if the author was talking down to me or if I was just going through a highly emotional period in my life.  I pressed on until about page 20 when I stopped and looked the book up on Amazon.  I then realized the issue, this book is written for young adults.  This book came into my house as a bargain table purchase of my wife's that sat around on the shelf for a couple of years.   I finally took it down to see what it contained.  Once I found out the book was geared to a young adults the rather basic and bland writing style made sense.  At the end of the day it made for a book that I got through so fast I could almost delude myself in thinking I had picked up speed reading skills. <br /> <br />I tend to like my non fiction books to follow chronological order and find that if they do not I get disappointed.  This book, one that you would think almost demands a historical order, was chopped up into subject specific chapters.  One chapter on ball gowns, one on parties etc.  I felt that I could not get a good feel for how the position of first lady changed over the years because of the snippets in each chapter made it difficult to see the progressions.   I also felt that the author was able to hide content holes by structuring the book in this fashion.  She tended to fill the chapters up with a predominate amount of recent or more popular first ladies.  It was probably easier to find the material that way. <br /> <br />Overall I was disappointed by the book.  This being said I am probably not the right reviewer for the book.   I have never read, at least not for 20 some odd years, a book focused on a teenager market thus I was disappointed in its depth.  I also have no idea what a teenager would be looking for in a book of this nature so I can only judge the book by my own viewpoint.    <br />	2005-03-22
307479:US	41012519	R7OXOP1V8SEVT	0811728056	531761848	Fighting for the Future: Will America Triumph?	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Street Fight In The Making	Sharp and to the point, those are the words that I would use to describe this author.   My romantic view of a grisly old military vet with equal numbers of battle scares to chips on his shoulder is jump started by this book.  The author gives the reader his view of the world from the late 1990's to the 9 / 11 attacks.  His main focus is the U.S. military and the possible conflicts it will need to be engaged in over the next decade or so.  He also opines on some social trends that, although marginally effect the U.S. security equation, seamed to me to be a bit of a stretch.  The author is excellent at describing military issues, but I felt myself viewing his writing on social trends with a skeptical eye.  I felt the prism he was looking through was one a bit bias toward viewing a world where all motives lead to military conflict <br /> <br />The comments he has on the focus of the U.S. military is eerie given the Iraq war.  If you have followed the current conflict then you will be struck by how so many chapters of the book pretty much give a run down of how the conflict would turn out and the pit falls that awaited the U.S, all this two years before the war started.  I can understand how many of the top tier military commanders today have a negative view of the author because he does not mix words.  He lets the reader know that many decisions that are being made today and that have been made over the past ten years, were to fight an enemy that does not exist.  Judging by this authors book, nothing short of a full revamping of the current structure of the military is needed.   New weapons systems, equipment, training and force make up are just the start.  The author spells out so many areas of weakness given our new enemy of disaffected and religiously inspired mercenaries that that you wonder how we are going to truly suppress and overcome the enemies in Afghanistan and Iraq.       <br /> <br />Overall I found the book interesting and insightful.  Sure not all of the themes of the book are original thought, but the author has just the right mix of good ideas, fiery bombast, and old fashioned common sense that you can do nothing less then stand up and pay attention.  Large organizations are slow to change, the larger the more time they take.  What this author tells us and what the 9 / 11 attacks showed us is that we need to actively change how we view the new enemy.  My concern is that the needed changes the U.S. military and intelligence gathering organizations are facing will be at a far slower pace then the new tactics of the terrorists.  If you are interested in the U.S. military and the warfare we are going to be viewing on CNN over the next 20 years then you will enjoy this book.	2005-03-21
309698:US	41012519	R11LJEMMBJE4FN	051759871X	132075104	The President We Deserve: Bill Clinton: His Rise, Falls, and Comebacks	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Compromise	After reading this book I came away thinking it was average.  The author just tried to cover too many different aspects of President Clintons life.  The author gave the reader a mini biography that was fluffy and light, a review of the campaign that was rushed, and a review of the first term for President Clinton that lacked any real depth.  If the author would have just briefly touched on the bio and the campaign as a lead in chapter he would have been better off because then the reader would have been prepared for a very cursory glance. I will give the author credit, he wrote a positive book.  By that I do not mean an overly glowing propaganda piece about Clinton, he covered everybody in a calm and level headed fashion that probably stems from his British upbringing.<br /><br />This leads me to what I found to be the most interesting bit of the book, and that was the authors perspective.  The European's have a different view of American politics then locals and that rather dispassionate and sometimes puzzled view of the scene comes out in the writers text.  Many times I thought the author was just a bit lost as to why a particular issue was causing such an dust up or why certain policies were not getting passed.  Again the author did not always fall to picking the path Clinton took, there were any number of times when I felt the author wondered just what was Bill thinking.  I also liked the understated way the author detailed events that were dripping in high stakes drama, at least in the U.S.<br /><br />Overall the book was average.  I did not find a whole lot new in the book and many times the author had to resort to almost just listing issues because he was running out of room.  He took on far too many topics to do most of them justice and at the same time he got the reader just far enough into a topic to be disappointed that he did not finish the study.  Again I think the best part of the book is just the interesting way an European reported on the events of the first Clinton term.  It gave the events a little less drama and a lot more level headed thought.	2005-03-19
317043:US	41012519	RYWP8JSM39CZL	1565846850	808010366	Legal Lynching: The Death Penalty and America's Future	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Legal Vengeance	I bought this book with a somewhat self serving hope that the senior Jackson's very entertaining oratory style would be peppered through the text.  Regardless of whether I agree or disagree with him, I have always found his public speaking to be entertaining and far livelier then most politicians or activists.  With this being said I was disappointed to find out that Jesse Sr. really only was present in the forward and those few pages were very restrained.  Not one three subject list, not a rhyme to be found, no fire and brimstone, just a smooth and calm forward to a book that explains a thought out position on capital punishment.  This calm tone was held through the book, even in areas that most people start to get a bit excited about, religion, racism etc, the authors kept a level course.  Of course to be taken seriously they had to, plus there is the celebrity factor of Jesse Sr. that probably hurts as much as it helps in making the book credible. <br /> <br />So now to the meat of the book.  The authors, and I am assuming it was 90% the work of the professional author that was hired to help, give the reader a brief history of the death penalty in America and then a chapter each on the main reasons that the authors feel the death penalty needs to be eliminated.  Again to be fair to the authors the review of the reasons, from bad legal representation to racism and the high rate of conviction reversals to religious questions were all done in a very even handed and one could almost say dispassionate way.  I am sure that they felt to have a creditable book the needed to keep a level head and thus have created a book that  touches on an excitable topic, but leaves the rhetoric at the door.  The authors use a number of examples from the past 25 years, many of which a reader with an interest in the topic would have heard about in the media.  The effect is to make the book relevant to the current day and not a historical review of justice in the wild west. <br /> <br />Ithink the biggest complaint I would have is that the book was not overly deep or presented in such  way to give the reader more of the pro capital punishment side.   The authors could have put in about 10% more effort on each chapter to have really provided a deep and meaningful book on the subject.  By skimming some of the topics it left me feeling I was not getting the full story.  And at just a touch over 150 pages of real text they had the room to be a bit more verbose.  As to explaining both sides, if you are really going to present a book on the elimination of the death penalty then you are hoping to speak to the people on the fence and to do so I think an honest and well received book would try and cover more of what the pro death penalty people really are after, an eye for an eye.  The authors could have touched a bit more on these areas and it would have made the book and argument stronger.   Overall I enjoyed the book, it was easy to read, well written and level headed, it just was not too deep.	2005-03-13
317908:US	41012519	R1U5WHYMOGN8F4	1400063523	567524678	INTELLIGENCE MATTERS: The CIA, the FBI, Saudi Arabia, and the Failure of America's War on Terror	Books	4	4	4	N	N	So Does Content	The author, Senator Bob Graham, was the former chair of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence thus he has a back ground that would give his comments a fair amount of credence.  This is his book on the September 11th attack and the war on Iraq.  These two events are the two main sections of the book and a few things are apparent from the get go.  The Senator is no fan of President Bush and he has a special level of distrust and maybe even dislike for the Saudi Royal Family.  He also ran for president in 2004, which added a slight touch of bad grapes to the anti Bush comments, but an interesting bit of self commentary about why he thinks he gained no supporters. <br /> <br />He starts the book out with the many, he counts 12, different events that U.S. law enforcement organizations could have stopped part if not all of the 9 - 11 attacks.  It really gets you to wonder if these 19 guys were that lucky or if we were just that incompetent or lazy.  Sure a few of the events were a bit of a stretch given the state of inter agency cooperation at the time, but there were enough of them that you really left this section of the book wondering how this many holes can be filled.  The Senator then launches into the, by now, well worn criticism about President Bush abandoning Afghanistan and the search for Osama, in favor of his war of choice in Iraq.  Lets call this the Howard Dean section of the book where the author tried to convince either the reader or himself that he was the true anti war Democrat that just happened to vote for the Presidential authority to go to war.   <br /> <br />Overall the book was interesting.  The author tossed in a number of interesting facts that I had not come across before.  He digs into the Saudi relationship to some of the 9-11 terrorists, which makes you wonder if we invaded the correct Arab country.  The book was easy to read and entertaining.  The main criticism I would have is that the author gave us the light version.  In almost everychapter he could have given the reader more detail.  It was almost as if he was in such a rush to get the book out he door or that he decided to only give us about a third of the story.   Maybe he is looking to follow this book up with a sequel.  So I enjoyed what was on the pages, but wanted more then appeared.  For this I feel obligated to decrease my rating by one star.	2005-03-12
326866:US	41012519	R3FABIUXXR6HA	0813340977	356860638	Fatal Choice: Nuclear Weapons: Survival or Sentence	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A Bomb Of A Book	I must say right up front that I was disappointed with this book.  I had read the authors other book on his time as an Iraqi weapons inspector and found it to be both interesting and entertaining.  I had hoped this book would be the same.  It turns out the interesting sections were sparse and even the authors mother might be hard pressed to call the book entertaining.  The author has spent most of his career working on nuclear weapons issues in regards to disarmament.  Given that he was a member of the Australian government this meant his work consisted of being ignored by the countries with the weapons and be placated by the countries that wanted them.  The book is his review of the current state of affaires with nuclear weapons and his opinion on the \\"star wars\\" missile defense system the U.S. is in the process of building. <br /> <br />I guess I should not be too hard on the author.  He did drop into his book here and there very interesting bits of information about nuclear weapons, who has them and what do they have.  He also gives the reader some in sight as to which counties helped who with the creation of the weapons.  I also liked the numbers he tossed in every now and then.  The overall amount of money the U.S. alone has spent on these weapons systems is jaw dropping amazing.  My complaints with the book are two fold.  First he left out a large amount of interesting information that could have bulked up the book.  There were very little discussion on what the current weapons can do, how they are delivered, and how the missile defense system is supposed to work.  Given that the author was barely able to scrape together 160 pages for the book, it might not have been that bad of an idea to spend a little time at the library and give the reader a bit more.          <br /> <br />But my largest issue with the book was this pie in the sky view that by just talking to all the counties in the world about not having these weapons, somehow the countries that currentlyhave the weapons would just decide to trash them and we would all live happily ever after.  Now I do not argue that this would be a nice state of affairs, but lets step into reality. Who really thinks the conservative government we have now would think voluntarily getting rid of all nuclear weapons is a good idea.  How about the Israelis, surrounded by enemies or how about India and Pakistan, two countries that routinely have boarder fights today.  I felt the thinking was simplistic, narrow minded and bordering on the fanciful. Overall the book was average, it held some interesting bits of info, but also suffered from rather long and dull musings about a better world. I am sure there are better books dealing with weapons disarmament or the missile defense system.      <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-05
329238:US	41012519	RRX7D8KX3HPBF	0813122333	794626265	King of the Mountain: The Nature of Political Leadership	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Not Much Monkey Business	This is one very interesting and entertaining book.  A relative recommended it to me and although he made it sound interesting, I was still a little apprehensive.  I thought the book was going to be how average human leaders have similar traits as monkeys and half the book was going to be talking about 5 year studies in the jungle done by National Geographic types.   I was wrong.  The author completed one mammoth feat of research by researching every leader of a country from 1899 to 2000.  He spent 18 years doing it and read thousands of books and articles on the subjects.  Over1,900 mostly men were studied and the author came up with common personality traits that the leaders shared.  The book details out these traits and how the author interpreted them in relation to political leadership and slightly how they stacked up against monkey hierarchies. .   <br /> <br />I really enjoyed how the author detailed out certain traits and then used examples from his research to show how those traits came into being with the different leaders.  What came out of the book right away was that a certain type of man has the drive to become a leader, the alpha male, and that very few leaders just happen to fall into being the man in charge.  Not only was the psychology of the book interesting, but the vast coverage of interesting bits of history made the book enjoyable to read.  The author would dig up relevant and many times amusing, antidotes from his research to describe a particular ruler.  He also did not just focus on the most well know leaders, but showed the reader how the traits on display covered leaders from all aspects of the spectrum, from democratically elected leaders to dictators and Kings.   <br /> <br />Probably the only sad section of the book dealt with the ways so many of these men hung one to the very last minute to the power they had and that the obsession with keeping the power tended to facilitate the circumstances for their down fall.  Overall I really enjoyed the book.  It is interesting and well written.  It could have very easily been a dry and dull study, but it comes no where near this.  The authors quirky sense of humor helped to keep the book light and fast paced.  If you are interested in politics and the men on stage then this will be a good book to add to your collection.	2005-03-03
336260:US	41012519	R2PV6PLKTX0LIJ	038529591X	369864282	Merchants of Treason: America's Secrets for Sale	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Anything For A Buck	I was surprised by two things with the book.  The first was the large number of spy's, or more accurately greedy unscrupulous people with high security jobs, that the book details.  The second is just how dumb many of them were.  The authors detail out the large number of spy's that have worked against the U.S., primarily during the 1970's and 1980's.  The authors also give the reader a nice, but brief history of espionage against the U.S. and details of how many of the organizations that these people were part of.  The reader also gets a nice look at the actual techniques that were used to both spy and catch the traitors.  Again here I was surprised at just how lax the security procedures were that allowed so much damage.  How people could walk out of the CIA and FBI daily with brief cases full of top secret documents is beyond me.  Is there not a security guard that could be posted at the door?   <br /> <br />I have read about many of the more notable spy's over the past 50 years, but I had not heard of maybe half of the people detailed in the book.   You will be surprised at just how many people grab a few secret documents and head off to the local Russian embassy for the dirty version of lets make a deal.  The fact that so many of these guys, yes most of them are men, get caught after only receiving a few thousand dollars speaks to the overall intelligence of these James Bond emulators.  I mean these guys could have walked around with a blue wind breaker with yellow lettering that said SPY and they would have been less obvious then what many of them did.  What concerned me was just how stupid many of the guys were, almost to the point of wondering how they even got their jobs in the first place.  The reason this concerned me was if these are the guys getting caught maybe there are multitudes of competent spy's out there that we will never find out about.  Also just how bad is our security that these intellectual duds were able to game the system and walk out ofthe building with the family treasures.      <br /> <br />Overall I found the book well written and interesting.   The authors were able to keep the pace of the book lively and limit the amount of dull overly detailed descriptions of  legal proceedings.  I found the book a rather large eye opener and would recommend it to anyone interested in national security or espionage.    It also gave me more then one or two laughs at just how hapless these guys were.  In some cases it was the key stone cops meet Tom Clancy.	2005-02-25
344599:US	41012519	R2MSP02I1Z52KB	0060571284	422471086	America the Vulnerable: How Our Government Is Failing to Protect Us from Terrorism	Books	5	5	5	N	N	America's Three Card Monty Security	I do not know what came out more clearly from this book, it was either that America has so many vulnerable points that protecting them is a job that is almost beyond comprehension or that what we have done over the past 3 years has not had much of an effect on core security.  The author, who has been involved in Americas security needs for his whole professional life, is concerned.  He sees significant and numerous holes in the homeland security apparatus that has been reengineered since the 9/11 attacks.  He spends a good deal of the book detailing out one threat after another, even going so far as to spell out a multiple dirty bomb attack that made me think I was reading a Clancy book.  He focuses on the not very flashy, but important base infrastructure components that effect every day life.   Transportation, electrical power, emergency services to name a few.  The other half of the time the author details out the many ways the current Federal government bureaucracy is working is such an inefficient and idiotic way that one could make the case that their efforts might actually be making us less safe.      So did the author over state the case, is the book one massive country ending catastrophe after another that only the sharpest minds in Hollywood could have thought of?  I do not think so.  The favorite boggy man of this type of book is the famous nuclear suit case bombs that the old USSR seemed to be able to make is production line efficacy, but then called in the keystone cops to administer security.  Then a disgruntled Al Queda agent some how buys one and smuggles it into the Super Bowl or some other such high profile event.  Well the book stays away from this fiction novel favorite and focuses more on the more probable conventional bomb similar to the 1993 WTC attack.  The author spells out any number of ways this could happen and the effects one or multiple of these type of bombs could cause if they were placed with some forethought.  The picture is concerning and just maybe border line dramatic.  After all significant events happen all the time in the US and we pull through.  Just think of the massive destruction caused by the Florida hurricane season in 2004, state wide and huge yet the US was able to provide services to the effected areas.   Could one bomb do as much wide spread damage?  No doubt the death toll would be hire but the country coming to an end comments seamed a bit much.    Overall I enjoyed the book.  Just don't settle in for too long, the double spacing and rather thick margins made me think of college when I was tying page formatting tricks to get the desired page count on a particularly difficult term paper.  I would have liked more detail and the author could have helped his cause by expanding on his proposed homeland security over sight board.  Did he over play his case?  I don't think so, I just do not think the book will get to a wide audience because of the message.  Who wants to read page after page about how our government is missing the boat on one of it not its most important duty.  It makes for rather spooky reading.	2005-02-19
350453:US	41012519	R1UQJBPQQDLJ3L	074320073X	936917468	The Colombo Bay	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Moving Warehouse	The author of this book decided to ask a friend for a favor and hopped aboard a container ship from Hong Kong to New York in September of 2001.  He was interested in what the experience would hold and this is the premise for the book.  I picked the book up because I am one of those people that always wants to know how some process works so why not read about international shipping.  The author provides the reader with an interesting review of his time on the ship, a brief history of container shipping, a run down of many of the issues facing shipping companies today, and a running commentary of how the September 11 attacks effected him on the ship.  Of this group the issue of piracy has the most drama and the review of the shipping industry covered the how is it done section of the book. <br /> <br /> I did enjoy the book but I do have a few criticisms.  The first was that the author gave us a very small number of maps or diagrams to review.  With all the authors talk about certain parts of the journey and how the geography made it dangerous, I would have expected more detail.  Also I would have liked a bit more visual detail of the ship, I know the book was not one based on the specs of the ship, but I would have liked a little bit more then the very basic diagram that did make it in the book.   Another pet peeve of mine is when an author of a non fiction book spends time describing situations and objects that a picture would have helped make more clear, but does not spend the extra money to include pictures.  This author must have forgotten his camera, not even a few inside shots of the ship made it into the book.   <br /> <br />Overall I felt the book did not live up to it's potential.  The industry wide issues the author covered were not done with enough depth to really understand them and the September 11 comments did not add much to the story after about the third time.  The fact that the author felt he needed to remind us in each chapter that he was from NewYork City and wanted to get back became a little tiresome.  He also missed an opportunity to add in more and expand the times he does cover other recent shipping crashes or significant accidents.  This is the excitement inducing stories that would have made the book a five star review in my opinion.  The book did deliver what it said it would and he author did a good job at telling the story.  Given the rather limited choices on this particular category, this book is probably one of the better ones given it is recent and a easy read.	2005-02-14
351158:US	41012519	R24AFHOHRF90F5	0743222903	816468637	The Big Enchilada: Campaign Adventures with the Cockeyed Optimists from Texas Who Won the Biggest Prize in Politics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It Is A Bit Spicy	The author comes right out and tells you that he is a big supporter of president Bush.  Given that he worked on the 2000 Bush presidential campaign, that comment is not too surprising and given the wink-wink objectivity that some authors try to insert into these type of books, it was a bit refreshing.  This book delivers exactly what it is selling, an insiders account from the 2000 Bush presidential campaign that is humorous, biting and pro Bush.  The author was part of the team that put together the television ads.  One of the reasons this book is so good is that this author makes a living getting peoples attention with, partially, words.  The book is sharp and crisp, there are no parts that really lag.  He keeps the story moving at a nice pace and finds ways to make even room service ordering interesting.   <br /> <br />I think the two most interesting parts of the book for me detailed how the campaign and Bush dealt with the debates and the view of the Gore team from the opposing bench.  I found the detail of how Bush prepared for the debates to be insightful, especially now that he has been in office for four years.  Plus all the nit picking rules that go into the actual debate set up are well worth your time (one has thoughts of Koran peace treaty negotiations).  I thought the other section of the book that was not only humorous, but also very telling was the comments on how the Bush team thought Gore was doing.  The Bush team, as well as almost political junky in American, just could not understand how Gore could let a huge lead in the polls and all the history, economic prosperity and peace advantages he had slip away.  Gore's mistakes are detailed in the book and it really goes to show you how a bad team can make all the difference in a campaign.    <br /> <br />Overall I liked the book.  It is not a complete view of the campaign, only the view from the Bush team.  It does not really cover the recount drama and could not be used as the end all be all of year2000 campaign books.  But what is does do is entertain the reader and give him or her a few insights.  I think the only negative I could find in the book was the author kind of let his hair down on the last few pages and took a number of shots at all things Democratic.  It seamed like some sour grapes at the end and the book would have ended just as well without it.  Then again I would assume this was a little preaching to the choir from the author.  If you are a huge fan of president Bush then this book will be a nice read for you.   If you are a rabid Gore supporter then I would suggest looking else where.	2005-02-13
352786:US	41012519	R15I9QH3ZMS7Z1	0743212495	866068158	The New Face of War: How War Will Be Fought in the 21st Century	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Two Faces Of The Book	At the risk of being repetitive, I too will comment on the fact that the title of the book and the dust jacket description seem to be two to three steps removed from the actual writings of the author.  Now it could be that I had an unfair expectation, but I expected the book to focus more on how the military uses the new technology available to it to fight wars.   I was looking for detailed explanations about how a military unit goes into to battle and fights.  With this said the book offered more of a last 50 years review of how technology has changed the way we plan for war, build and buy weapons systems, and overall espionage.  An interested topic, but not one that was advertised. <br /> <br />I do not read a vast number of these types of books so the rather high level review of many of the topics was enough for me.  I can see how if you are well read on the topic and / or work in the fields discussed, this book could come across as light weight, but for a novice it was an interesting review of the topic.   The author has a nice light and easy writing style that keeps the reader interested during some entertainingly dangerous technical discussions.   I also really liked the side stories the author peppered through the book about topics as diverse as how this computer was designed or how this bit of espionage trick was created.  I also picked up on a sense of humor that could be described as being influenced by Star Trek conventions and Dilbert books.  Overall I enjoyed the book.  I was disappointed at the misrepresentation of the title and could have done with some more detail, but overall it was an interesting easy book to read. <br />	2005-02-11
359405:US	41012519	R3RRD9YFTEZG9N	0876091168	238376660	The Imperial Temptation: The New World Order and America's Purpose	Books	4	0	0	N	N	That Vision Thing	This book covers the first Bush administration and the foreign policy decisions they took around the end of the cold war and the Gulf war.  The book covers the authors views as to what the U.S. should and should not do as far as aggression across the globe.  I must say that I found this book more interesting reading it now, after the second Bush's first term and the Iraqi war.  There were so many parallels in what the authors are concerned about and what has taken place over the past four years that one would have thought the book was written in 2004 and not 1992.  Basically, the authors felt that the fist Bush administration was too eager to send the military off to do the job that the diplomats should have been doing.   An interesting view given that most people view the first President Bush as one of the stronger Presidents in the area of Foreign Policy and diplomacy that we have had over the past few decade's.     <br /> <br />Given the climate today the authors took some rather interesting positions that today would be met with a mixture of contempt and adoration from both sides of the political isle.  They are dead set against preemptive war and want the U.S. to fall back to more of a isolationist position, at least in regard to military action.   They argue that this is keeping with what the countries founding fathers would have done.  They also think the UN should be the body used to work through these type of international disputes.  But in a fit or either hard edged pragmatism or just plain ruthlessness, the authors argue that once we were engaged in the Gulf war the only logical outcome was to go all the way to Baghdad and oust Saddam.         <br /> <br />Overall the book is interesting and presents its arguments is a well thought out and calm if not cautious way.  This is not one of the many over dramatic, shout at each other type of political book that is so common today.  These two authors are college professors and reading the book you did get the feeling of a senior level class room lecture.  This is my one complaint, the book was written far to dry to gain wide acceptance among general readers.  Unless you are truly interested in the topic, I would assume the general reader would put the book down after the first chapter thinking it was too dense.	2005-02-06
360284:US	41012519	RJ0SFH8W7L1AI	0871139111	474618201	Thunder Run: The Armored Strike to Capture Baghdad	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Full Blown Thunder Storm	In my opinion this is one of the best combat books I have read.   I would rank it up there with Black Hawk Down and We Were Soldiers Once.  The book is just a thrill ride.  The actions starts on page one and just does not let up.  I do not know what surprised me more, the raw excitement the author conveys or the fact that such a violent running battle took place.  The author does a great job of combining the action with the back ground of the men involved and their equipment.  He keeps the story rolling even when there would naturally be a slow down in the action. The author covers the first armored \\"thunder runs\\" into Baghdad during the recent war.   He was an embedded reporter and judging from the book he had one heck of a ride.   <br /> <br />The author found the perfect balance between the action and describing the interesting details that make the story memorable.   How the tanks operate, what the soldiers and Iraqi's were wearing, the effects of the ammunition had on buildings or people.  It all came together to produce an excellent telling of this part of the story, but also just how violent and fast paced modern warfare is.  I kept asking myself why I had not heard about this battle in more detail before reading the book.  How could this much violence not have made it to the TV news?  About the only gripe I would have with the book is that the author did not include any pictures.  Ok I know this is a minor issues, but it would had added just that much more to an already excellent book.   If you are interested in combat, modern warfare and the Iraqi war then this book really is a must read.	2005-02-05
367761:US	41012519	R1UQJ8MGJEKTDA	158322601X	828517158	The Oh Really? Factor: Unspinning Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly	Books	5	16	29	N	N	The Most Ridiculous Item To Date	This book is like going to a fast food restaurant, it is fast, cheap and tasty yet you know the nutritional value is not the best.  If you have found your way to this book you probably already have your mind made up that Bill O'Reilly is not your cup of tea.  I found this book after reading the authors other book on Rush, which was not half bad.  Basically what you get with this book is the authors attempt to classify O'Reilly inconsistencies with either the facts or his other musings.   I think a fair review of the book would find that it is not really a negative attack on Bill, other then a few funny shots at his ego. It simply takes statements he  has made over the years and then spells out the truth of the matter. <br /> <br />I am not a fan of Bill O'Reilly, thus my book choice, so reading books like this that spell out many of his errors are just a laugh a minute to read.  Other then the fact that you have to read many of his outrageous and somewhat bombastic comments, the book is easy to read and fast paced.  The authors list out their sources and from where the O'Reilly comment came from. I guess my only complaint with the book is that given many of the O'Reilly comments were simple sentences, a Bill O'Reilly supporter could always make the claim that the comment was taken out of context. To avoid that I would have liked the authors to add a bit more of the Bill's words before and after the comments. Yet this is a small complaint on my part and does not really take away from the enjoyment of the book.  <br /> <br />I felt the authors could have given us a bit more.  With the amount of air time Bill has, surly the authors could have come up with another  pages of errors. The one thing that I did hit my limit on was that toward the end of the book I kept hearing Bill in my head and after about 100 pages, it was all I could stomach. Overall the book was a nice time waster, not too heavy and fast and easy to read. Did it provide any deep thought or interesting conclusions about the effect Bill O'Reilly has on the current Republican Party or the public as a whole, no. It just laid out many of his more bone headed comments. Would this book change any minds, again I doubt it.  If you dislike O'Reilly or just disagree with a number of his positions then you will get a kick out of the book.	2005-01-30
367772:US	41012519	R26BE52BIIO07X	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	5	12	16	N	N	More Correctly Described As Wobbling	I normally do not read books like this and the reason I say that up front is to put my review in context for you. I was interested in the book because of the dust jacket claims about the authors attempt to understand the one point in time and factor that pushes some things, say the sale of shoes or the crime rate, from average to over whelming.  On the face of it an interesting premise and one, which I felt, would have a good amount of drama attached to it.   The author also selects a wide variety of topics, from crime rates decreasing to syphilis rates increasing, from children's to theories to skate boarder shoe sales.  Overall an interesting and unique book. <br /> <br />The one item I was not expecting was the amount of scientific detail that is covered in the book.  By this I do not mean a review of the periodic table, but one of studies being reviewed to help support the authors main thesis.  For me this would normally be a recipe for dissatisfaction, but the author pulled it off in an interesting and non scientific way.  I not only was engaged by the authors review of this study or that one, but I came away with a good understanding of how it fit into the overall books theme.  I guess my only point of disappointment came from my expectation that the tipping points were going to be very defined and dramatic events that caused whatever to change.  The book did not have this drama because it does not happen that fast in real life, so my disappointment is based on an incorrect expectation on my part. <br /> <br />Overall I enjoyed the book.  Some of the explanations went about % further then I needed, but I chalk that up to the need of scientists to over prove theories in relation to documenting them for a general audience book.  The topics covered were interesting and many times I ended a page with an \\"oh that's how that works\\" type moment.  I guess my only warning is that there is no Hollywood style dramatic cliff hangers in this one, just interesting explanations of everyday events told with a heavy helping of scientific detail.	2005-01-30
368928:US	41012519	R19KY6IMDIABK	068486813X	602046440	The Breach : Inside the Impeachment and Trial of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Breach Too Far	I am always a little hesitant to pick up a book on the impeachment or any troubles that Bill Clinton had because they are usually so partisan on one side of the story or the other.  The number of books that try to stay in the middle and give a fair telling of the story is a somewhat limited group.  This book has to be the gold standard for fair and impartial reporting.  The author tells a story that is both infuriating and disappointing all at the same time.  He does a good job of detailing out the sometime rabid prosecution of President Clinton and the rather slimy way the Democrats and Clinton got himself out of trouble.  I kept looking for any bias on the authors part, especially when he was covering areas I did not feel too comfortable in reading and I just could not find any. <br /> <br />I have always enjoyed the way Bob Woodward tells a story with all the detail.  The reason I bring it up is that this author comes close to the Woodward standard.  I say comes close as he has not mastered the technique of impartial, detail soaked story telling with a touch of drama.  The detail was here but it did get a bit dry at times.  This is a minor point as the few parts of the book I felt were a bit slow were few and far between.  The author also gives the reader a nice inside look at the process.  Who did what and when.   I enjoyed the detail as to what the members of Congress were doing and saying.  Who would have thought some many Democrats were so upset and so many Republicans were on the fence as to if the trail was right.  About the only area that put a smile on my face was the actions of the Chief Justice.  From the yellow arm bands to the poker playing, it was all humorous and remarkably common activity. <br /> <br />The book ends with a small side story of who the only winner was in the whole mess.  Hilary Clinton is about the only one who came through this process with something better.  Even here the author stayed above the fray and gave us a straight tellingof this briefly touched on topic.  What I find ironic is that Bill Clinton wanted nothing more then a strong legacy and to be remembered positively in the history books.  The impeachment trial grantees that an average President that would be relegated to the mediocre pile is forever going to be brought up in history as one of the few Presidents to be impeached primarily due to partisan politics.	2005-01-29
382400:US	41012519	R1ERKC5IJ2FLWC	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Get Your War On	My cheeks are sore from the non stop slapping this author gave me as I read the book.  During the whole book, the author wrote with such unrelenting force that I felt as though he had burst into my home, grabbed me by the lapel and was shaking me so hard I had drool running down my face.  I thought the  author was going to spend the whole book carping about the Bush team and how they have handled the war on terror.  I tend to like that sort of book so that story line was what I had in mind.  No such light review of the facts crosses this books pages.  The author tells the reader up front, very clearly and in no uncertain terms where the U.S. has gone wrong with the war on terror and what we need to do to correct the ships course, all of this without really blaming President Bush.    <br /> <br />The author thinks the war in Afghanistan and Iraq have been disasters and that the overall war on terror is being directed by the B team.  He is not after Bush, but the level of cabinet Secretaries, military leaders and intelligence staff that should know better and really are falling down on the job.  I must admit that I am receptive to this authors story, a case of preaching to the choir, so it should not be that much of a surprise that I felt the author hit the nail on the head.  Outside of some widely disbursed victories, it looks like the current war on terror is more of a Chinese fire drill then a well planned and run military campaign.  Most Americans know more about the color coded threat system that means nothing to the average Joe then what is truly driving the people out to kill us.  And the current military action looks more like a bulls eye audition tape then the drive to victory we all were told was coming.       <br /> <br />To say that this author grabs your attention just does not convey the sharpness of his message, no it is more like he runs up to you and administers a quick knee to the groin and a punch to the nose.  I do not think if you are left or right, you can argue with his points.  And for those that think any and all criticism of the war on terror is the mark of a Democrat, read this book.  This guy is more of a Republican then I have heard speak publicly in a long time.  I do not know how he did it, but he some how worked into a chapter about killing as many \\"terrorists\\" and there kind as possible, a plug for drilling for oil in Alaska.  This guy is all American and I felt he wrote this book more out of dismay and disgust at our current situation then anything else.  Overall I enjoyed the book and felt I learned even more.  If you are interested in current events then you will get a lot out of the book.  Just be fair warred that it is not walk in the park, this author is brutally honest and a bit grumpy.	2005-01-19
390275:US	41012519	R2NQUZJXLHR1DY	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	34	41	N	N	High Plains Pundit	Having lived over half of my life in Kansas I was drawn to this book like a moth to light.  Throw in the fact that I am a moderate in my political leans and you have a book that I just had to read.  You might also guess that given my back ground and the books focus, any review I will pen will be biases to the positive.   I would say you are right. First off if you live in the Kansas City metro area you need to get this book just for the interesting and insightful comments that author has about the different parts of town and the different population segments.  He hit's the nail on the head so many times that I got home sick by page ten.  The author has such an open and helpful way of describing the place and the people that you not only know it is correct, but you feel it page after page.  Add in the rather interesting and slightly whimsical writing style and you have a very entertaining book.   <br /> <br />For those of you not from Kansas, never fear.  The book does a wonderful job of describing the down home folks view of the state of U.S. politics and why the GOP is moving further and further to the right.  The author does a great job of explaining why so many people are voting against their best interests because of cultural issues.  How has the Republican party been moved past its core political goals and been enveloped by moral issues is the interesting back story of the book.  The way the author detailed out the backlash culture and the comfort of being against something instead of for something  shed new light on why so many conservatives lose sight of their almost libertarian view of government when it comes to overt religious issues.   I can honestly say that this book has made me view some of the conservative talking heads and general public statements in a new and more understood light.  The author even explained that whole evolution being banded from Kansas schools thing.   <br /> <br />Overall I can not say enough positive about the book.  From the interesting writing style and peppy word choice, to the insightful and well thought out commentary, this book is a keeper and well worth your time.  Do not limit yourself by geography.  The comments made in the book provide you an understanding of a cultural phenomena and not just a review of Kansas politics.  Even if your politics is of the GOP variety, put aside your perceived prejudice and dig into the book.  The author does a good job of describing the two different factions within the Republican party and I would think that anyone left of the John Birch Society would find it interesting.	2005-01-12
401486:US	41012519	R36H3MLIJZBAZN	0688158927	830457003	The Black Box: All-New Cockpit Voice Recorder Accounts Of In-flight Accidents	Books	3	19	21	N	N	The Recordings Skip A Beat	I have never thought of myself as a morbid kind of guy, but for some reason I really enjoy books on airline incidents.  I think it is all the very real life or death drama that is part of each of the events.  With that being said I have read any number of these type of books over the years and have come to expect a certain amount of detail with each one.  I found that my expectations were not met with this book.  The format of the book is primarily the actual cockpit voice recordings with a little bit of detail at the start and end of the sequence to set the stage.  The author also inserts a few comments here and there to help the reader to determine what is going on. <br /> <br />What I came away with in the book was a feeling that it was just an average attempt.  The author did present some interesting and not very well reported on incidents as well as some of the more famous.  It was just that he did not put in a lot more effort past the editing.  The comments he did make about the crashes or near crashes were somewhat shallow.  The book did not promise a full blow investigation on each crash, but I would have liked a bit more then just a three sentence explanation and the death toll.  And given that there were so many different aircraft involved I would have liked some consistent basic info on each of the aircraft involved in the reported events.  And would I be considered greedy if I would ask for a few photos? <br /> <br />Overall I found the book to be average.  The cockpit voice recordings are at times dramatic and the actual events are interesting to read about.  It was just that so much more could have been done to make the book a more complete account of these accidents that I finished the book a bit disappointed.  IF this is your first book on the topic then it is probably a nice starting point.	2005-01-04
403327:US	41012519	R3345JMDOPB30L	0671690272	834823479	The Truth of the Matter: My Life in and Out of Politics	Books	2	1	1	N	N	The Truth Hurts	One of the down sides to being a political junkie and having access to Amazon is that you can find and buy almost any book written by anyone that came within 10 feet of the White House.  What happens is that you come across books that you might hold a slight interest in, but due to their relative inexpensive price you go ahead and buy the book.  This book firmly falls into that category.  The author was a long time friend of Jimmy Carters and helped him get into office.  As a reward Carter appointed the author to head the OMB.  Here lies the first two problems with this insiders tail, first the author is a long time friend of the President so no real hard criticism will be forth coming.  Second, he headed the OMB, which is an important position, but lets face it, rather dull.  So dull in fact that the author did not spend more the 50 words talking about anything that he did as the head of the department.  <br /> <br />So we have a book from an inside player in the Carter Administration, that does not really talk about the job he did and due to his personal relationship with the President, does not really give the reader much more then an exaggerated and cherry picked highlight real.  Sure the author put in a few items that he disagreed with the President on, but they seemed minor and forced.  So what do we get, about 35% of the book is the author defending himself on the irregular banking charges that drove him from the OMB job and made his name one of the top 5 names from the Carter years even though he was only in the administration for less then one year.  Yet at the end of the day I really don't know what he was accused of doing.   All I do know is that the author thought it was unfair, that the media hounded him, and that he was acquitted on all counts.  Given that it appears to me that the main focus on the book was for the author to clear his name it would have been nice to provide more detail on the charges. <br /> <br />The last criticism I would want to spell out is that I found the author a bit hypocritical on one point.   He spent a good amount of time talking about how the press was unfair in the way they reported the charges against him and the trial.  I would have to agree that the press can usually trample the weak when it comes to a headline story and the author made a number of good points about putting in print one sided and vague charges.  But then he did the same thing in regards to the Reagan Administration and the October Surprise.  He repeated the accusation that Bill Casey had made a deal with the Iranians to hold on to the hostages until after the election.  This left a sour taste in my mouth, regardless how I feel about the whole hostage / Carter / Reagan issue, for the author to cry fowl on unsubstantiated charges leveled against him and then do the same against others spoke volumes to me about character. <br /> <br />Overall there was not much interesting in the book and I would think that it would only be read by a researcher on the Carter years.  I would pass it by unless you are a die hard political junkie like myself.	2005-01-03
406547:US	41012519	R2WX8R97IPLU7	0060195916	389452453	Chain of Command: The Road from 9/11 to Abu Ghraib	Books	5	21	27	N	N	The Weakest Link	If I had to sum up how I feel about this book in one word it would be Drama.  From the cover art and dust jacket description to the particular writing style of the author, it all adds up to a book that almost had pregnant pauses built into the chapters.  I felt like in stead of reading a book I could have been just as easily in a dark bar with the author breathlessly telling me his story.  He takes on big subjects so there is a built in level of seriousness, but he does tend to write the book to be a bit tense.   He basically follows along the first term of the Bush 2 administration from the 9/11 attacks to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.  The author has always been know as someone who gets the good stories and has excellent connections within the military and this comes through in the book.   <br /> <br /> The author starts the book with a review of the Abu Ghraib prison scandal and to be fair I do not think there were too many unreported items that he details.  As a matter of fact with all the coverage over the summer of the scandal, the book coverage was more of a review.  He then spends a good deal of time talking about the lack of coordinated intelligence and law enforcement issues that were taking place pre 9/11 that is part allowed the terrorists to succeed.   With the 9/11 commission report covering this area in more detail, I felt this area again was more repeat then anything new.    What I did find new was his coverage of the Afghanistan war and the current situation.  He brought up a number of interesting issues and paints a very bleak picture for that part of the world in the next decade.   <br /> <br />The author also gives the reader a lot of info on the Iraq war especially with the original war plan and how the Secretary of Defense was getting his hands dirty with the war planning process.  The author has a straight talking way of presenting information so you know were he sits with each issue and person.  With that said there are few if any peoplein the book that the author has less love for then the Secretary of Defense.  Overall I found the book to be very informative, well written and enjoyable to read.  The picture the author paints is not very pleasant and is backed up by any number of other books and news reporting.   If you are interested in current events and you do not mind books critical of the current administration, then I would suggest this book.   <br />	2004-12-31
408636:US	41012519	R21C15RF2GFJFY	081297476X	656230811	The Bush Survival Bible: 250 Ways to Make it Through the Next Four Years Without Misunderestimating the Dangers Ahead, and Other Subliminable Stategeries	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Surviving The Book Is A Feat	I am going to have to disagree with many of my fellow reviewers here and state that I thought this book was horrible.  My biggest point of disappointment comes from the fact that based on the cover art and dust jacket comments, I thought this book was going to be a humor filled parody type book.   I was looking for laughs on every page and a nice little book to bring a smile to my face.  What I got was equal parts self help guide and thinly veiled complaining that Kerry lost.  The only real bits of humor were the anti Bush jokes sprinkled throughout the book.  The chapters were short, unorganized and written is such a mushy \\"Love All\\" way that there was no way any edgy political humor could crawl out of the muck.      I have no issue with anti Bush books, I have read a number of them and to be fair that is what I wanted from this book.   It was just that the parts that the book did spend on digging at President Jr. were ham handed at best.   I am no fan of the boy king, but devoting a section of the book in describing the few world leaders worse then Bush implies that the author is comparing Bush to figures such as Hitler and Stalin.  This is over the top nastiness that the author does not pull off  in even the most remotely humorous way.  And what was with all the filler chapters, \\"New Drinks\\", \\"Lovable Dogs\\" and \\"Excuses for Being Late to Work\\".  All that these chapters did for me was to get even more displeased with the book.     Overall this is a book that can be easily skipped over.  There are so many funny and insightful books out there that cover Bush 2 that to spend time and money on this one is close to an act that would get your hand slapped.  Reading the Al Franken book a second time is more fulfilling then even skimming this one.   The only reason I am not going to the worst review level is that it did have some funny and new anti Bush jokes.	2004-12-29
409421:US	41012519	R1DH66G1W92KGI	0670044350	382172314	57 Hours: A Survivor's Account of the Moscow Hostage Drama	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Takes Less Time To Read	I must admit that I am a sucker for these type of first hand accounts of true life dramatic events.  I find that the excitement I have for learning about the particular event tends to make up for any short comings the book might have.  So knowing I have this positive bias I have tried to be a bit more level headed with this review.   The book is written by one of the hostages and is only the story from his perspective.  He makes a few attempts to bring in bits and pieces of what the Russian police and military officials were doing, but this effort is very limited.  So limited that is almost made me frustrated that he was not able to include more of this detail.  The author also gives the reader a brief history of the Russian / Chechen war and what life is like in Chechen cities.     <br /> <br />The author produced a book that covers the overall event in a somewhat basic telling.  Not to be too critical, but the fact that this was the authors first attempt at a book is apparent.  It is not that it was bad, it just seemed like it was written like a long conversation you might have had with the author.  I did enjoy his perspective of the event.  He hit on a number of interesting side stories that you would have missed by just reading news footage.  He did a good job in conveying his emotions and the overall event.  I enjoyed the book, and beside my few criticisms here, I would recommend the book.	2004-12-29
410323:US	41012519	R2JW9DHJ7XX71P	1586481878	70481652	One-Car Caravan: On the Road with the 2004 Democrats Before America Tunes In	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Cruse Control Campaigning	I have read a number of these type of \\"On The Trail\\" campaign books and I have found that they usually are focused on how one candidate either won or lost the election.  Sure the books talk about the other candidates, but really just as a side story to give the reader an idea of who the focused on candidate crushed in the primaries.   The author took a different approach the to typical campaign book.  Instead of focusing on the ultimate winner and back filling the book as if the author was always focused on the winner, this author covered the main candidates and stopped at the start of the primary season.  This gives the book a very interesting and even handed feel.  The author did not know who was going to win so he had to give them all equal coverage.     <br /> <br />The author tells us that he purposefully wanted to write a book that would give the reader a little bit more insight into the main candidates before the overly scripted primary battle began.  To be fair to the author he did his best, but every politician is going to be guarded around the press and lets face it, rarely are most candidates much different then the typical person.  In reading these books, I like most readers, is looking for the drama filled moment when it seams like that one decision will change the whole campaign and possibly the history of the U.S.   Well this book does not have the moment and to be fair when do political campaigns really have that one decision.  To win the general election it is a long road with many decisions that total up to the overall outcome.  And at the end of the day all who is to say that all of those decisions add up to be as important as the likeability of the candidate.         <br /> <br />Overall I found this book to be very light hearted and overly positive.  The author gives a nice overview of each candidate as a person and really does not touch on the policies that make the men different.   The author also stayed away from any significant negatives ofthe candidates or their GOP rival.   Given that the book really did not hold itself up to being an in depth view of the candidates differences on the policy front, one can not be too disappointed at the overall lack of depth in the book.  The book is interesting and easy to read.  The author has a unique sense of humor that pops up on every page.  It is a book full of the possible, and like any sports pre season, every team has a shot at the title.   If you are looking for something to put a smile on your face and wash away, at least temporarily, the disappointment of defeat, then this is a good book to pick up.	2004-12-28
410506:US	41012519	R35VQ1O1649Y4D	1402203330	627127633	You Know You're A Republican/Democrat If...	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Guaranteed To Put A Smile On Your Face	I received this book as a gift this Christmas and let me say that is was one of the funniest I have received is some time.  I tend to be what some might call a political junkie and this book takes a nice shot right at the overly partisan and greatly increased sense of importance me and my fellow political geeks have placed on the differences between the Dem's and the GOP.  If you are strongly in the one of two camps and have a thin skin, then you will probably only like half of this book, but if you can sit back and laugh at the extreme view of the political masses today, then this book will put a smile on your face.     <br /> <br />The format is a two sided take off of the funny \\"You know you are a red neck if..\\" series.   If I have one criticism is that the book was just too short.  Thirty minutes is about all you need to read the book and I finished thinking that the author could have done so much more.  For example he stayed away from jokes on any particular political figures.  Then again the books gives you just what it claims, light humor that is perfect for any politically focused friend or family member.  Buy it and prepare to laugh.	2004-12-28
415647:US	41012519	R32SUUPM7N58OS	1560254149	588218166	Forbidden Truth: U.S.-Taliban Secret Oil Diplomacy, Saudi Arabia and the Failed Search for bin Laden	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Over Blown Drama	If you picked this book simply because of the breathless, drama overloaded wording on the dust jacket then you may find the book a bit disappointing. This book originally came out in November of 2001 and in retrospect it might of held information that, at the time, was not widely know.  Fortunately for us yet in detriment to the book, the 9 / 11 panel and the election cycle generated a tremendous amount of detail on the US / Saudi relationship and Bin Laden.  So much of the \\"must read / never before reported\\" parts of the book are now as common as the cold, that the reader today is left wondering what all the fuss was about with the book. The book looks at the vast business dealings the US and Saudi's share, the failed attempts at diplomacy and business between the US and the Taliban pre 9 / 11, and the high lights version of Bin Laden's life.  And given the now crowed field of books covering the same topics, this book seems a little light in the detail to me. <br /> <br />One issue I had with the book was that it was written by a French man.  By this I am not getting on board the anti French bandwagon that has been going on for the past few years.  No, what bothered me was the way the author wrote the book.  I had the opportunity to work with a number of French people in Europe for a few years and most of the difficult personality traits I associated with the French came roaring back to me with this book.  This might be the only book in history where the coma to period count is 3 to 1.  This author never had a sentence with fewer then 20 words and if you are looking for direct fact reporting then look else ware. If there was a way to make anything more complicated and drawn out then the author grabbed at it with gusto.  There is not a straight line in the book, it almost reads like a contract full of legal speak designed to confuse and annoy. What you end up with is a book that takes more work to get through then the factual pay off is worth. <br /> <br />Overall Iwas disappointed.  The facts are a bit dated at this time and there is not enough broad detail to make up for it.  The writing style is difficult to get through until you become accustomed to it.  On the plus side there is an interesting look at the financing aspect of the Bin Laden network and the authors remained above name calling and Bush bashing.  And like your average French man, the unique style and slightly Royal attitude begins to grow on you so that by the end of the book you appreciate the differences instead of being frustrated by them.  If you are going to read one book on this subject I would not suggest this be it, but if you are really interested in finding out everything you can about Bin Laden then this book does offer some interesting bits on his family and their finances.	2004-12-22
419700:US	41012519	R23T9AR4P4IVSP	089526126X	359793874	Speaker: Lessons from Forty Years in Coaching and Politics	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Speaker, Not A Writer	<br />I tend to read a lot of political books from both sides of the political spectrum by both politicians and pundits.  Due to this I find myself holding these books up against each other in comparison.  This comparison process leads me to the less then perfect score I would give this book.  The author admits in the first part of the book that he is not much of a reader nor author and tends to almost exclusively rely on verbal communication.  Given that he is a politician that is probably not all that bad.  Unfortunately for the reader, this lack of experience with the written word tends to lend its self to a somewhat bland and simple story.  Just to be clear, I am not attacking the man, just the writing style he uses.  And to give him credit, he did not employ a high profile ghost writer to basically write the book like so many of his cohorts tend to do.  He states his story with a down home style that is simplistic in the word choice and is rather shallow in detail. <br /> <br />With this criticism said I did find one aspect of his book very pleasing.  Unlike so many books of the type, he kept the personal attacks out of the book and remained above the nasty level of partisanship that is all the rage in Washington now.  Admittedly this was a surprise to me, I half picked up the book just to read the assumed sniping and caustic shots he would take at the Democrats.  This is not to say that he does not let you know how he feels about the leaders of the other party, in very respectful ways he lets you know that he disagrees with the Democratic platform and almost all of their standard bearers.  He did liven it up a bit in the last chapter when he starts to lay out his plan for a GOP utopian dream.  He throws some punches, but they are almost good natured considering what is said on any given Sunday morning via the talking head shows.  He also did a bit of complaining at the end that rang hollow to me given the issues he was so concerned about happen on both sidesof the political spectrum.  <br /> <br />Overall I found the book average.  It lacked real depth to offer anything more then a high level view of the last few years in the house.  The book reminded me of an after work  conversation with friends on how an average work day went.  The author did not take the opportunity to fully explain or expand on his political views other then to let you know he was a Republican.  I came away thinking that he was going to do whatever the President asked him to do instead of fighting for what was the best for the people of his state.   I do give him some credit for putting out a most positive book, especially in today's political climate.  It is easy to read and moves at a fast clip.  If you are a GOP'er and are not looking for anything that digging too deep into the mundane inter working of the house, then you would probably enjoy this book.                <br />	2004-12-18
422492:US	41012519	R3QOX0P5UV2QWH	0395710839	966427024	Crusade: The Untold Story of the Persian Gulf War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Exciting And Well Written	I am ashamed to admit that this excellent book sat on my bookshelf for a number of years while I read untold numbers of lesser books.  I had heard it was a good book, which was the reason I purchased it, and it turns out that everything positive that lead me to buy the book was in fact true.   The first thing that stood out for me was that this author is very good at his craft.  I almost forgot I was reading a non fiction book at times because his writing style provided the excitement and richly detailed descriptions that you would normally associate with a fiction book.  The author details the Gulf War in such a way that almost exclusively focuses on the actual war and not the lead up to the combat nor the political efforts that played out.  He does touch on some political aspects, but only when they are needed to augment the readers understanding of what was happening in the war theater.   <br /> <br />The one interesting side story in the book was the authors dislike for Norman Schwarzkopf.  The critiques were always within the realm of how he did his job, but there was just something about them that let the reader in on the fact that not too many people that worked with the General much cared for his management style.  Other then this slight bias the author stuck to the facts and really gave the reader a good amount of detail on the war effort.  It was interesting to read of the many battles.  I have read a number of books about different aspects of the war, but this was the first one that really covered all the major battles and I came away surprised at some of the scale that was described.  We have all heard that the war was a complete and overwhelming victory, but that positive view hides some of the very violent and large battles that took place. <br /> <br />Overall I really enjoyed the book.   The author did a wonderful job and I can honestly say that this is one of the better combat books that I have ever read.   The details were never ending and the writing was crisp and well thought out.  If you are interested in the war then this has to be the one book your read if you are interested in the combat.  The only partial critique I would make is that the author spent the vast amount of his time talking about the American military and really did not cover much of what was happening with the other countries involved.  Given the size and responsibilities of those other forces, this focus on the U.S. is understandable.	2004-12-15
435357:US	41012519	R3OHZKJ9KMT7SJ	0670032735	748219420	The Book on Bush: How George W. (Mis)leads America	Books	5	15	22	N	N	On The Far Right Wing And A Prayer	Through this whole book, I was impressed by these authors restraint.  They steered clear of off handed and juvenal remarks about President Jr.  They stuck to a just the facts type of reporting and left the name calling to pundit crowd.  This impressed me even more given that at least one of these authors, if not both have been roundly criticized by the far right and painted with the now too familiar anti American label basically because they dare to look past the surface on the current administration.  The authors take the Bush presidency on one issue at a time and they painstakingly cover each mistake and policy decision and the effects they have on the country.   <br /> <br />What impressed me was the clear and steady march the authors took in revealing the Bush administration missteps.  One area that might leave the average anti Bush book reader a little disappointed with was the no-nonsense approach the authors took.  One might even call it dull, but they just did not stoop down to any name calling or cheep shots.  I always like a fair and balanced book , but even I was wanting them to take a cheap shot or pointed barb here and there.  With the authors taking this high handed review, it sometimes came off a little pompous.  Regardless of this slight criticism, this book was even handed and I think fair.   The authors tell you right up front that they think the Bush team has made a number of mistakes and they then spend the next 300 pages detailing them out.    <br /> <br />Given the large population of anti Bush books I have read, it is my opinion that this one falls into the top tier.  It provides a large amount of detail and does not spend a lot of time on minor issues.  The book probably would have been better served if the authors would have included maybe one of two items that they felt the President handled well, because it does seem to be a bit of a piling on about 200 pages into the book.  Then again these types of book are usually meant to bolster a persons opinion and not create a fair historical look.   Overall the book was well written, interesting and not overly negative.  It had a tendency to get dry about the mid point of each chapter, but always finished strong.  If you are an avid reader of this topic or if you are just getting started, this book is a nice addition to your collection.	2004-12-04
442534:US	41012519	RT7C1IMD63YTE	0465091121	297359242	Rising Tide: The Untold Story Of The Russian Submarines That Fought The Cold War	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Does Not Lift All Boats	When I first started on the book I found that it captured my interest right away.  The authors had a confidence that came through in the writing that made you believe everything they were saying.  The book attempts to tell the story of the Soviet Unions submarine fleet from its start pre World War Two through the cold war.  In order to do this they used both written works and a number of interviews with former sailors that where there when the action was going on. For the most part they cover the interesting events like crashes or major exercises or events.   They spend time on the Cuban missile crises that provided me with some interesting and before unknown details about what the Soviets were doing with their subs during the event.    <br /> <br />The problem I had with the book is that that the authors did not good a very good job of covering any aspect of the book.  They almost did not touch on the life of a navy man in the USSR or how they got into the subs.  They also did a poor job at covering in any detail USSR verses USA cold war action.  The events that they covered the most outside of the Cuban missile crises had a distinct USA tint to the reporting.  The details of the crashes was not in any sort of order, it seemed like they threw them in here and there.  Plus the detail of the crashes was somewhat lacking.  They did not do any of the events justice.   The book ends with a review of the Krusk event and again they did report some interesting info from the Russian side, but it was diminished by the overall skimming of the story. <br /> <br />Overall I thought the book was just average.  The writing was good and the authors come across like they know what they are talking about.   A number of the stories are interesting, it is just that as a full history it is lacking.  I do given them a little slack, given the USSR / Russia's view toward public viewing of military information, the authors probably did the best they could at times.  The disappointing thingfor me is that I have read other books on some of the events covered in this book and a lot of the missed detail in this book is in the public arena.	2004-11-28
443858:US	41012519	R2R3OI5KS6WOMY	0671673394	84003896	The Clothes Have No Emperor: A Chronicle of the American '80s	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Did This Really Happen?	Maybe it was just me, but when I purchased this book on line I assumed it was going to be a book, you know the type with chapters and well thought out paragraphs. What I got was a book that is made up of day by day humorous quotes from the news sources of the time.  So I was a little disappointed at the start just because my expectation was not met.   With that out of the way I dug in and found the book provided a number of laughs and brought back a number of memories.  The author picked up on mostly political issues to populate the book, but he does toss in a few pop culture items that usually show the ridiculous side of American life.   The humor the author uses is rather dry and sarcastic, which fit very well with the news reporting style blurbs.    <br /> <br />Overall the book is an easy to read, fun review of the 1980's that brought back a lot of memories for me.   The author does tend to focus on a small group of topics, Geraldo Rivera, his dislike of popular music and Michael Jackson all seem to get repeated mentions.  The book is the type you can have around and pick up every now and then and read a few pages.  It is light fair and shows a 10,000 feet view of the 80's.	2004-11-26
445669:US	41012519	R2B6XBTSTMVVQV	0385506724	283863984	A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq, and the Abuse of America's Intelligence Agencies	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Truth, War and Presentations	On the face of it this is the type of book that I would usually give a bad review for.  Its over promise and under deliver dust jacket description and the jerky subject matter layout make it somewhat aggravating to read.  On the other hand what is detailed is so interesting and well written that I found I really enjoyed the book.  The book is basically three different books, a review of the 9 / 11 event, a review of why the NSA and CIA had fallen on their faces so badly with the terrorist attacks, and the lead up to the Iraq war.  On any of the three subjects I can point you to books that do a better job of detailing out each topic, but I have to give the author credit, he knows how to write in a way that brings excitement to each page.  <br /> <br />I read the authors other book on the NSA and it was so detailed and well written that I expected this book to be the same.   Maybe this was an unrealistic assumption, but if you are coming to this book after reading his last be warned that this book does not have the detail of his last.  With that said, he does get high marks for what he chooses to put in the book.  For example, he covers a number of aspects of the 9 / 11 attack that I have not read in other books including what was going on in the military command structure and NORAD during the attacks, a good amount of detail about what the 911 calls from the towers were detailing and probably the full story of the Air Force pilots that were sent into the air on that day.   <br /> <br />The best part of the book and probably the most juicy as far as gossip goes in the detail he shares about the pre UN preparation that Colin Powell went through.  The author had a heck of a good source because there is a enough detail to make Woodward jealous.  The creation of the presentation sounded like a multiple day dog fight with Colin Powell getting brow beet into making a presentation that only your mother or a neo-conservative would love.  I bet you that this is the most interesting review of those meeting we will get until Powell writes his own book on the matter.  Overall I enjoyed the book a good deal.  I was disappointed with the amount of detail on each topic, but it worked out well all together.  If you are interested in the topic then you will enjoy this book.	2004-11-24
452927:US	41012519	RGPDEOTTQKBX5	1585423424	286855196	Banana Republicans: How the Right Wing is Turning America Into a One-Party State	Books	5	21	26	N	N	A Gorilla In The China Shop	If ever there was a book that screamed the old clich not to judge a book by its cover this is it.  What were these guys thinking putting this comical and some might say juvenal cover on a book that begs to be taken seriously is beyond me.  I read this book because of an accident, I picked up and read the authors other work on the Iraq war thinking it would be a sharply pointed stick in the eye of the Bush administration based on the doggy cover art.   It turned out to be a well written and serious book.  I then decided to give this book a try, hoping that this book would also fall in the must read category based on substance.  It turns out I was lucky again, this book is a well written and adequately deep look at how the right wing of the GOP has taken over, step by step, many of the opinion making organs of the U.S. media and thought industry. <br /> <br />The book hits all the high points of the GOP grand plan, from a look at the gerrymandering that the Democrats have allowed to happen, to the ever increasing conservative media and the far right think tank machine that is mixing corporate and political access at an accelerated pace.  Step by step the authors detail out what has happened over the last 35 or so years that leaves you with no doubt how we have come to this current political position.  Reading the book you want to keep hitting your forehead and exclaiming Of Course.  The one question I had at the end of the book was are the Democrats that stupid to sit back and let this happen to them or were the Conservatives just that smart.  Either way the future is looking a far bit more dogmatic then most people might be comfortable with. <br /> <br />A nice book to accompany this one would be The Republican Noise Machine by David Brock.  It covers many of the same topics as this book, but with more detail.  The advantage of this book is that the authors really do try and keep the reporting as fair as possible.  I have a read a good number of anti Bush rant books, and these authors steer clear of the cheep pot shots and name calling that even Brock succumbed to using.  Overall I enjoyed the book.   It comes across as an even handed and calm look at the topic.  The authors could have gone deeper into the sections of the book, but the reader gets a good broad view with what is provided.  If you are interested in the rise of the GOP to the almost total control they now have, this is a good starting point.	2004-11-17
456521:US	41012519	R3T3GXYOJY3PLG	0743233247	512466969	American Jihad: The Terrorists Living Among Us	Books	3	28	46	N	N	The Details Are Still Hidden	I finished this book with two overriding feelings, disappointment and confusion.  I was disappointed in the book and its reporting and I was confused over the tempest in a tea pot up roar over the supposed anti Muslim \\"racism\\" supposedly detailed in the book.  According to the dust jacket, this book sets out to describe the militant Islamic terrorist networks that seem to be littered across America and just how difficult it will be get rid of them.  The author starts the book by telling us that he has spent the last ten years studying this topic and has had a staff of any where from 2 to 20 working with him.  He also takes every opportunity possible to work in that he has also made a documentary covering the topic of the book.   So I am thinking that with all this time, staff and material for a movie the book should be a jam packed treasure chest of what is going on in the States in regard to Islamic terrorist organizations.  Well, either the author is not much of a reporter or we can all rest a little easier, because the book is just a bit light on the details and does not describe much of a threat.   <br /> <br />Sure the author details out a few men here and there that had something to do with Islamic terrorism, but the only group he covers that really appeared to be somewhat dangerous and motivated were the group responsible for the first World Trade Center bombing.  That being the case, there are many other books out there that cover this topic much better and in far more detail.  Most of the rest of the bad guys detailed in the book are all practicing their nefarious trade craft in the Middle East.  Not terribly dangerous to Mr. and Mrs. Joe Six Pack in the mid west.  The area I felt the author hit the mark on the best was with his coverage of the many different Islamic charities that operate in the U.S. and the damage that can be caused by this fountain of money flowing back to the Middle East.  Yet here again the danger is off shore, similar to the funding the IRA got in the 70's and 80's.      <br /> <br />Lastly, I was confused as to where all the supposed anti Muslim reporting was in the book.  Both in reading some reviews and in a few other books, it has been reported that this book paints an unfair if not down right racist view of Islam in American.  I found just the opposite.  This author was forever inserting in to each chapter that Islam is a religion of peace and that just of few radicals have taken it to an extreme.  He then offers up one chapter on his Islamic hero's.  Even without this pandering, I thought the book was fair.  The most damaging words come not from the author, but by interviews many of the people detailed in the book make.   You just can not spin it away when someone says that all Jews need to be eliminated.   <br /> <br />Overall I was disappointed with the book.  It reminded me a of college student tiring to get the required length of a report by increasing the font, shrinking the margins and adding in long winded and off topic quotes to beef up page count.  The book offered too little detail on the main theme of Islamic terrorists in the States and not enough to be a good broad overview of the problem.	2004-11-14
457463:US	41012519	R1VXHQALLGXMK5	1400048753	386400734	The Republican Noise Machine: Right-Wing Media and How It Corrupts Democracy	Books	4	11	14	N	N	White Noise	This author provides not only a view of the current state of the news media and the shift to the right, but also a history starting in the late 1950's of the rise of conservative America's focus on getting its message out to the public.  Where he can he tried to detail out the history of a particular part of the media market from television to newspapers.  The author has provided a book that is the roadmap that was used by the right wing ideologs to shift public opinion or take advantage of a nature shift, to the right.  He details it all, from the start of public interest groups and think tanks, to newspaper and magazines to talk radio and cable news. He hits on every name you would associate with the right and media and he does it all in a very organized and concise manner.         As you read the book and take in the very logical method that the right has used to shape public opinion, you catch yourself saying it all seems so logical.  How did this happen under our noses and so visible?  The methods used are so basic that you know the game plan could fall out of a hundred history books.  This is how public opinion is shaped and this is how the left will need to counter attach if they want to add value to the public discourse.  To be fair, I found the historical data a bit dry and unnecessary.  Anything older the 1980 was just so out of touch with today's issues that I wished the author would have left it out of the book.   All it did for me was to slow down the book and add sections that less determined readers would skip.       The mot enjoyable section of the book was the last half when the author got into the media issues of the 1990s through today.  I must admit that I like reading anything that takes Rush to task or gives the folks over at FOX a hard time.  This author has loads of details that make the left leaning of us rub our hands together in glee.  My only concern was the his writing style lacks the zip of some of the other books on the right wing media that have come out over the last year.  Yes this book had entertaining sections, it was just that it needs about 10% more to be truly top tier in the entertain section of rating.  Overall I enjoyed the book.  If you are looking for details on how the right is shaping the public perception then this book gives you all you need to know.  The only issue for me was that at times it as a bit dry and difficult to get through.	2004-11-13
465607:US	41012519	R11U86I31Z7HDJ	0670827339	368236269	Warts and All: The Men Who Would Be Bush	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The 1988 Election	Unlike the latest election, the 1988 election season started with a free for all on both sides.  A set of primaries that had up to 15 men going after each other with all the strength they could muster.  This author takes a look at the 1988 election starting with the primaries and following straight through to the election.  The overall focus of the book is the ultimate winner, George Bush so most of the reporting is about him.  The author has also chosen to take a more light hearted and outside the process view approach to his book.  The author is from the United Kingdom and thus is in possession of a deadly dry wit and just a bit of a superiority complex that comes out in very funny and sharp prose.   <br /> <br />It is also interesting that the author tries to insert a common theme through the book that the election somehow became the choice between Mr. Dull and Mr. Duller.  He just did not like either candidate much although to be fair to Michael Dukakis, the author presented that George Bush was fair more distasteful the most any other choice.  I also liked the grief the author gave to his fellow reporters.  You could tell he took a particular joy in outing all the lame, go for the headline reporting that takes place.  He shows the reader, in his offbeat way, just how a 30 minute speech with some detail can be boiled down to a comment on the issue, or more accurately, up roar of the day.    <br /> <br />About the only thing negative I can say about the book is that it is a one sided and light overview of the campaign.  It leaves the reader wanting more of the details.  The author took on so many different aspects of the campaign that he could not dig too deep into any one of them.  Then again the book is a humor based book so how much detail can the author put in the book and maintain the tone.  Overall the book is a humorous and quick read that will leave you with a smile on your face.  If you enjoy political campaign books then this is a nice find from the past.	2004-11-06
471603:US	41012519	R1J11QA7AB2CO9	0393326713	424289102	The 9/11 Commission Report: Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (Authorized Edition)	Books	5	18	50	N	N	A Good Review of The Topic	I bought this book probably for the same reason that many people did.  The event was such a historical marking point in our time that I almost felt that I had an obligation to read the official report.  I was concerned that a government panel made up of politicians might do a good job at holding hearings, but a lousy job at basically writing a non fiction book.  To their credit they found some good staff writers to pull all the facts together in a very readable form.   I had also made the assumption that the book was just going to be about the 9/11 event and the details of the terrorists leading up to that day.  I was happy to find that the book also covered a nice basic primer on why there is this group of people out for the destruction of America, and a good overview of the government agencies and other countries that are involved in this complex subject.  The book also ends with a number of recommendations as to what the government needs to start doing to better protect us. <br /> <br />It has been reported before about the number of chances that the US missed to stop all or part of the attackers and just how confused the situation was that day.   What the book does in a very detailed way is to pull together the full time line of the day and to show the reader just how unprepared we were for anything of this nature.   I also came away from the book disappointed that we had built such big government law enforcement and intelligence gathering organizations that basically were more concerned with territory grabs and autocratic infighting then providing an effective combined effort at keeping us safe. I also enjoyed the detailed reporting of some of the more political issues that have been in the press, the Al Queda / Iraq connection to name one.    <br /> <br />The books most interesting section for me was the detail of the rescue effort at the World Trade Center during the event.  Again they do a very good job of spelling out the events in a well organized and easyto follow time line.  I also almost hesitate to describe the reporting as exciting, but you can feel the urgency and magnitude of the event in the reporting even with the authors sticking to a just the facts writing style.  The book ends with a list of suggestions that the committee believes the US should investigate.  What struck me was just how common sense all of the suggests were and I kept think why are we already not doing this?  Overall the book was very interesting and well worth the time.  I have read a number of books on the subject and I think that if you are looking to find one book on the topic then this should be it.	2004-10-31
474788:US	41012519	RHEFWKG9HSR0O	1592230636	364285316	The Democratic Party: A Photographic History	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Peoples Party	Most people normally read non-fiction books that interest them and if the topic of the book is the history of one political party, I would bet the reader is almost always sympathetic, if not a strong supporter, of the party the book is written about.  I fall into that category so I know that I come to this review with a bit of bias toward the book.  Given that I am interested in the topic and consider myself a Democrat, you would probably assume that any review of write will just be full of  glowing rubber stamp comments in support of the book.  You are not that far off.  I did really enjoy this book.  Lets face it, a coffee table book is meant to be showy, engaging and full of attractive and interesting pictures.  This book fits that bill, but it was more then just 8 by 10 glossies of party men.   The book has a solid overall history of the Democratic party to start with and a nice running commentary of each 20 year period of the twentieth century. <br /> <br />I guess what I liked most is what the book set out to deliver, which is a nice collection of positive and dramatic pictures that tell the story of the Democratic party.  Or at least the story a proud Democrat would want to tell.  Overall the authors did a great job of presenting the subjects in the best light possible, they even have some flattering pictures of Jimmy Carter.  I do not think you could use this book at a single history of the Democratic party, but it would be a nice start, if not a bit overly positive - the authors do not go out of their way to present the bits that most Democrats would rather forget.  One bit of bias on my part is that I preferred the pictures once the book got into the JFK years and color photography came into fashion.  I enjoyed the book and will find myself flipping through the pages every not and them for years to come.  If you are interested in the Democratic Party then I think you will enjoy this book.	2004-10-28
480106:US	41012519	R3180990S4LKUI	0312329164	278783946	Hunting Down Saddam: The Inside Story of the Search and Capture	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Keep on Hunting	I can honestly say that with each page of the book my disappointment level increased.  I read this authors book on the war in Afghanistan and found that it did provide some interesting, if disjointed stories.  I picked this book up expecting the same.  To be fair, the author of the book really only wrote about a third of it.  For the other two thirds of the book he used diary entries of a FOX news reporter and letters from a solider he befriended along the way.  I would say that probably the best parts of the book are these sections although they really do not hold that much meat.  What I was looking for was a book that detailed out the search and capture / death of Saddam's two son's and Saddam himself.   To my disappointment, the two areas of the book that held the least amount of detail covered the very items I wanted to read about.  What probably upsets me the most is that the book, through its title and dust jacket description, claim to have the story of these captures.  Newspaper articles about the events held more information. <br /> <br />Even with the book providing the good old bait and switch on the Saddam clan adventures, if the remaining 230 pages would have held some detailed and interesting stories about the war in Iraq I probably would not be so disappointed.  The fact is the rest of the book is a jumbled mess that has less clear direction then a toddler roaming around a park.  The plain truth of the matter is that the author is 78 years old and he made mention a number of times that he had difficultly getting around.  With this being the case, he had to rely on others to gather information and frankly they did not deliver.  This author has made a carrier about the access that he was able to obtain through his connection to the soldiers and that is the one area he physically could not muster at this time in his life.  All he had left to offer was his skills as a writer and ability to put the story together and in this regard he fell short.   <br /> <br />Overall I was very disappointed with the book.  The only reason that I am not giving the book a one star rating is that I feel a bit bad beating up on a 78 year old author with Parkinson's disease.  There were also some vaguely interesting stories about the day to day life in Iraq told by a solider, but just not enough to make the book interesting.  I would suggest you continuing looking if you are after the story of Saddam's capture or general fighting in Iraq.  I know I will.	2004-10-23
484365:US	41012519	RDXEN3I5FJ7WV	0465098258	617974713	Dead Right	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Did I Take A Wrong Turn?	There were two reasons I read this book.  The first is that if you read a lot of political books covering the last 20 years then there is a good chance this book as come up in the text.  It always gets good reviews and is held out as the book that will tell you exactly how the far right thinks.  The second reason was that I heard the author speak recently and found him interesting and oddly engaging.  To offer full disclosure I lean a bit left of the moderate political line so my reading of the book was not to reaffirm my beliefs but to explore the views of the author.  Even though I disagree with a number of the authors stances on items I have to give him credit, he is up front about all his views.  In reading the book you really get a sense of the man, maybe even more so then the conservative movement he is describing.   <br /> <br />So the topic of the book is looking at how the Reagan and Bush 1 administrations, although based in conservative thought, moved to a moderate governing style.  The bench mark he primarily bases this theory on is that the size of the federal government has increased over the 12 year Reagan / Bush terms.  The author basically tells us what we know.  And that is it is very difficult to obtain political popularity if you are dishing out harsh medicine.  Of course the Reagan / Bush administrations kept the pork barrel and program growth going, hey it pays the popularity bills.  What I found so stark about this section was just how up front the author was.  Most politicians talk about curbing growth or eliminating waste, key words to do nothing, but Frum goes out there and lays out all the items he would get rid of.   Out with any education assistance, student loans, homeless help, aid to handicapped kids and more, he out did himself with eye opening and very harsh sounding reductions.  Basically his view of the Federal government is that it needs to provide a military, a big one at that, and not much more.     <br /> <br />The author not only opines about budgetary issues, but also about the great right wing moral crusade.  I will let you judge the validity of his arguments, but basically everything wrong with society is due to FDR, LBJ and any and all Democrats.  Somehow a reduction in taxes and government services will help reduce teen pregnancy, drug use and just about anything objectionable.  Overall I found the book interesting and eye opening.   I did find the authors writing style a bit odd at times, the choice of language was unique.  As far as conservative manifestos, I will probably stick with Pat Buchanan going forward as he is a better writer, in my opinion.  If you are a died in the wool GOP'er then this is a nice back to basics type book.	2004-10-19
484652:US	41012519	R3CJLSUD1X9Z9P	0452285194	548504976	White House Inc. Employee Handbook	Books	3	27	35	N	N	Over and Over Again	I normal trust the reviews on Amazon more then I did for this book.  Many of the reviews rate the book as middle of the road yet the web site is so funny, I was sure I would find the book as humorous.  And for the first 30 or so pages I was dead on, it was a laugh riot.  I just kept laughing out loud.  The sly low key and in your face humor was equally side splitting.  The authors were able, at least in the first section of the book, to take the attitude from the web site and use it in this White House employee manual parody.  Unfortunately for me, and I would assume many readers, the fresh, sharp humor started to get stale.  There is only so many times you can beat that horse and they did not stop.  On and on about how the Bush team was out to get richer, destroy the environment and scrap any social program going.      <br /> <br />At about page 100 I started to skip sections and hoped the end was near.  The lack of originality and new material really started to sour me on the whole book and even a bit on the original web site its self.  I am sure that is the exact opposite reaction the authors were looking for.  I also started to get a bit turned off by the rather in your face sexism and not so hidden racism.  I know it was all part of the parody, but is was a bit much.  Lastly the whole pro life / pro choice comments were a bit too edgy for me.  Overall my opinion is that this is a perfect book to pick up used and read a chapter every other month.   The bits you forget will make the book less repetitive and stale.    <br />	2004-10-19
492385:US	41012519	RM5G56NN0SVL8	0316871125	372260453	The Interrogators: Inside the Secret War Against al Qaeda	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The New Front Line	I thought this was a great book.  It covered two areas I have not seen reported much, the war in Afghanistan and the methods the U.S. military uses to interrogate prisoners.  The book is written by an Army reserve NCO who is called up from his accounting job right after 9/11 to help out in Afghanistan.   The book held my interest on every page.  I would agree with another reviewer here that the start of the book, when the author is describing his training, was a bit slow, but interesting none the less.  The author takes us through his training, the call up period and then his time at two separate bases in Afghanistan. The book was wonderfully detailed and had the right mix of day to day descriptions with the tense and exciting interviews with the prisoners.   <br /> <br />I think a good amount of credit needs to go to the professional author that helped out with the book because the two of them do such a good job as describing what are basically discussions.   They made the interrogation process as exciting as a foot soldier would make combat, or at least close.  I bought the book to read about the interrogations, but what was a nice bonus was the detail the author gave us about life on these forward bases and the details he provided about life in Afghanistan.   The bases the author was stationed at were old Russian bases that were completely run down and it was a long time before they were brought up past basic camping like amenities.  Couple the roughing it life style with the extremes in weather and the 18 hour works days they were putting in did not seem the worst of their issues. <br /> <br />What surprised me was just how many low level, know nothing dunces these guys had to interrogate.  In hind sight I must have had the view that only the top guys get caught, but the reality is that an army, any army is made up of a lot of indians and very few chiefs.  It was a credit to the military interrogators that they would spend so much energy on nobody's with no information and have it not effect their moral.  The excitement level of the book did pick up when the author was covering the interrogations of important people.  Unfortunately for the reader, it did seem like the really top dogs were hurried off to Cuba.  The book ended with an interesting review of the authors take on the Abu Ghaib prison scandal and the illegal methods that were used.  Overall I enjoyed this book a great deal.  It is very readable and the pages just melt away in time, you get that absorbed in the book.   I would recommend it to anyone interested in the topic.	2004-10-12
495870:US	41012519	R2QEYSFJZZ3GGC	0670031410	978709002	Thieves in High Places: They've Stolen Our Country--And It's Time to Take It Back	Books	3	3	6	N	N	The Texas Low Down	This was my first book by this author and it will probably be my last. It was not that he does that bad of a job or that his ideas are all that bad, it is just that I have a certain amount of capacity for the liberal folksy Texas populists and I tend to like Molly Ivins to fill it. With that being said I did enjoy parts of the book. This author is his best when he is in full anti Bush rant. He just has some way of making, what amounts to a 50 page complaint session, into a mildly humorous and not very threatening commentary. It must be his Texan down home way of speaking because you know he is mad, it is just that it does not come across and a vain popping, red faced tirade. If you have read more then a few anti Bush books then there is not going to be anything new in this one. The authors hits at Bush on all the standbys, his military service, business life and public service in Texas. He also takes a rather dim view of the political appointments Bush has made and what this group has done during the first two years. Again its the basic Bush detractor play book.  <br /> <br />What the author adds in addition to this is attacks on big business, Wal Mart, environment items and overall Liberal agenda items. Where this author lost me was on many of his attacks on business. I agreed with him when he was giving big CEO's grief about looting their companies and the massive excesses that seem to hit the news. I even gave half an ear to the arguments about outsourcing jobs and the effect that has on the middle class. But the author spent a good deal of time complaining about Wal Mart and its negative effect on communities and their employees. All the author does is complain and I guess try to make some point that the world would be much better if all the chain stores were gone and it was all mom and pop shopping. It sure seamed like the author was flying in the face of reality to think that because Wal Mart might not be a great place to work that they should not be allowed to operate. The author talks about the harsh conditions at Wal Mart and the high turn over, maybe the high turn over is because it is not that great of a place to work and the employees find different and possibly better jobs? Anyway, these type of protectionist retail trade talks do more to drive people away from the Democratic party then anything, how many people want to pay more for basic items just to keep an inefficient store open?  <br /> <br />I guess the last area that I want to comment on is the rather dull and sappy section of the book that I can only relate to as the love everybody and everything section. The author dug into the 1960's feel good liberalism that died a long time ago and does not seem to get much traction now. No matter how much he is going to hope that we all take into consideration the environment and everybody else's feelings with each of our actions, it is not going to happen. What I guess I would have liked a little more of is some insight to W from a fellow Texan and maybe more background when Bush was the Governor of Texas. Overall the book was average. The humor is ok but a little of it goes a long way. There is only so many west Texas analogies involving farm animals that one can take. The political commentary is not overly original and in the very crowded field of anti Bush books you need to shine to really standout. If you are a big fan of the author then you will probably not care what I have to say.	2004-10-09
502399:US	41012519	R14CSRHF7VTE2H	0789481561	686202907	To the Best of My Ability: The American Presidents	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Even A Brief History Shows Warts	If you are looking for a nice, easy to read and somewhat flashy overview book on all the American Presidents then this book should fit the bill.  The book provides the reader with a brief overview of each of the Presidents.  The overview includes details of their life's before they took office and an overview of their administrations.  There are a number of photos in each section and side of the page inserts that hold additional interesting facts.  The book ends with an overview of each election with a run down of what took place in the campaigns and the final vote count.  Within this section are a number of additional pictures of campaign paraphernalia that I really enjoyed.  There is also the inaugural address for each of the Presidents, and if you can get through all of them you have more stamina then I did.  Some of these men were on the long winded side and the advent of professional speech writers has helped the readability of Presidential speeches.   <br /> <br />Each chapter is written by a different American historian who, judging by the biographies in the back of the book, are all well thought off, many the average reader will know by name.  I found it interesting that the book takes a no holds barred approach in its reporting.  The authors are not afraid to call out Presidents that were down right bad and except for a few (Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, TR, FDR and Truman) the authors are a bit harsh.  Then again we expect a great deal from our Presidents so maybe a tough look is needed for a historical overview.  Overall I enjoyed the book for what it was, a brief history of each of the Presidents.  Other then providing the basic facts the best this book will do is direct you to the men you are most interested in for further reading.  I did have a few complaints, the authors did not provide a bibliography or even a suggested reading list at the end of the book and it would have been nice if they could have gathered in a table the complete list for an easy look at the trends that have taken place.	2004-10-03
502815:US	41012519	R1G414OR9M4QO	1893554694	345087233	The War Over Iraq: Saddams Tyranny and Americas Mission	Books	4	17	24	N	N	The View From The Past	I wonder if the authors of this book have since gone back and read it to see how close they came to predicting the reasons for and the outcome of the Iraqi war, or at least its progress up to today?  I admit that one of the reasons I picked up this book was to get a clear view of the pro war crowd thinking and to judge their views with the advantage of hindsight .  I also wanted to read this book because the two authors are both know to excellent writers and not too shabby on the intellectual front.  Yes they are both poster children for very far right conservative thinking, but how else are you to truly understand an issue unless to read all sides of the debate?  Lastly I had heard that if you wanted to get a solid brief explanation of the way the Bush Team thought about the Iraqi war then this was the book to read. <br /> <br />Given that the authors are rather conservation, it was humorous to me, if not totally expected,  that they were able to work in so many digs at all the favorite whipping boys of the right wing in relation to foreign affairs.  Judging by the rhetoric of the book, France will be the next country invaded followed by the UN, the offices of the Democratic party and ending at the office of Bill Clinton.   I wondered if the attacks on this diverse group were truly heart felt or were they just the standard playbook that the authors fell back on out of habit.  What struck me was that about 50% of the authors argument for taking action in Iraq was that it was vital to the U.S. national interests and that the U.S. should do everything it can along these lines, but that the authors felt that France, using the same justification, was somehow beyond the pale and close to a tyrannical world bully.    It was also surprising to me that they complimented the Truman and Wilson administrations so often and tried to tie in what the Bush 2 administration wanted to do in Iraq with what these two leaders did during the World Wars.  I could not tell if they truly felt this way or if they were trying to add some legitimacy to the Bush argument.     <br /> <br />The last section of the book spent a good amount of time beating up on many ex officials of the Bush 1 administration that came out against the war.  The area that, what in hindsight is very ironic, the authors gave these ex officials the most grief on was their predictions of the aftermath of the war.  It turns out that, at the current time, exactly the difficulties that were predicted have come to pass and the rosy predictions of a smooth transition from Saddam to democracy 101 is not taking place.  Overall the book was well written and the views for the pro war constituents are laid out in a logical order.  It turns out that the facts, as they have come out, make about 75% of this book incorrect although I do not think that makes this book any less valuable because it truly is the overview of the war sales campaign.  If I had one complaint of the book was that it was maybe just a little too high level, Kenneth Pollacks book The Threatening Storm provides far more detail and is a little less rabid in its overt partisan view of the world.  Given the book is short and can be had rather inexpensively, it is a nice addition to your Bush 2 collection.	2004-10-02
505198:US	41012519	R2M0CPZX9CDFNR	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An Experienced Team	The title of this book could have been The Gangs All Here.  The author details out how the major players in the Bush administration foreign policy arm primarily come from the same conservative and some would save aggressive, illogical family.  This group has been together, at least in the service of a Republican administration, since the Nixon - Ford administrations and are poster children for consistency in thought.  The author does a wonderful job in detailing out who the members of the Bush Team are, at least in regards to defense and foreign policy.  I was actually surprised at how lively and interesting the book was.   I was a bit concerned that the book would be 50% dull biographies of this guy or that guy's college and early work life.  Not much of that blandness was to be found.  Instead I really had a hard time putting the book down.   It is just an engaging and easy to read book. <br /> <br />So does the author really help the reader to understand the players involved?   Definitely so in my opinion.  There are no touchy feely psychoanalysis sections, but just a great detailed history of what these people have done in the service of the country and how they have acted and thought in the past.  I like to think that if this book would have been written before 2000, that I could have read it and been able to predict some of the moves team Bush have made, because the author does such a good job in detailing out the key players.  Sure the book covers a lot of the Iraq debate, but there is a wealth of information on the China incident in 2000 and a lot of back ground on the ABM treaty.  You almost wonder if it bothers public officials to have books that are this well written detail out all the moves they have made, I would think it makes it a bit more difficult to shade past mistakes. <br /> <br />If you are looking to get a good understanding of the Bush administration and want to read a book that skips the partisan and over done rants of the anti Bush crowd then this is a book for you.  I could not detect much, if any bias in the reporting.  It sure seamed to me that the reporting was straight on and as fair as possible.  The author doles out as much praise as he does condemnation, and it is all backed up with detailed analysis.  Overall this is just a wonderful book.  My only criticism, and a very slight one at that, was that I felt the author did not do himself justice in the conclusion and tried to hurry it along.  That point aside this is a must read to understand Bush 2.	2004-09-30
513269:US	41012519	R1VMXR4NQHCNON	0684801337	743331813	All's Fair: Love, War and Running for President	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Small Arms Fire	I know that this is the first book I have ever read with two senior people on the opposite sides of a presidential campaign combining on one book.  As far as I know this might be the only one out there like it.  Just the fact that both sides of the total campaign were discussed point by point would be enough to give this book a high rating, but these two authors (and probably the added professional writer) helped to make this book a very entertaining read.  The authors struck the right balance between the exciting blow by blow of the campaign and the day to day decisions that most people would find dull.  It was just so interesting reading both sides of each issue as it came up in the race.  Reading how each side perceived a situation and then reacted gave the reader a rich understanding of how the campaign played out. <br /> <br />The one area that I found a bit annoying was the rabid partisanship of Mary Matalin.  I actually thought that James Carville would be the rip it up partisan trash talker that was going to spell out the red meat attack on every issue.  Now I tend to lean a little left so I at first thought it was just my liberal sensitivities getting a bit out of joint, but the more I read and tried to be fair I really got a negative view of Matalin.  It is one thing to attack Clinton, heck stand in line, but the over blown attacks on average Democrats was a bit much.  It just made me doubt much of what she said when balance was required and it eliminated any sympathy I should have had for her being she was on the losing side.   <br /> <br />Another area I found interesting was how much she truly respected and adored President Bush.  Now this might be a symptom of any campaign worker, but make no mistake about it, Mary held her love for the candidate front and center. With this being said it is understandable that she would take the loss hard and find some avenues to place a little blame, but her dislike of the press was only surpassed by Bill Clinton himself.  Every bad decision or misstep on her side was somehow laid at the feet of the press for simply reporting the event.  If Clinton was leading in the polls then Matalin made the claim the press was favoring Clinton.   It got to be so pervasive that it took on the appearance of the town drunk arguing that he does not have a drinking problem.  It might have been an underling factor as to why the Bush team did not pull it out at the end.  Overall I really liked the book and if you are a political junkie then so will you.	2004-09-22
520616:US	41012519	RZ3FHF0JR1HLF	0895261359	182282826	Hatred's Kingdom: How Saudi Arabia Supports the New Global Terrorism	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Welcome To The Dark Side	When I bought this book I new the author was the Israeli ambassador to the United Nations at one time and I had a concern that the book might be a bit bias against Saudi Arabia given the history between Saudi Arabia and Israel.  Other then the author getting a bit defensive about the few times he mentioned the Palestinian Israeli issue, it did not seem to me that the author was being anything but fair.  As a disclaimer I would add that most of the book deals with a subject matter that is rather new to me so it could be completely bias and I might not be able to see it.   With this being said I did learn a great deal for the book and found it well written.  The world the author takes the reader into is an unknown world for most of us and it will probably take a number of books of this type before the general public starts to see the light in regard to Saudi Arabia. <br /> <br />The author provides the reader with a rather detailed history of how the Wahhabi sect of Islam has become the main if not only form of religion practiced in Saudi Arabia and how it is linked into the ruling royalty.  What I found most interesting is the detail that the author gives about the connections between the rulers of the country and the practice of Wahhabi Islam.  Up to this time I had always thought that the Osama bunch was a small fringe group within Saudi Arabia and that the government was more moderate and was interested with positive relations with the U.S.  What the book shows is that the roots of the radical beliefs run deep and this is not something that will quickly disappear within the Saudi Kingdom.  You almost wonder how U.S. citizens feel safe enough to live and work there given this deep and broad level of hatred for the western world. <br /> <br />The author gets into a good amount of detail on the terrorist attacks against the U.S. up to September 11 and explains the connection to Saudi Wahhabi groups.  He also spends a good deal of time talking over the how the wealthyin Saudi Arabia get money to the Osama type groups and just how hard it would be to stop.   The only part of the book that I was a bit disappointed in was the last chapter where the author tries to detail out what he thinks could be done to correct this problem.   This section of the book was almost embarrassingly light and was a let down given the rest of the book was so good.  I do not fault the author for the lack of solid ideas to correct the problem, that is an issue that has been and will be debated for years.  But I did hold him accountable for trying to pass this \\"glass is half full plan\\" past the reader as some sort of end all be all plan.  The author should have had a bit more courage and just admitted that besides the obvious, he did not have a plan to resolve the issues.  Overall I enjoyed the book and learned a great deal from it.	2004-09-15
526172:US	41012519	R3S7LQZ90E3OHG	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Plays Well With Others	When I bought this book I expected it to basically be a review of the first few years of the Bush 2 Presidency as it related to foreign affairs and all the things that the author thought the President did incorrectly.  To give the author credit, in today's publishing world where the more partisan and anti whoever your book is the more it sells this author took the high road and just discussed the state of the world and Americans place in it.  The author spends the first part of the book talking about the current level of power in the world with some very insightful and interesting reveries of some of the other countries out there vying to replace the U.S. as the top dog.  His view of power, both hard and soft, is clearly stated and a nice primer for understanding politics on the world stage. <br /> <br />As you may have guessed by the title of the book, who the author is and the dust jacket, that the author believes that the U.S. needs to stop acting as if we can go it alone and the rest of the world be dammed.  He gives a nice overview of the number of treaties and conventions that the Bush administration has chosen to get out of or not enter into, and the possible effects this go it alone attitude will have on issues of importance to America.   He ties in the war on terror and how the U.S. needs friends and allies across the globe to help keep us safe.   Given the current state of affairs in Iraq and the spread thin nature of American forces, the author was correct in his predictions that it is difficult if not impossible for American to go it alone in any large scale operations without significant sacrifices at home.  He also talks about how our economy can be hurt with too much isolationistic actions.   <br /> <br />Overall this is a solid book that gives the reader a nice overview of the current world situation from a more moderate point of view.  I did not get the impression the author was all that liberal, just that the current administration policies are soconservative that moderate views seem liberal in comparison.  My only complaint about the book is that the author is a college professor and to be fair he does seem to write like one.   This is not a book meant for half attention or someone that wants a light diversion.  If you are interested in world politics then this is an interesting book that you can learn something from.	2004-09-10
530310:US	41012519	R3KQIQNIXPHKJJ	0375508791	832739283	Why America Slept: The Failure to Prevent 9/11	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Asleep At The Wheel	Keep on pushing through the first couple of dull chapters and the never ending list of difficult to pronounce names, because the book is full of information that will alternatively aggravate and astound you.  The author gives the reader a fairly good review of the Al Queda and Osama bin Laden terrorist history against he U.S. and the sad history of missed opportunities to prevent 9/11.  In you are interested in this topic then you have probably heard some of these facts here and there, but to have then all lined up end to end in one reading is eye opening if for no other reason then to detail just how lucky this band of terrorists has been.  The author also covers the possible links between the Oklahoma City bombing and Middle East terrorists and the interrogation of the operational leader of Al Queda.     The real meat of the book is the detailed history the author lays out of Al Queda actions against the U.S.  Time and again there were leads and missed opportunities to both bag Osama and stop or at least hinder the 9-11 plot.  The author is not openly critical of the Clinton or Bush administrations, but he does spell out the items that he thinks were mess ups and is not shy about stating just how badly the FBI and CIA worked in this area.  I think the author was fair in his treatment of both Presidents, he really focused most of his finger pointing at the FBI.  This is not to say that he gave Clinton and Bush a free pass, he makes them look bad also, just not as directly tied to the failures as the FBI.  He also does a good job of detailing out to the reader out these groups operate.  From gathering money to moving people into place for attacks, the author provides some interesting facts.        The one area that raised my eye brows was the link the author implied was there between the Oklahoma City bombing and Middle East terrorists.  He never comes out and says the link is fact nor who the direct sponsor would have been, he just dances around it leaving the reader to draw the conclusion that someone in the Middle East was directing the action.  Two things bothered me with this section of the book.  First the author tied in Iraq, Iran, Al Queda and just about any other Muslim nut job to the attack.  If the evidence was strong enough to put in the book then I would have expected the author to at least directly implicate one benefactor.  Secondly the author never actually makes the claim that any outside the U.S. group was involved in the bombing.  He hints at it and, because the author is not sticking his name to the claim then I was confused as to why he wanted it in the book.  It seamed a little sly to me.         Overall I did like the book.  The information on the capture and interrogation of the Al Queda operational leader is very interesting.   The book is full of items that are as close to shocking as one is going to get on this topic.  This book is the proof that hind sight is 20/20 and that us Americans almost systematically fail to prepare for items much past the foreseeable and immediate future.	2004-09-07
532333:US	41012519	RVBPDEOX9HLLZ	015132302X	78760187	A Ford, not a Lincoln	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Tragic Comedy Almost	Few people have the time or interest to read a book about the Ford administration and I am not necessarily proud to be one of them. To be fair to myself I read the book more because of the author then the subject.  I must say that I was very pleased.  Again what I liked was really not much about President Ford, but the humor and insight of the author.  Let's face it, most of us have a rather negative view of good old Jerry, and this book pushes that perception even further.  Page after page the author details out one dim witted move after another.  It just seamed as though Ford was moving in a world with about 60% of the required IQ points to succeed.   All the detail about the blunders and misstep's is done with almost comedic like timing and surprise. If I did not know better you would think this was a Moore or Franklin book.   The author used the subject to the fullest in the comedy writings. <br /> <br />The good humor aside, you really do get a negative view of the Ford administration.  Not necessarily because of what he did, but more because of what remarkably little he did do.  The author stretched to detail out much of anything that Ford did except campaign trips and blanket approvals of Nixon policies that still seemed to be generated within the administration.   The one nice consistent with this book and about every other book I have read about the Nixon administration is that this author disliked Al Haig.  How this guy has rubbed every single person he has met the wrong way I will never know, but he is the poster child for \\"does not get along with others\\".   Overall the book was full of humor and some interesting facts.  It is a quick read and if for some reason you are looking for something on Ford this book will at least give you a smile if nothing else.	2004-09-04
536823:US	41012519	R2G62CT9MTCNOA	0465041213	670404372	Made in Texas: George W. Bush and the Southern Takeover of American Politics	Books	3	7	12	N	N	The Lone Star Rant	I was surprised about the span of what this book covered.  Based on the title and dust jacket I assumed that the book was going to be about G.W. and his rise in Texas politics.  I was looking forward to some details about how he lost his first congressional race and then went on to win the race for the Governor.  The book did not cover this area at all, what it did cover was the history of Texas politics, the now familiar anti Bush run down, and the authors idea of what America should look like.  If the writing had not been so shocking and surprising from page to page I might have been disappointed in the difference in the book description and what it ended up covering. <br /> <br />The area of the book that covered the history of Texas politics started out normal enough.  It just kept getting more odd from page to page.  The author fell into some sort of habit of labeling all conservatives as ultra right wing, religious and racist British hand me downs.  After reading the book you would think that the state is run by a bunch of white men that are half KKK and half John Birch society. The author kept getting deeper into this odd rant that it started to border on a conspiracy theory close to alien abduction.  The author then followed this up with a Michael Moore light version of all the things bad are due to G.W.   It is not that this type of book is not something I enjoy reading, it was just that the author did not successfully tie in his Texas roots with the policies and actions detailed.  To give the author some credit he did try a few times to tie in one of the policy issues he disagreed with to some sort of ultra conservative Texas politics.  I was just that he did it so haphazardly and infrequently that it appeared to be an after thought. <br /> <br />The last section of the book was a rather odd as it covered some version of what the author thinks America should be like.  The author went off the deep end and basically dictated that the federal government should move people and industry from the coasts to the middle of the country and give every one a three bedroom house and a car.  He went off on some tangent that most farm and ranch land was wasted and should be used for suburban sprawl.  Now I have no doubt that this author has strong feelings about this area and that he dug up some interesting facts to support his conclusions.   It was just that it nothing to do with the overall subject of the book so it came off as a bit strange.   If I wanted the authors views of social engineering then I would have bought a book covering it.  Overall I found the book a confused anti conservative rant that boarded on strange.  It has few pages so it reads fast and similar to slowing down to look at a car wreck, it is hard to put the book down as you are always wondering what is on the next page.  Buy it if you really hate the GOP or if you like to read the author.	2004-08-31
540694:US	41012519	R2UFN2LM5YIVR0	1889119148	239621003	The Clinton Legacy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Aggressive Goal	To try and write a book on a Presidents legacy with almost of year left in his term seems to be to be a bit aggressive if not arrogant.  After all, it takes years for policies to become fully operational and there effects to be seen in society.  Yet these authors marched on and gave it the old college try.  To be fair the book does seem to be well written and functionally thought out.  Each section of the book hit's the major events within the chapter theme and overall there were not many gaps in the reporting unless you feel the \\"victory lap\\" that the last few months of the Clinton presidency turned into is an area  you are looking to have covered. <br /> <br />As I was reading the book I must say that it was not a comfortable experience.  I am a fan of President Clinton and to say that this book is a critical review would be speaking with some sensitivity.  The book is very direct and does not get swayed by talking points or message spinners.  The authors are brutally honest, but yet not partisan sounding.   They covered the issues, but left out the Rush type cheap shots.  So if you come away thinking that the authors were too hard on Clinton then you have to make a thoughtful argument against them, because that is what the authors used to make their points. <br /> <br />With this said I did think they focused a bit too much on areas that were considered failures.  For instance they repeatedly give Clinton negative marks because he could not push through a very liberal agenda due to the gridlock imposed by Newt and company, but did not give him credit for getting some items passed.  They seem to discount the fact that the Republicans were fighting everything team Clinton wanted to do and each small step forward was a victory of sorts.  Overall the book was well written and a nice overview of the Clinton presidency.  I do think that  the goal of determining the legacy effect might have been a bit early in history, but the book is a very good overview.  If you are interested in the Clinton years then this is a very direct and spin free view of the years, if not a slight bit overly critical and what seamed to be to be a bit bias to the negative side.	2004-08-28
544859:US	41012519	R1OLHARBOAJAUM	0679456953	331533627	Nixon in Winter : His Final Revelations about Diplomacy, Watergate, and Life out of the Arena	Books	5	7	8	N	N	It's Not That Cold	I read the authors other book on Nixon, Nixon Off The Record and enjoyed it, therefore, I thought I would give this book a chance.  To be up front I do not have a deep interest in Nixon or that I think Nixon spells out some overly insightful view of the political landscape. It was just that this author did such a good job of detailing out (quoting) so many of Nixon's musings about the political landscape from 90 to 94 it made for interesting reading.  This fact brings me to the first concern I have had with this and her other book and that is how could anyone truly remember these detailed conversations, even if she documented them the minute she left his side?  What I finally decided was to go with it and just assume that if the author did ad lib a bit here and there that she spent so much time with Nixon that the ad lib was probably close to the truth.    As with the first book the thing that really surprised me was just how petty Nixon came off. He was whining and complaining about the press in about every three sentences. Regardless of the situation, he somehow related it back to how the press and Democrats unfairly went after him during the Watergate scandal. At this point in his life he must have focused on it so much that he saw the whole world through this hate filled prism. As the book went on his views on liberals also was detailed more and more and to call the comments ugly would be fair.  The books finished with a chapter on religion and human nature and this is when the long knives really came out.  If there was a social issue that Nixon did not agree with then it was somehow a negative plot or character trait displayed by \\"The Liberals\\" who he tried to insinuate where on the verge of destroying the American society.     I was still surprised at how Nixon downright disliked all the Presidents that came after him. In his mind, they all fell short of his accomplishments and were far from a close second. He of course would then work in a diatribe about thepress and how they will never give him the credit he deserves. It was interesting that he had such a low opinion of Bush Sr., he went after Bush on the way he dealt with Russia, but he also let him have it about every aspect of his Presidency. Yet his opinion would change the minute anyone in the Bush administration called him. Once he was shown some attention his opinion would suddenly change and all was right again with Bush, at least for a few weeks. I was surprised by this very apparent selfish and almost immature behavior.     Overall Nixon came off as a man with a very bruised ego and a bit bitter. My view of the man was not enhanced after reading these two books, in fact I think less of the man.  I thought he some good views on the political situation of the time, but it was basically common sense. I kept thinking that if you follow politics you would have many of the same observations. I guess I just thought given his long career that he would somehow have insight that really would have surprised me. Overall the book was very interesting and a fast read. I had trouble putting it down. If you are interested in American politics then this a great book.	2004-08-24
553025:US	41012519	RWVG7ESZBB2KH	1891620533	717815776	The Greatest Threat: Iraq, Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Growing Crisis in Global Security	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Overstated Case	There is an advantage to reading a book a few years after it is first published.  The advantage in this case is that the Saddam dictatorship is history and many of the assurances that lead us to war have been proven to be a little over hyped, to be generous.  That comment leads us to this book.  The author was the head of the UN weapons inspectors in the last two years they were in place, ending in 1998.  This book is his review of his time on the job and the obligatory musings about what needed to be done with Saddam circa 2000.  I had heard in a number of other articles and some books that the author was a bit arrogant and pushy.  To be fair, those personality traits, if they even exist, did not come out in the book.  The author presented his case in a rather fair sounding and well thought out process.  There were no over the top dramatics nor did it seam to me that the author was trying to stretch the truth to prove his point. <br /> <br />I  started this book thinking it would be one case after another of how Iraq had hid WMD`s, yet they were hardly ever mentioned.   By this I mean that the author only detailed out a few cases of papers being found and old weapons parts being dug up.  In all his pages on the inspection process, the author gives the reader no finds of the actual weapons the world was looking for.  All the author really detailed was the unlimited number of ways the Iraqi's found to be unhelpful, arrogant, and just plain nasty to his team. If there ever was a case for how not to play well with others the Iraqi's are the hands down favorites.  In hind sight, what is rather humorous is that if they would have just swallowed a little crow and let the UN run all over their county unmolested for a few years, they would have left and the Saddam cronies would still be in power.  This could be the first dictator to loss power due to unending amounts of arrogance coupled with a good helping of plain ignorance. <br /> <br />The last item I found interestingwas the side story that bordered on a male cat fight.  This author and Scott Ritter, another of the weapons inspectors, had a few words while working together and both decided to finish the disagreement in the press.  About the only value in the comments is that it makes you smile a little to think that this author lowered himself to grade school play ground name calling in a book for the masses.  Overall, I found the book interesting in its detail of the way the Iraqi government dealt with the UN and how the French, Russians and Chinese all interacted with the US.  I also thought the very apparent lack of evidence of WMD`s being discussed in the book was a precursor of things to come.   If you are interested in the conservative thinking that lead up to the Iraqi war, then this book is an interesting bit a the picture.	2004-08-17
556280:US	41012519	RQOBWU27HI9WS	0684822849	404227740	GOING NEGATIVE: How Political Ads Shrink and Polarize the Electorate	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Going To Sleep	A few things jumped out at me when I first sat down to write this review.   The first was that in reading the introduction and then as the book goes along, the reader starts to wonder if maybe there is not some underlying bias in the research.   The authors are based in California, used a majority of California political contests and used as their control and test groups Californians.  Not that there is anything wrong with the great state of California, it's just that it is known as a very liberal state and this book is supposed to be fair study of negative campaign adds and the effect on Joe average.  I keep wondering why they did not focus on races in the mid west where the states swing from one side of the spectrum to the other depending on the year.  If this was not enough of a concern about bias then the comments about how the GOP tends to be better at the attack add and they use it more often is another comment that looks bias.   Even if it is true, and given I am a lefty I think it is, it does tend to look a little bias.     <br /> <br />The next issue I had with the book was the fact that it is one of the dullest and driest book I think I have ever come across.  These two guys are not authors, why the publisher did not get a ghost writer in there to pep up the text is beyond me.  Ok I know that it is an \\"important study\\" type book, but man alive if it was not hard to read.  Even when they were describing read meat attack adds they somehow found ways to dull it down to a written equitant to watching dust gather on a table.  Page after page I was torn between wanting to keep going and wanting to break down in tears due to the pain of continuing.  It is a statement to how interesting the overall topic is that I got through the book at all.  Running a marathon, climbing Everest and reading this book are all about equitant in pain and effort. <br /> <br />That leads me to the last thing I want to say and that is that many parts of the book were interesting.   Outside of the rather basic views on Democratic or Republican strong points, the authors were able to provide some interesting views on who is effected by negative adds.   I had always thought the effect was to change people from one candidate to another, but the authors detail out evidence that all the negative adds do is reinforce the opinions of the partisan and turn off the middle of the road folks.  The authors tried to tie in a correlation with declining participation in elections with the increase in TV advertising.   The authors also surprised me by standing up for TV adds, negative or positive.  They made the claim that most people gain their knowledge of candidates primarily from these adds so the volume of the adds helps in getting information out to the public.   <br /> <br />Overall the book was useful and interesting in parts.  It was just so badly written that the average reader is going to give up about 25 pages in.  I wish the authors could have done a better job in the writing as the information contained in the book is eye opening if not a bit bias.  The book is probably only for the political junkies of you.	2004-08-14
559514:US	41012519	R3EHYR39IKBHXK	0684857804	880656084	ROLLING THUNDER: Jet Combat From WW II to the Gulf War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What's That I Hear?	For me one of the more difficult books to pull off is the general history type book.  The reason being is that it is always the case of not being able to please all of the people all of the time.  With a general middle of the road type book compromises have to be made and it is the good author that can bridge the gaps that these choices leave.  This author tried to give the reader both a general overview of jet fighter development and descriptions of actual jet fighters in combat. Based on what I was looking for the author provided me just the right mix.  He was very heavy into descriptions of all major jet fighter combat experiences over the last 60 years and a bit light on the development process.   <br /> <br />This authors talents lay with his ability to describe combat.  I became more impressed with his writing skill with each new battle he covered.   He brought a nice combination of straight shooting facts and the type of drama that is appropriate for a non fiction book.  I learned the most from his descriptions of the wars the Israelis have fought and some nice details on both the first Gulf war and the Korean war.  My only negative comment on his war coverage was that it was always one sided.  Again choices had to be made and I am sure obtaining written accounts of either the Soviet, Arab or Korean battles is not as easy as getting American and British versions.   Plus the winners were the versions he used and we all know the winners write the history. <br /> <br />I did not buy the book to get into a deep and well researched account of jet fighter development, and because of this the book gave me just want I was looking for.  The author covered the devolvement as a bit of an after thought and you could tell by the writing style that this author was more excited about the combat then the design room.  Overall I liked the book.  It was easy to read and had a lot of nice detail about many jet fighter combat incidents.  If you are looking for a nice overview ofjet battles over the past half decade then this book will give you a nice start.   If you are after a detailed account of jet development then keep looking, there is just not enough detail of this type to keep you engaged.	2004-08-11
566771:US	41012519	R2TCVGGUFX2HAL	074325337X	760100886	House of Bush, House of Saud: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties	Books	5	41	48	N	N	House of Greed	I think the thing I liked most about this book is that the author provided a very balanced and what appeared to be fair, look at the relationship between the rulers of Saudi Arabia and the Bush Administration.  Unlike the Michael Moore or Al Franklin books, this author was able to present his position without the over blow, very dramatic and breathless rants familiar to many books critical of the Bush Administration.  Don't get me wrong, I, like most angry Democrats, like a good rant book now and again, but it is nice to read a well thought out and calmly discussed investigative piece.  At the least, it makes me feel like I am being objective in my anti Bush book choices. <br /> <br />The author spent about half of the book looking at the overall relationship the Saudi government has with the US government and many of the people in power around GW.  The author dug into the intertwined financial relationships that just have to compromise or at least shade the positions of many of the politicians GW has surrounded himself with.  The author did not, nor do I think anyone could, produce the smoking gun memo stating that policies should reflect this or that politicians financial best interests, but by detailing out the relationships, he sure makes one sit back and think.  I think it would be hard to put the pressure on the Saudi's if they were indirectly providing my father, brother and life long family friends with massive amounts of money through direct jobs or just interests in companies they do business with.  If you are the former CEO of a company with hundreds of thousands of stock options, would you do anything to hurt the Saudi's that spend millions with your former company? <br /> <br />The other half of the book dealt with both the 9 / 11 attacks and the personal relationship GW and his father have with members of the Saudi government.  As for the 9 / 11 items, it is almost an insult that we are provided spin session after spin session about how much the Saudi's are helping the US with the war on terror when by all accounts they are either not acting at all, or worse they are acting as blockers to our efforts.  The reported links detailed in the book are enough to make you want to park your car for good just in case the money you spend on gas goes back to the Saudi royal family.  The detail of the relationships between the Bush's and the Saudi's is just icing on the cake.  It is so well documented that it does nothing but depress me that people get into public service positions and appear to do nothing but help themselves and their friends and family's.   <br /> <br />Overall I felt this book was a very good, balanced and fair look at this relationship.  The author stayed away from the cheap shots and dug into the somewhat unseemly relationships the Bush family is engaged in.  Do I think all the assumptions are true, probably not, but there seams to be enough smoke that at least a little fire is burning.	2004-08-04
570509:US	41012519	R2HA3SG7ZW5J6K	0140268588	579887927	Whatever It Takes: The Real Struggle for Political Power in America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who Do I Have To Sleep With?	I am a political junkie and have found this author to be one of the better ones when it comes to detailing the inside the beltway battles. This is almost a unique talent, to be able to basically detail one conversation after another and make it exciting is no small feat. This book details out the political action committees, special interest groups and lobbyists in their rather unseemly pursuit of gaining favor and influence with the only group of people that actually get paid to spend half of their time begging for money, Congressmen. The book details out what took place in the 1996 elections, not from the point of view of the politicians, but from the point of view of the people who are paid to bribe, sorry I mean influence the politicians.         Even though I have read a great number of books about modern politics, this was the first time I read a whole book detailed to this part of the Soft Money generation process. You almost feel like you need a shower after each chapter of this book. The non stop cajoling and sweat talking these guys and gals had to do was just a bit sickening. I guess it is like the old saying about sausage, it is great to eat but you do not what to watch it being made. About the only redeeming quality these special interest people had was that they really did come off in the book to be committed to whatever was there group. I guess it may be the only way to be successful in that type of job.         The author spent most of her time focusing on the Republican races and mostly conservative groups. The author explained that this focus was due to the fact that the Democrats held the White House and she wanted to focus on the challengers. This made sense to me, but the dirt she digs up on the way these people do business tends not to leave them in a good light. Given that she focuses mostly on the Republicans, it does seem to give the impression that the book is somewhat bias. Then again maybe it was just me as I tend not to be a big fan of rather right leaning groups, but like to read balanced books. Overall was my only concern with the book. The book was well written and very informative. It is a wonderful item to add to your collection and really opens your eyes to just how unattractive fund raising is.	2004-07-31
577133:US	41012519	R2VPV8QKRYMMH	1585745650	830137227	My Jihad: The True Story of an American Mujahid's Amazing Journey from Usama Bin Laden's Training Camps to Counterterrorism with the FBI and CIA	Books	3	6	7	N	N	My, What A Life	I would say that either this author has lead an exciting and dangerous life or he is an arrogant and delusional truth stretcher out to capitalize on the post 9-11 terrorism interest.  The problem was I could not tell which it was.  At times the authors life story seamed interesting and passable, there were even mundane sections of his life detailed in the book.  It was just that he kept coming into contact with this terrorist or that terrorist that has gone on to be involved in such memorable events like the 9-11 attacks or the Daniel Pearl murder.  Couple this with his soldier of fortune cover story like tail of military combat, and I started to wonder where the truth ended and the Rambo like fictional excitement to sell books started.   <br /> <br />To be fair the author spent far more time slogging his way from one cheap hotel to another in search of combat action in various Muslim combat hotspots of the 90s then he did actually firing a weapon.  The fact that he detailed out this constant and aggravating wandering did lend credence to the stories of when he actually does come into contact with the opposite party.  It was just that when the bullets or heated words started flying, he turned into some unstoppable and completely free of fear machine that would make any B movie start proud.  Who knows, maybe the author is truly a fearless fighter of the highest order, but the combat daring do did leave me a bit skeptical.  And what was with the title, mentioning Usama Bin Laden was nothing more then a bait and switch tactic to get you to buy the book.   This guy has had as much contact with old Usama as I have.  If you are going to use his name in the title of the book I would at least expected the author to have met the man.  <br /> <br />His detail with his work with the FBI and the CIA also seamed to be far more words then action.  It was a classic case of he talked a good game, but rarely got on the field come show time. Again it seamed to me that he exaggeratedwhat he did and the contacts he had to make this a more exciting story.  Unfortunately for me it just made be further question the accuracy of the book.  I mean if this guy had done all of these things, met with all of these terrorists, wouldn't he be on every talking head TV program there is?  Overall the book was entertaining and there were some nice details about Chechnya.  It was just that it seamed to me that the author took a few too main liberties with the truth given the very exciting and dangerous life that he details.  Then again it could have all been true and I am just put off by the authors rather large ego and chip on his shoulder.  It is rare that you come across someone so in awe of their own talent that they truly think they can walk on water.	2004-07-25
582990:US	41012519	R1WY3YJDPRDETQ	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	4	19	25	N	N	History Light	I must admit that this is the first memoir I have ever read that was by the First Lady and given this one is graded as one of the better ones, I think it may be my last.  It was not that the book was badly written, it was just that the majority of what the First Lady does is not all that interesting to me.  Reading about this fund raisers, good will trips or party planning are not my idea of thrilling political insider info.  I am more interested in the hard fought, inside the beltway battles that make major decisions.  I obviously new this book was about the First Lady, but given the Clinton Presidency, I assumed that it would cover more in depth the political battles the administration faced.  Then again the book was about her.  <br />The next compliant I would have about the book is that the author seamed to take the high road on all the areas you thought she would come out with both guns blazing on.  Her comments were so bland that they almost acted to diminish or completely disregarded the very negative attacks the Clinton's faced during their terms.  Sure she touched on the items of major interest, heath care reform, the full independent counsel investigation, Monica and the Senate race, but it seamed to be at such a high level that all the real nasty, dirty inside details were left out of the book.  Ok I know that she has a new job now so that she did not what to lay waste the political landscape that she will be working in and one could make the argument that the First Lady needs to stay above the partisan attacks, but hey this is the edge of the seat reading I wanted.  <br />Lastly I wanted more detail.  Now given that she had lead a rather full life, Governors wife, working on the Nixon impeachment, First Lady and now Senator, to get a real detailed account of all of these areas she would have needed a much larger if not multiple volume book.  I guess I would have just liked her to focus on the First Lady section of her life and have gone into more detail.Just as the book seamed to be getting into a topic, the chapter was over and on to the next installment of Hilary on the move.  <br />Even though I have focused on the areas I disliked with the book, overall I thought it was probably better then most books dealing with the Clinton years.   I did think the writing was better then average and she did have an interesting story to tell.  The details she did given about the life of the First Lady and some of the inside information about the Clinton Presidency were worth the purchase price, throw in some of the personal bit and the book was not bad at all.  I also have a sympathetic spot for her, so the increased my enjoyment of the book.  I guess I am just a bit disappointed that the book could have been so much better.  It could have been a stinging and focused rebuttal of all the overly negative and harmful to the country attacks.  Then again how could one book fight back the 8 year, over the top negative campaign focused against the Clinton's.   I felt the book was interesting and enjoyable.	2004-07-19
603462:US	41012519	R2WY4M1R77ECX0	0805209603	895617557	On Bended Knee: The Press and the Reagan Presidency	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Bend Over Backwards To Help	The cover of this book has a picture of President Reagan in front of about 10 reporters.  This is about the same ratio of press verse political coverage in the book itself.  This book was recommend or mentioned in a number of other books I have read covering the Reagan Presidency or how the media deal with the White House.  Thus, I thought it would be an interesting book on how the Reagan image machine worked.  I just came away a bit disappointed because of the heavy amount of reporting on the press.  I guess I thought the book would be more balanced and have a deeper look at what the Reagan administration did with the press and how they put out information to the press.  Basically, I wanted to know more details on how the political people control the media.<br />If you are part of the population that does not believe in the \\"Liberal Media\\" chant so many conservatives have been going on about for years then this book will add many new examples to your cocktail party debates.  This book is a great pre book to Alterman's \\"What Liberal Media\\"  The authors really dig into how the press viewed partisan or the appearance of partisan coverage during the 80's.  It almost came across like most of the press where more worried about how there paper was viewed by the White House image team then by the readers.  The author gave example after example and quotes galore from media types that talked about how stories were rewritten or pushed further back in the paper due to the subjects.  There were also some very interesting examples about how the White House used terrorism and the Middle East to first sell American involvement and then excuse American withdrawals.  It seemed to me that the current White House may be using some of these same tactics.<br />One last comment on the book.  I do not know if I can correctly explain this, but this author had a very dense way of writing.  It almost seams as though you need to take about twice as long as you normally would to get through achapter.  It was not dull nor wooden.  It just seemed to take more energy yet I did not come away thinking this was a great book.  Maybe it is just me.  Anyway the book is interesting and gives you a lot of nice information about the press and the Reagan Administration.  If you are at all interested in either the media or Reagan then I bet you will enjoy this book.  I would warn you though that the author does not sugar coat the truth and he has no problem pointing out Reagan's mistakes or weaknesses.  If you are a fan of Ron then you may be aggravated with many pages.	2004-07-04
613356:US	41012519	R1FH3IQV4WZH2B	0525947779	245476265	Three Weeks in October	Books	1	22	31	N	N	The Moose is Loose	The only reason I am not too mad at my self with this book purchase is that I picked it up on a sale table and spent only a few dollars on it.  That happens to also be one of the nicest things I can say about the book.  This review is really the tail of two books, the first book is the one I was interested in reading, which covered the Washington DC area sniper case.  The second book is a history of the author, which I honestly did not care about.   I will give the editor credit, he did keep the two sections in separate chapters, which made it easy as I got into the book to pass by the personal history parts.   So on the section I wanted to read, well to say the writing was wooden would unfairly give trees a bad name.  I have no idea how these two guys, the police chief and the ghost writer, managed to reduce an exciting and interesting story into a cure for insomnia, but they did it. Pfizer needs to bottle this and call it Sleep Fast because it was brutal to get through.  To top off the dullness overload they provided less info then I could get from a single newspaper report of the incident.  I bought this book to get all the good inside info, not white washed info that was already provided to the public.<br />The sections of the book that dealt with the personal history of the author actually were written with a bit more spunk then the rest of the book.  The only problem was that this guy is the most race aware public figure this side of Al Sharpton.  Everything in the world is seen through a white black lens for this guy.  It got so old reading about every slight or problem he ever had in his life that he could somehow link to racism.  I have no doubt there have been events that he has been disadvantaged due to race, but it got to be too much.  I really got the feeling that he was mad at every white man in the country and that he felt there was no way that a white man and black man could come together on any issue.  His views on the subject were overbearing and rude.  It was so much that he even went out of his way to identify every black person he writes about yet not the race of any of the other people.   I have no idea why.      <br />So here is a book that I felt was about 50% bait and switch, I dare you to find on the cover or dust jacket any mention that over half of the book is this guys life story.  What disappointed me even more about the content is that the authors could have given us so much more detail of the investigation.  No pictures, no reprints of any of the messages, no transcripts of the recorded calls, the lack of detail was very disappointing.  Overall I am very disappointed by this book.  The author did detail out the case, but in almost a cliff notes fashion.  The section of the book that details his life are written with such a chip on his shoulder that it makes this half of the book tiresome and distasteful.  Overall I would not recommend this book other then the author says part of the proceeds are sent to a fund for the victims.	2004-06-27
619036:US	41012519	R2V4A9FAS0RUU7	0895261499	927932551	Fighting Back:  The War on Terrorism from Inside the Bush White House	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Sold With Pom Poms	There must be a rule with any author that has a book published by Regnery Publishing and that is that on every third page the book needs to take a negative dig at either President Clinton or Democrats in general.  For those of you wondering, this book fulfills the quota with an impressive start on page two.  Even though this book is an unabashedly pro Bush book on the 9/11 attacks and the American response, there are more mentions of President Clinton then Osama Bin Laden.  The author finds ways to blame just about everything bad in the world on Clinton and then for good measure knocks around his wife at least once per chapter.  I knew this book was going to be, in a small part anyway, a bit of a puff piece for Bush.  The author wears his love for the President on his sleeve on all his public appearances on the FOX network and he is employed by the rather conservative Washington Times.  This was one of the reasons I was drawn to the book.  Who doesn't like to read a positive, pro American, rock-um sock-um type book?  I thought I would get a nice and interesting look at 9/11 from an author that was probably given more access to the Bush Team because he was going to write such a glowing review.  I figured this would be a nice bookend to the Woodward book.<br />The book does deliver what I was looking for, a very positive and detailed account of the Bush administration from 9/11 through mid 2002.  The author does a nice job of giving the reader a great deal of facts that the average author might pass by.  This is why I bought the book and on this point I was pleased.  My concerns with the book were the rather childish way the author lets his massive dislike for President Clinton invade this book.  It was almost as if the author could not stop himself with the rude comments.  They added nothing to the main story.  If this side show was not enough the author spent about 20% of the book attacking the media and its coverage of the Bush administration.   So much so I got tothink that maybe the title of the book was somehow related to the Bush Administrations fight with the &quot;Liberal&quot; press instead of Americas fight with terrorists.  All of this anti Clinton and press bashing did nothing for the story and took away more from the book then it added.<br />I guess what really disappointed me was the authors very obvious and not very well done attempts at defending the Bush administration from some of the negative charges or comments made by the press or his opponents.  The author covered topics that had nothing or very slightly anything to do with the main focus of the book.  Many of the comments were nothing more then bait and switch campaign tactics or well worn GOP standard attack lines usually used at the end of a losing negative campaign.  All these comments did for me was to call into question how much of the book as based in solid fact and how much was blind support for the President.  What makes the comments sad is that the book did not need them.  The President, by almost all accounts, was and still is thought of as performing very well during this time.  He does not need this ham handed shading of the facts and cheap shots that this author employs.  It actually takes away more then it adds.<br />Overall I enjoyed the parts of the book that detailed the facts.  These sections of the book put the President in a very positive light and were well written.  It was just that the negative comment campaign against President Clinton and the press brought the book down to some playground name calling event.  Throw in the attack dog dirty campaign style support pieces and the book falls into the middle of the rating scale.  If you are an arch conservative you will probably fall in love with the book and the author.   If you are more of a moderate and are looking for a book that just covers the facts and skips the rhetoric then I would suggest the Woodward book Bush at War.	2004-06-23
623544:US	41012519	R1BOQRA65HO8PD	0156007592	235133790	Presidential Inaugurations	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Its Party Time	I tend to have a soft spot for any book that covers a part of the American Presidency that is not widely covered.  This book falls into that category.  The author takes a look at the Presidential Inaugurations through the years and tells the reader many different stories relating to and gathered together based on a particular part of the day.  He separated the book into chapters that dealt with a particular part of the day, from the swearing in to the parades and then the balls.   He also gives the reader a nice list in the back that covered firsts that happed for each President and a nice sampling of memorable quotes from the Presidents speeches.  <br />To his credit the author did not just cover the more popular Presidents, but really tried to dig up and present information on all the Presidents.  He also did a nice job with comparing the different Presidents style and how that effected the planned events.  I also enjoyed how the author lead us through history with each type of event and explained how they changed through history.  It was interesting that the author was able to add in information about the Bush 2 events, but he did not overload the book with what would probably be the easiest President to cover given time frames of the event and the writing of the book.  <br />The two areas that I would have liked more detail on would have been the respective costs associated with each of the events and more humor.  On the humor side, I would not have expected any except that the author choose cover art that leads one to think they may be a few good laughs hiding between the covers and the dust jacket had comments as to how funny parts of the book were.  Either I had a different copy of the book or the humor was too subtle for my senses to pick up.  I would have also liked a few pictures, but I always do with a non fiction book.   Overall the book was interesting and entertaining.   It gave the reader a nice sampling of history around the event and the author wasable to slide in some interesting facts about the individual Presidents personalities.	2004-06-19
625955:US	41012519	RCZ7OQ7DDDD9	0465026141	802361939	In Search Of Deep Throat: The Greatest Political Mystery Of Our Time	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Get Your Mind Out Of The Gutter	I have always found something interesting and entertaining about the whole Watergate and Deep Throat story.  How this one grumpy guy helped to bring down a President has always been fascinating, probably because his identity is still a mystery.  In certain circles this mystery ranks up their with Bigfoot on the scale of true believers verses critics.  Thus when I came across this book I thought I would pick it up if nothing more then to fuel my curiosity.  The author provides a book that gives the reader a brief insight into the author, the roll he played in the Nixon administration and what he has done since.  He provides a nice overview of what happened during Watergate and then he gets into who he thinks was Deep Throat.  He also provides a nice Where Are They Now appendix at the end of the book, which is I found almost as entertaining as many parts of the book.<br />As you can imagine, the author did not jump right into who he assumes was Deep Throat.  He takes us through a number of people that he suspected, but decided that they did not fit the bill. In this area I was disappointed.  He tried to cover a good number of people (as the initial population of who it could be Deep Throat is always large before some investigation is done), but many times he dismisses people on almost no evidence, at least not provided in the text.  There were any number of suspects that were tossed aside with simple comments about how the author could not see this person sneaking around a parking garage late at night.  Although this type of reasoning may work with your wife or friends, for me it was a bit light and almost called into question his investigative process as a whole.  One last minor criticism, the author should have included a few pictures of some of the people he was talking about, sure we all know what Nixon and the A team looked like, but this story was more about the players in the background and I would have liked to put a face with the names. <br />I think I foundthe most value in the details of the players / suspects that he did provide the readers.  The strongest part of the book, in my opinion, was the personality traits and interactions of the key players that he detailed.  Unlike books that focus on the administration or the key players, this book looked at what were some of the second tier players and gave the reader a very nice feel for what they were like and what it was like working with them.  Overall the book was entertaining and well written.  I did have some issues with the overall investigative process and I felt that once the author detailed who he felt was Deep Throat, his explanation why lacked an overwhelming amount of evidence to truly prove to me that he was correct.  It just seemed to me like he rushed the last and most important chapter of the book.  The details of the people involved saved the rating I gave the book, if it was not for this detail I would have rated the book lower.	2004-06-17
630775:US	41012519	R2KQ5TEXD8TJOI	1400050219	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Closer To Being Married To Him	I found it hard not to enjoy this book, the author has a great combination of experience and attitude that makes the book a real kick to read.   The author is an ex CIA agent that spent his years in the Middle East, he wrote a book covering his experiences, which I would suggest you also look into.  Given that he is an ex CIA agent makes the book take on an almost risky, dark, espionage feel.  Surly this guy has the straight stuff after all those James Bond like experiences right, well at least that is the vibe I get from the book.  This romantic fiction inspired secret agent man back drop is only enhanced by the authors attitude that comes through on almost every page.  I can almost see him at the typewriter late at night with a bottle of scotch and a pack of cigarettes hammering away spending as much time deleting passages that he deems are still top secret as he does culling his memory of bits needed to cover the topic at hand.  He is a mans man who seams to give you the straight story, at least that is how he comes across in the text. <br />Speaking of the topic at hand,  the author details out all the ways in which the ruling elite of Saudi Arabia have played a dangerous game of compromise and placation with about everybody they deal with.  The keep the ultra religious sect at bay with unlimited support and freedom within the country, so much freedom and support one can make the claim that they in fact support the teachings and actions of Osama types.  The author details out the links between the ruling family and Al Quida in dealings from charity support to outright financial support of some past military campaigns i.e. Afghanistan.  They keep the royal family fat, dumb and happy with petrol dollars, so much so that it is amazing to me that these people think the gravy train is never going to come to an end.  Given that this family is multiplying faster then a bunch of rabbits in a warm den, you gotta wonder where these people think the cash is going to come from.   <br />And lastly they keep their ultimate protector happy with a limitless supply of black gold and a return of all those gas dollars on good old fashion American weapons.  As the author kept detailing out arms deal after arms deal I started to wonder what they did with all of these weapons.  They must have warehouses full of the stuff just sitting there waiting for some militant uprising to turn the country into one heck of a made for CCN war.  The pessimist in me started to wonder about the chances of those weapons being used against US troops some day.  Overall the book was very enjoyable to read.  I did feel that the author was a little light on some details and made some jumps that were not fully explained in the book, possibly due to government restrictions.  I also felt the author should have beefed up the closing chapter where he could have better explained to the novice reader how this current American policy toward Saudi and their internal policies are leading us to a big international mess that will take years to fix.   But I just can not knock the book for these criticisms because it was so darn entertaining to read.  You will be happy you read the book.	2004-06-13
633741:US	41012519	R3SRZF4EHFSEI2	0786869496	569451063	Clinton & Me	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fun Times For All	I read a lot of political memoirs and it has been my experience that the press secretaries and the speech writers always are the most entertaining.  Not much of an original idea given that these people are employed because of their skills with language, but I have never been one to shy away from pointing out the painfully obvious.  I think the two most important things you should know about this book is that the author is a confirmed fan of Bill Clinton and he was not involved in any of the really interesting political or foreign affairs issues during the Clinton Presidency.  The author basically spiced up or completely wrote humor speeches.<br />The book is not all about the authors interactions with President Clinton.  He spends a good deal of time detailing out his life before his White House days and his work with Dukakis, Madeline Albright, and Al Gore.  But the real interesting details are when the author covers the speech writing process and how ideas were turned into jokes that the President would use.  He also presented some rather sly insights into Clinton the man.   I also found the details of his rise to fame and his going from unknown nobody to the hot new speech writer.  Who would have thought that this would be a business where you could freelance for the President and CEO's in joke writing.  <br />If there was anything disappointing about the book for me it was that the dust jacket tried to make the book out to be a laugh on every page.  Unfortunately I did not find this level of humor, but the book more then made up for this lack of non stop humor with interesting insight and stories about the Clinton White House.  The author even found a way to interject a humor rivalry with Al Franken that was a nice side story.  Overall the book was interesting, easy to read and funny at times.   I found it very enjoyable and refreshingly non partisan.  If you are a fan of the Clinton Administration this could almost be considered a must read given the tone of the book.	2004-06-11
639054:US	41012519	R17AJS2A94C1KV	156584260X	345811220	The Way Things Aren't: Rush Limbaugh's Reign of Error : Over 100 Outrageously False and Foolish Statements from America's Most Powerful Radio and TV	Books	4	29	35	N	N	The Way Things Should Be	This book is like going to a fast food restaurant, it is fast, cheap and tasty yet you know the nutritional value is not the best.  I am not a fan of Rush, thus my book choice, so reading books like this that spell out many of his errors are just a laugh a minute to read.  If you have even found this book then you are probably also an anti Rush person and regardless of the content, as long as it was somewhat negative, you are going to like the book.  This book should fit that need.  To be fair the book is not really negative, other then a few funny shots at Rush's ego, the book is very fair.  It simply takes statements Rush has made over the years and spells out the truth.    The authors list out their sources and from where the Rush comment came from.  I guess my only complaint with the book is that given many of the Rush comments were simple sentences, a Rush supporter could always make the claim that the comment was taken out of context.  To avoid that I would have liked the authors to add a bit more of the Rush words before and after the comments.  Yet this is a small complaint on my part and does not really take away from the enjoyment of the book.       Toward the end of the book I started to appreciate a comment the authors started the book with.  They  stated that although they could list literally 1000's of errors, they were going to limit the book to 100 given that any more and the reader might lose interest.  I certainly felt that I had hit my limit toward the end of the book.  As I read the book I kept hearing Rush in my head and after about 100 pages, it was all I could stomach.  Overall the book was a nice time waster, not too heavy and fast and easy to read.  Did it provide any deep thought or interesting conclusions about the effect Rush has on the current Republican Party or the public as a whole, no.  It just laid out many of his more bone headed comments.  Would this book change any minds, again I doubt it.  If you dislike Rush then you will get akick out of the book.	2004-06-07
640669:US	41012519	R2RZ3WKOUWLDBN	0471483850	55110870	Bush's War For Reelection: Iraq, the White House, and the People	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Authors Struggle For Direction	There were three reasons that I bought this book, the first is that I read the authors other book on Bush, Bush's Brain, and found it a wonderful book.  The second reason is that I tend to read a number of anti Bush books so this was just one more to add to the collection.  And lastly, with a goofy picture of Bush on the cover of the book I just figured the book would be full of sharp barbs and nasty zingers aimed at Team Bush that would make for happy reading for me.  Unfortunately for me, my high expectations for the book did not materialize.  I found the book to ramble from one area to another, which were tied together by only, at times, a passing link to Bush Jr.  I was thinking I was going to get a detailed account of how the Bush Administration used over the top partisan politics to lead the country to war.  Maybe also an interesting view into how the author feels the war will effect the 2004 election.  This framework did not really come together.   The author focused on numerous other areas that took focus and energy away from a look at the Bush Administration.<br />I do not what this review to be all negative as that would not be fair to the book.   The author provided a very interesting review of the actions of the 507th in Iraqi and the ambush that resulted in numerous deaths and the capture of Jessica Lynch.  The author is good at this type of reporting and you could really get a sense of the battle form his writing.   He also gave the reader a nice overview of the Ambassador Wilson story and the publication of his wife's name in the press.    It was such a good overview that I am wondering if I even need to read the Wilson book.   I doubt there is a book that goes into more detail on the Bush Jr. National Guard AWOL story then this book.   You could tell the author was really having fun digging into this dirt.  Where I got disappointed was that the author spent a lot of time on the effects of combat deaths on the people back home.  He did it in a very good way, it was just not the type of book I was looking for.   He then spent a good deal of time tying in Vietnam combat stories to Bush Jr.'s Texas Air Guard days in kind of a compare and contrast between real military heroes and children of the wealthy.  <br />But where I lost respect for the book was in two separate parts where the author slipped into odd conspiracy theories about Bush Jr.  Again I am no fan of the boy king, but reading these types of over the top X Files type innuendo gossip does nobody any good.  The detractors of the book can point to these items to paint the full book and all the important comments in the book as a hate inspired hack job meant to dirty the reputation of a President.  The author tried to claim that one of the military people that saw the \\"cleaning\\" of the Bush guard files has been suffering from some mystery illness and that somehow Team Bush is keeping needed medical treatment away from the guy.  The author then spent the end of the book talking about how the Bush group is in bed with the manufactures of electronic voting machines and that the Max Cleland election was somehow rigged in favor of the Republicans by this shadowy electronic voting.   <br />Overall I had mixed feeling for the book.   The writing was good and most of the reporting seamed solid.  There were sections that I really enjoyed.  It was just that the book went off into directions that I was either not interested in reading about or was so over the top that I came away from the book with a bit of a bad taste in my mouth.	2004-06-06
642594:US	41012519	R2KLNX0X3940UX	1586482181	485666128	Winning Modern Wars: Iraq, Terrorism, and the American Empire	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Writing Useful Books	When I first heard this author was putting out a book it was around the time we was dropping hints that he was going to run for President.  I thought, wow his campaign really is on the ball with the \\"This is why I am running\\" book out before the candidate has even announced.  Then the book comes out and it looks to not be the typical campaign book so I gave it a shot.  The one thing I noticed right away is that either the author hired a better ghost writer, spent more time with the editor or worked on improving his skills because just on the basis of the writing, this book is much better then his first.  It flowed very well and was easy to read.   The issues I have with the book are the content and what the author tried to cover.<br />The author had four sections to the book, a review of the Iraqi war, a discussion on what the Bush team did to sell the war, a brief history of American and it's foreign policy in relation to warfare, and lastly a section on everything that the Bush team is doing to ruin the country.  Any one of these areas could have easy been a full book, two in one book would be tough to get more then a review.  Having all four topics in your book meant that magazine articles have more depth.  To be fair, the first half of the book is the review of the war and I got the feeling after reading the book that is what the author originally meant to cover.  The campaign process must have started about half way through the writing of the book and he needed to get his book out the door with something to differentiate him from Bush Jr.   What ends up happening is that no one area is covered with enough depth and it makes the full book come across to me as either a rush job to cash in or a view into a very shallow man.<br />I do not want to sound all-negative because there were sections of the book I enjoyed.  The review of the war was a nice, quick overview.  The discussion of the lead up to the war and the selective truth telling played out by the Bush administration was interesting if not light.  The book was written in an easy to read manner.  It was just as a whole the book was very lacking, I wanted more on every topic.  A constant theme could be said about the book - time.  The author did not spend enough time on any one topic, the author did not have the time to dig deep into the topics of the book, and the reader does not need a lot of time to finish the book.   I don't even think the book is remotely good at introducing the man as a candidate.  Overall the book was disappointing to me, the required detail was not used to make the book useful and important.  If you are looking for newspaper headline type reviews of the subjects then you will enjoy the book.	2004-06-04
649723:US	41012519	R175XIQ75W4K5K	0688066704	598248981	The Other Side of the Story	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Horror Story in The Making	When I bought this book by the Press Secretary of the Carter Administration two things became glaring apparent to me.   The first is that I am a political junkie and the second was that regardless of how outdated a book, I will read about any memoir of an inside guy.   The book is a bit different from your normal political memoir in that the author focuses exclusively on how the press treated the Carter Presidency and staff.  The author does not give you a historical overview of the administration and how he fit in.  I must say that this was an interesting approach.  Sure the dust jacket said this was the focus of the book, but almost anyone writing a book about their years in the White House always falls in to describing the great things he or she did regardless of the original focus of the book.  The author also did something so few politicians ever do that it is memorable even if it is not that impressive in and off itself, the author detailed out the mistakes he made and took full responsibility for them.       I must say this author took no prisoners when talking about some of the rather dubious and headline grabbing reporting that took place during his time in the White House.  If he had any grudges or complaints about the press that he kept to himself during his years in the administration, they are laid bare in this book.  As I read it I almost would cringe at some of the comments, how he ever thought he would be part of the press community after this book came out is beyond me.  I have to give him credit, he did not take personal shots, he just went after them as professionals and in doing so he detailed out some instances that had to prove rather harmful to the reporters reputations.  It made for some very entertaining and interesting reading.  I actually think this book would be more valuable to someone that is looking into the how the press treats the White House instead of an overview of the Carter years.    My only compliant on the book would be that the author could have used about ten percent more detail on the topics he was covering.  Sure when the book came out the items were still somewhat fresh in the minds of the targeted audience for the book, but the detail would help the reader today.  Overall I did find it interesting and direct.  The author did not water down his comments in the least.  And for you anti Kennedy folks out there, although the author saves some of his best for different members of the press, he overwhelmingly picks on Teddy through the full book.   I got to thinking toward the end of the book if maybe there was not something personal between the two men.   The book probably only interests people looking at how the press deal with the White House or the few political junkies out there that can not get enough political insider books.	2004-05-30
656910:US	41012519	R1PVUTQG9LDGEZ	0684811235	310079292	WHOS IN CONTROL: Polar Politics and the Sensible Center	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Dull All Day	I bought this book because I wanted to find out more about the first Bush administration and thought his comments on his years in the Reagan White House would be an added bonus.  I tend to be a sucker for any inside guy memoir and this book is one of the downfalls of this addiction.  First off the guy was in the budgeting and finance side of government, which should have been an indication to me about his ability as an author, if you spend all your time working with spreadsheets it might not be an easy transition to word processing.  I don't know what bothered me more, the fact that he wrote in a very arrogant way or that he was dull.  I don't think I can describe it other then to say that it felt like I was being talked down to the whole time I was reading the book.  I will give him credit, he did try to make his job with the budget interesting, but there was just too much head wind and he could not break through.  The book turned out to be a bit dry and dull.  <br />He did do a good job of covering the major events that took place during his time in both administrations.  It was just that he did it in a sleep inducing writing style.  This is one of the more positive memoirs around, he could not think of anything negative to say about anyone he came in contact with.   He was even nice about Haig and Regan, too guys that get blasted in about every other Reagan administration book.  He did try and make out one Republican as a bad guy and that was Newt G. He basically said that the reason Bush 1 lost in 1992 was not the no new taxes pledge dust up, the lack of focus on domestic policy, or even the bland campaign; no it was all Newt's fault.  What was so interesting is that he did all this blaming on Newt in a very positive way, you almost had to reread sections to make sure that the author was not somehow stating all this blame was some sort of joke.  <br />There was one man that the author saved all his nasty and negative comments for, yes you guessed it, the favorite Republican whipping boy - Bill Clinton. This was the last section of the book where the author tried to make that point that compromise is the only way most political work gets done and the very polarized government we currently have is not getting it done.  Fair point, but he then proceeds to blame Clinton for about everything under the sun and simply implies that even though Newt is far more partisan, he is only reacting to Clinton.  It was a failed circular argument that reeked of partisan hatred for Clinton.   At least it was an interesting attack on the man, a bit different then many others.  Overall the book was marginally interesting, but the dullness of the book and the arrogance of the author made it painful to read.  The end section that was just a anti Clinton rant was enough to leave a very bad taste in my mouth.	2004-05-24
661379:US	41012519	R1Z8TV4BMKHRXI	0195792742	460570771	The Taliban Phenomenon: Afghanistan 1994-1997	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Here Today Gone Tomorrow	I found this book in a used book store for just a few dollars and thought it would be worth that just get gather a better understanding of this part of the world pre 9-11.  It turned out that the book is worth about what I paid for it.  The book gives the reader an interesting and adequate review of the Taliban take over of Afghanistan.  The book gives the reader a brief, but well thought out history of Afghanistan before the 90's.  The author then covers the Taliban incubation and eventual take over of the country.  What I found so interesting was the almost haphazard way that Mullah Omar created the movement and lead it.  You got the impression from the book that he was as absent from the day to day command of the troops and government functions as would say the Secretary of Defense be involved in a German Base janitorial staff vacation scheduling.       <br />When the book covered the military of all parties involved in the country it almost sounded like a historical overview of USSR equipment from World War 2 to about 1990.  You got to give the Afghani's credit for keeping World War 2 tanks battle ready.  If there is ever any evidence needed to support the argument that all it takes to cause a military issue is a few guys with automatic weapons, the Taliban movement is it.  As far as the great military victory in 2001 of the Northern Alliance, this book might shed some light on the Afgan military strategy.  It looked to me like basically all you need to do to be successful in Afghanistan is to fire a few rounds into the air and start handing out bribes.  The author described the whole country as nothing more then small groups of bandits that will fight for who ever hands out the largest payments.  One other interesting point is that Osama Bin Laden in mentioned a few times in the book, but is basically viewed as an anti Saudi rich guy hanging out.      <br />It was not so much that the book was not complete, I just think any more and the book would have fallen into a serious study of Afghanistan history that would appeal to a small hand full of people.  On the other hand it did not seam to give more then a brief overview of any one particular topic.  Overall I enjoyed the book and found it interesting, but only because of recent history.  It does spend a good amount of time talking about the politics in the region around Afghanistan, which is a good primer for the current international environment and the war on terror.  If you are interested in the topic it is a good general book, if you want an in depth study then this book is probably not for you.	2004-05-20
663172:US	41012519	R3HKD9E678MR0Z	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	4	36	52	N	N	Where Are The Plumbers When You Need Them	I don't know which President would be more offended in being compared to the other, Nixon or GW Bush.  The author, from Watergate fame, discuses the obsessively secret ways the Bush 2 administration operates and tries to draw some parallels with the Nixon administration.  It became clear on about page 5 to me that either GW ran over the authors dog or did something rather mean to one of his kids because there is a very apparent dislike the author has for GW.  Basically the author goes through the, what is becoming familiar, list of both partisan and crony favoritism criticisms of team Bush.   The author details out different areas about the current Bush administration that are issues for him and he relates how these issues are either similar or worse then the actions of tricky Dick.  He also tries to related to how these issues are downright harmful to you and me.  <br />We get a review of the different ways Bush has gone out to his corporate buddies to either help him make policy or just how many over the top favors Team Bush has done for big campaign contributors.  Sure this goes on with all administrations, but the author wants you to believe that Bush is getting an A + for effort in this arena.  The book really gets moving once it gets into both the different ways the President is trying to grab more power for the office of the President and the full set of lies that took us to war in Iraq.  He throws in some interesting, if not a bit dramatic, ways that the actions of Bush Jr. are actually harming the US in regards to terrorism instead of helping.  I don't know if I agreed with all of them, but they are different take on the current situation.   <br />Overall I found the book interesting, but the level of dislike the author has for Bush Jr. comes through on almost every page.  This book was not hard to read and I would assume many people would like the pointed barbs, but if you want the book to have a little bit of credence as a fair and balanced work then I think you have to make it sound a little less nasty.  I also thought the author stopped short on some of his criticisms, a few areas needed a bit more research.  Lastly, the author did give Bush a hard time about either arrogant comments or answers that are nothing more then speaking points when the author did the same thing a number of times in the book.  Not to sound too negative, the book is easy to read and interesting.  If you have a negative opinion of the current President then you will really enjoy this book.  If you are looking for a fair book then this might not be the first on your list.	2004-05-18
669093:US	41012519	R2UE3HI0UCOUZ6	0553067249	264384487	Bare Knuckles and Back Rooms	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Bare Facts	I am a self confessed Democrat and even I loved this book.   The author is as about as right leaning as they come, but that did nothing to diminish the enjoyment any political junkie would get from the book regardless of what side of the spectrum you are on.  The author has been involved in Republican politics sense the Nixon administration and in this book he givens a well written, interesting and humorous account of what he has been a part of.   I would not call this book a kiss and tell, but he does give you the facts in a straight up manner, regardless if it makes his clients or himself look bad.  <br />I found the time he spent on the Reagan and Perot campaigns the most interesting.  The Reagan campaign because he really lays out the best way to run a campaign.  This section of the book could almost be used as a how to tutorial on how to win a race.  I found the Perot campaign info interesting for the exact opposite of the Reagan section.  This guy was a flake and the author captures every odd, weird and down right stupid thing that happened.  The author also talks about his relationship with the first President Bush and lets just say it is very eye opening.  Everything he says about the father can be seen in the son today.  His main point is that the Bush family feels loyalty is the most important trait a person can have and if you cross that line you will be paying for it for years.<br />I enjoyed the fact that the author did not spend exorbitant amounts of time on his pre political history or his family situation, just enough to set the stage.  I may be unique in this regard so if you are looking for an in depth view into his family this is not the book for you.  Overall I really liked the book.   It read fast and it is so interesting I just did not want to put it down.   I read a lot of political books and this ranks up there as at least one of the more entertaining.   If you are interested in the campaign process or the Reagan and Bush years then I would recommend this book regardless of your party affiliation.	2004-05-14
669464:US	41012519	R3NP1AU5B28HSB	1575440636	273581298	Anatomy Of A Scandal	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Research Required	The fact that I have read this book now instead of when it came out in 1998 is the reason I am not giving it the highest rating.   The book covers the \\"vast right wing conspiracy\\" that was after President Clinton all through his two terms.  The author hits on the major players of the day, from Newt to Rush and all the accusers.  He also touches on the links that brought them all together and got the full GOP signing from the same hymnal.  He also does a lot of reporting on Rush.   I have a sneaking suspicion, well ok the author basically screams it at the reader, that he does not like Rush.  There is more detail here about Rush then even the anti Rush books have.  Don't get me wrong, I liked all the dirt, but it got away from the general theme of the book.  The author also spends a good deal of time on the notable television evangelists of the day and there efforts to demonize Clinton. <br />The problem I have with the book is that the author did not link all the players and issues together completely.  It could have been due to the timing of the book, maybe all the details were not out in the public or it could have been that the author just did not do a good job in the research.  It just seamed to me that he stopped at about the good enough stage and did not complete the job.  The chapters just did not flow together well.   It gave the book an overall jumpy fell that made it less enjoyable to read.  You get the general idea but the real glue that would tie all these folks together was not articulated well.<br />Overall I did like the book.  It covers a lot of the dirty tricks that the GOP was doing during the Clinton years and it opens your eyes to just how nasty politics has become.   I would think that if you have not read a book on this topic yet that this is a great starter book.   The best books on the topic that I have read would be the books Hunting for the President or Blinded by the Right.  If you are a Clinton fan or just want to know more about the witch hunts of the 90's this id a good place to start.	2004-05-13
670119:US	41012519	R3TDPTN0CHC8LK	0143014234	235787889	Fire and Ice: The United States, Canada and the Myth of Converging Values	Books	3	51	58	N	N	A Little More Snow Melt Needed	I bought this book because I am an American who just moved to Canada and you can not go into a book shop without having this book prominently displayed.   It is everywhere so I figured \\"when in Rome\\" and picked up a copy.   The book is the detail of the authors studies of the American and Canadian cultures and if they are becoming more similar or growing apart.  The author lets the reader know up front two very important things, first that the book is meant for a Canadian audience and secondly that the author is a full time professional sociological researcher. <br />For the first important point, that the book is meant for a Canadian audience, if you are a thin skinned American then I would not suggest you reading this book.  It is not that the author takes any nasty cheap shots at Americans.  It is just that he does not sugar coat the differences when they are more negative toward the American side.  I could not argue with any of his comments, it was just that he was exposing some of the rather unsightly bits about the US and at times that can be uncomfortable for an American.<br />The second point I felt was important was that the author is not an author by trade, but basically a researcher.  This meant that this book was one of the most difficult to read and unnecessarily dense books I have read in a long time.  If the author could have said a sentence in five words he used 25 and used a fair number a words that the common reader has never heard of.  If you buy the book keep going through the painful first chapter, the road gets better after about 40 pages but the book is never a walk in the park.  <br />With these criticisms aside I did find parts of the book interesting.  It would be good for an American to read these types of books to detail out the differences between the two countries and maybe to show them that all things American are not always the best.   It is just that this book is so unfriendly to the reader that I do not think this is the vehicle forwide appeal.	2004-05-13
671212:US	41012519	R2UDCF5J6P682K	0060929081	900958788	Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam	Books	4	65	69	N	N	The Duty To Tell The Truth	Given all the current talk about how the current Iraq war is or is not turning into a new Vietnam I thought this book would be an interesting read.  What I found was a book that described a presidency that was so concerned with their political standing that they were almost incapable of determining a course of action and following it.  The author spent time reviewing all the documents and tapes he could get his hands on to try and figure out what really happened with the war and where did the US lose the war.  What the reader is shown is that first off the main players in the war strategy, the Joint Chief's of staff verses the President and the Secretary of Defense all distrusted each other and were working toward different ends.  LBJ continued to make personnel decisions regarding the leaders of the armed services to put men that he could control instead of the best men for the job.  This created a major riff between the players that really need to be working as a close team during a war.   <br />The second item that really came to the forefront of the book was the down right lying that LBJ was doing too basically the whole country.  He would tell Congress one story, Military staff another and the public a third story.   None of which was too close to the truth.  What makes this so interesting to me is that it was this continual shading of the truth that eventually caught up with LBJ and caused the war to become such a mess and his popularity to fall so low.  IF he would have been above board and honest there is a good chance that the US would not have gotten so deep into the war and LBJ would have coasted into a second term.  If ever there is a case study in how not to conduct a war, at least from the political side, this is it.  I am sure that LBJ thought his activities would work based on his experience on all other political matters and his arm twisting way to move social legislation through Congress, but it failed with Vietnam.   <br />If I have one complaintabout the book it is that the author left out of the text a certain zip that would make that book a great read.  The book is full of details and the conclusions are very well laid out.  It is just that the somehow the author chose some very bland ways of detailing items.  It is not to say that the book is bad, not by a long shot.  It is just that the book is not the type to keep you up all night reading it.  Overall I enjoyed the book, even if it was a bit wooden.  For any of you that are interested in trying to draw analogies with the current war and this war, this is a good book that will send you in the direction.	2004-05-12
673546:US	41012519	R1QS82M6UC7Q3Y	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Executed Completely	To be up front with you I have always been a fan of Bob Woodward and I read any book he puts out.  Given this fact and that I am a political junky I was excited to dig into this book.  I was not disappointed.  I think this is the best book he has put out sense his Watergate days.   All the Woodward hallmarks are in the book, great he said / she said quotes, a well put together flow and the ability to move the story along with excitement and little known interesting bits lost by many other authors.  He is also very good at getting the personalities behind the men and women he reports on without over blow commentary.  Because of all the quotes you start to understand what is behind the main players, you start to think you can understand how they are thinking.  It really is almost like you are a part of the process, not just reading a book.<br />You have probably heard all the gossipy or headline grabbing items from the book by now, the Powell flair-ups with about everybody else, the fact that Bush told Saudi Arabia before he told a number of other people within the government etc.  What I found one of the more interesting parts of the book was the detail on the CIA operation that was running in the country during 2003.  This was exciting stuff, a real life Clancy novel right in the middle of history.  What surprised me was that we did not have similar successful operations before the very start of the war.  Maybe if more time had spent here the confusion on the Weapons of Mass Destruction would not have taken place.  The fact that we had pin pointed Saddam and his family down to within hours and almost got him is exciting reading.  <br />I did find that the detail of the conversations Bush had with other world leaders to be a little sparse.  Now whether that is due to there being restrictions as to what could be reported or if Bush just did not talk to the other leaders of the world is not clearly stated within the book and we will have to assume one version or another.  The detail of the inter Secretary squabbles was well worth the time and it more then made up for any lacking French - US interactions.   Overall I really enjoyed the book.  It is the first cut of history and I doubt the author could have done a better job unless we would have been part of the events as they were taking place.   The only unresolved question I had is whether Bush and Cheney decided to go to war with Iraq before they won the election or shortly afterward.   If you are interested in the war or current events you will enjoy this book a good deal.	2004-05-10
675146:US	41012519	R39PHXV9VILMYI	1893956393	29457971	Target Iraq: What the News Media Didn't Tell You	Books	3	15	26	N	N	What The Authors Do Not Tell You	To put this review in context, I have read a number of books covering the lead up to the latest war in Iraq so my expectation level continues to increase in regards to the quality and completeness of any book on the topic.  I thought this book was either going to offer a critique of the news media and their reporting, the propaganda, for lack of a better term, that was put out by the Bush team or even interesting facts about the current Iraq.  Well, the authors tried to touch on all these topics, but did so is such a slap dash method that it left me wanting more in every regard.  First off the book, like many of its kind, has a very anti war bias.  That is about what you would expect from this area of literature, but it is always nice if the authors can reign in their comments to present a book that can a least have passing reference to fairness.  These authors did no such thing and at times I felt they were actually egging on the anti war sentiment and playing up the whole Iraq sanctions horrors play book.  Again there is nothing wrong with this, but it makes the book appeal to only the truly hard core anti war or anti Bush reader.<br />Back to the substance of the book and as stated earlier it was just that the authors either did not have the time or the patience to truly develop any of the themes they were talking about.   They presented chapters with the broad overview, but left the reader wanting more.  Given the very obvious bias to the book, I would have thought they would have at lest spent the time to fully develop or at least bog the critic down with page after page of facts.   They did not.   To cap it off they tossed n a speech of President Bush with rolling commentary.  A great idea, but the execution was paltry at best.  They relied on inflammatory statements instead of detailed factual rebuttals.  In the end their comments on the speech were no better then the speech itself.<br />Overall I came away from the book thinking it was nothing more then a quickly put out money grab.  There were some interesting details on what life is like in Iraq and a review of UN Security Counsel resolutions, but not enough.   I would suggest you continue searching if you are looking for a well researched and formulated anti war book.  On the other had if you have your mind made up and just want to read a book that will agree with your position then this book is a nice time killer.	2004-05-09
676539:US	41012519	R34FBENYEPJ4LU	0060155604	375180247	The Triumph of Politics: Why the Reagan Revolution Failed	Books	3	45	51	N	N	A Failure in Editing	If I had to describe this book in one sentence it would be Hunter Thompson meets Alan Greenspan.  The author had a writing style that was machine gun fast with the sentences almost slapping you to attention.  But before you jump into the book I would suggest digging up those old college Finance, Accounting and Economics textbooks because this author does not provide a basic course in government budgetary matters, you have to earn this books respect.  The uniqueness of the book does not stop there; I have never read a book with more nicknames and odd adjectives used in describing people and events.  It was almost if the author had some odd personality defect that forced him to ascribe nicknames to people.   <br />The author covers his years in the OMB for Reagan, but to be fair he really spends about 80% of the book on the first budget and the process he went through to get it passed into law.   If you are a fan of detail, this book has it by the bushel full.  He takes the reader into every meeting, phone conversation and thought about the process.  You see just exactly how much horse-trading and arm-twisting there is in this process and you come away feeling a little unclean.  This is where the author finally comes to his point, which is that, the Reagan revolutions plan of dramatically reduced tax rates and government services failed.  The tax cuts happened, but the spending reductions never had a chance.  This, of course, created the massive government deficits that we have been living with for the past 20 plus years. Overall this is the most interesting part of the book.  His realization that the budgets he worked on and the overall outcome could be more harmful to the long term interests of the US then if the old system would have been left in place.          <br />Let me end this review by stating that I have never read a book by anybody so conservative as this man.   Conservative is being kind, he is a hard core Libertarian who comes across as the only good government program is a dead government program type.  He railed against all programs, even taking on school lunches for poor kids and wheel chair assistance programs for the poor.  He could not stand government regulations either.  He went into one section stating that seat belt and safety glass requirements for car manufactures were unnecessary and overbearing government intrusions into the private sector.  Overall I felt the book was a bit too jumpy for me in the writing style and the detail was about 25% too much.  There are interesting parts, but describing the 5th meeting on some section of the budget was a bit dull.	2004-05-07
684236:US	41012519	RJ0MMENZQDADM	B0000W70C4	63693352	Ambling Into History: The Unlikely Odyssey of George W. Bush	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sneaking Into The Positive Column	I am not a big fan of President Bush and I really only picked this book up to find out more of what the campaign was like covering Bush.  The author details out the year plus that he followed Bush through the campaign and then the first year of his Presidency up to December.  My first impressions of the book was that the author was very quick witted, humorous and an excellent writer.  The book really flowed well and I found I would lose track of time, as I was so into the book.   The next impression I came away with was that I was starting to find a soft spot for this Bush character.  The author does a great job of detailing out who the real G. W. Bush is.  The reader comes away with a view of him that is not like the current partisan one-sided comments that fill up the media.<br />The author spends the time to provide stories and antidotes that get past the superficial view of the President and presents a man that has a full helping of charisma and is one of those kind of people that everybody who meets them wants to spend more time with him.  Again I am no fan of President Bush and do not plan on becoming one, but this book knocks off some of the negative side of the perception I had of the man.  That is not to say that this book is some sort of pro Bush propaganda puff piece.  I think it details just the opposite.  There is no end to the mistakes and overall questions about G.W. that the author details in the book.  He spends a good deal of time talking about the relationship G.W. has with his father and Jeb and the picture is not always positive.  The author also does a good job off covering the questions of if G.W. was up for the job both intellectually and stylistically.<br />You can tell the author gains more respect for G.W after the 9-11 attack.  He starts to feel that Bush has earned the positive opinion that the author has generated for him.  It is interesting that the negatives the author brings out do not stop.  Through the full book the author never shies away from less then positive issues for Bush and comes to some conclusions that the rabid Bush supporter would cringe at.   It is just that he presents Bush is such a warm and personable light that you want to look past the negative items and just see the good side of the man.  This is probably the key to any politician and Bush is in the right line of work.  To be a complete review I would say that this book is not an in depth view at the politics of the campaign or of the first year of Bush's Presidency, but rather an good look at the personality of the man.  Overall the book is interesting and a very enjoyable read.  If you are either a fan of President Bush or have an open mind about him then you will probably enjoy the book as much as I did.	2004-05-02
685588:US	41012519	R3NZY7BC8VT12D	0895260743	350381184	Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror	Books	2	71	103	N	N	Losing Your Objectivity	Judging by the title of the book and the cover art, this would normally not be a book I would pick up.  An acquaintance told me the book was worth the time so I gave it a chance.  Although I tend to lean a bit left, I believe I can maintain an open mind and fair assessment of any particular book I read.   With this said maybe I should start with what I found positive about the book.   Overall the author does provide a nice review of the attacks by Bin Laden against the US.   The author details out the timeline with interesting facts and a nice overview.  I kept thinking that this book, at least when covering facts, was rather close in its content to the recent Richard Clarke book.  A fact that would probably make the partisan audience of this book a bit unhappy.  I found it interesting that the author stood up for Clarke through the book.  Again a position that is probably not very popular today for a conservative audience.  <br />My concern with the book started almost from the first pages.  There was not one missed opportunity where the author did not slip in negative comments on Clinton, whether they were warranted or not.   The author blamed Clinton for errors low-level staff made and stated he was responsible for missed opportunities when he or his administration did not know about them.  The author stated on one hand that Clinton should have strongly reacted to a terrorist bombing that happened months before he became President, but does not hold that same view with the Bush administration and the Cole attack.  The author blames Clinton for failures allowing the first WTC attack (during the start of his administration), but does not hold the same level of performance for Bush and 9-11.  And in what I found the most hypocritical section of the book the author pulls no punches when talking about the mistaken Aspirin factory bombing in the Sudan and how large of an error it was, but then complains when the Clinton administration shows restraint later in 1999 and2000 with other attacks due to vague intelligence.  It just seemed to me that the author based his book on a bias against Clinton and would fit the story to fulfill that bias. <br />I guess the last straw for me was the last ten pages of the book where the author tries to tie Saddam to Bin Laden.  Keeping aside the rather over barring news media comments over the past year that report there was no connection between these two, even President Bush has said Saddam had nothing to do with the 9-11 attacks or Bin Laden.  If there is one person in the world that would like this connection to be proven it is president Bush and even he is not standing by this canard.  Overall the book does offer some interesting points and a good overview of Bin Laden's attacks during the Clinton Administration.  The book is bias and if you are looking for anti Clinton literature then you will be happy you bought the book.   If you are looking for a little less negative view of the Clinton Administration I would suggest the Clarke book.	2004-04-30
688553:US	41012519	R1VR83FZ3675Y2	0679456813	913344472	Nixon Off the Record : His Candid Commentary on People and Politics	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Should Have Been On The Couch	If you ever wondered what an ex President might talk about with his friends then you need to buy this book, a real fly on the wall type book.  I have to admit up front that I really liked this book.   It was not that I have a deep interest in Nixon or that Nixon spelled out some overly insightful view of the political landscape.  It was just that this author did such a good job of detailing out (quoting) so many of Nixon's musings about the political landscape from 90 to 94.  I was most surprised at how petty he came off.  He was whining and complaining about the press in about every three sentences.  Regardless of the situation, he somehow related it back to how the press and Democrats unfairly went after him during the Watergate scandal.  At this point in his life he must have focused on it so much that he saw the whole world through this hate filled prism.  <br />I guess it was not such a surprise about Nixon disliking the press, but what did surprise me is that it seamed that he disliked any President that came after him.  In his mind, they all fell short of his accomplishments and were far from a close second.  He of course would then work in a diatribe about the press and how they will never give him the credit he deserves.   It was interesting that he had such a low opinion of Bush Sr., he went after Bush on the poor reelection campaign, which was fair enough, but he also let him have it about every aspect of his Presidency.  Yet his opinion would change the minute anyone in the Bush administration called him.  Once he was shown some attention his opinion would suddenly change and all was right again with Bush, at least for a few weeks.  I was surprised by this very apparent selfish and almost immature behavior.<br />I was again surprised by his roller coaster ride with President Clinton, during the campaign he down right hated the man.   Once Clinton became the President and started calling Nixon, he is thought of by Nixon as FDR reincarnated.  Well it was very predictable that when Clinton started to distance himself from Nixon that the ugly side of tricky Dick came back into the picture.  Overall Nixon came off as a man with a very bruised ego and a bit bitter.  I thought he some good views on the political situation of the time, but it was basically common sense.  I kept thinking that if you follow politics you would have many of the same observations.   I guess I just thought given his long career that he would somehow have insight that really would have surprised me.   Overall the book was very interesting and a fast read.   I had trouble putting it down.    If you are interested in American politics then this a great book.	2004-04-28
693104:US	41012519	R2BDC98QQ4YE4W	1401301150	530101513	A Fist In the Hornet's Nest: On the Ground In Baghdad Before, During & After the War	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Call the Bee Keeper	This book is full of youthful exuberance, fear, concern and wonder.  It is the story of a rather self-starter of a reporter and his time covering the war in Iraq.   The author starts that book with a chapter on how he moved from the US to the Middle East to start a career in journalism.  He then jumps into the path he took going into Iraq without a news organization to work for and on a \\"Human Shield\\" visa.  I could not tell if this very risky adventure was all bravery, desperation or stupidity, but it worked out for the author.  It is a lesson in how corrupt and lazy government officials can be paid off for rather small amounts of good old cash.<br />The author covers the pre war condition in Baghdad and what it takes to survive.  The picture he paints is very interesting.   It turned on my head a number of the recent impressions I had heard about the conditions in Iraq pre war.   He does state it was difficult, but he could find the essentials for life in the markets.  I was surprised by some of the rather carefree ways he was able to lose his minders and roam around town talking to whomever he wanted to.  It started me thinking that if a young reporter with no experience in Baghdad can do this then why could not professional CIA staff been able to do the same?    <br />The book picks up with the war and the author has some interesting, but not overly exciting experiences to share.  As he was not an embedded reporter, he saw the war from the finish line so that once Baghdad fell his brief glimpse of war was over.   He then covered the turmoil after the American army took over, the looting and random violence.  If you followed the war on TV this reporting was nothing really that new or exciting, but very interesting.   Overall the book was good, easy to read and fast paced.  It did slow down at the end when the author went from reporting to providing his opinions on what the military and Bush Administration did not do correctly in a Monday morning quarterback style.  The book just did not have enough extra to get it to the top of the charts in my opinion.	2004-04-25
694460:US	41012519	RQILOVWBN3KYF	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Child Emperor and Dark Genius	As I read this book I did not get the feeling that Paul O'Neill was a bitter man even though the current administration tried to portray him as such.  I found the telling of the story by the author as a rather straight-laced account.  In this I mean that many times the author could have tossed in nasty little comments that a true Bush hater would say, but they were not to be found.   This is not to say that O'Neill likes President Bush, you could tell that he does not about 50 pages into the book once the author started to detail President Bush and O'Neill working together.  The description of the relationship starts out respectful, and then moves to puzzlement and then straight into a level of dislike and disappointment.  O'Neill comes across as truly disappointed by the abilities, at least in the cognitive abilities and focus, of President Bush. <br />I found the detail of the meetings that O'Neill had with both the President and Vice President as the most interesting and insightful parts of the book.  The author describes the experience of working in the Bush Administration like something out of a 1940's white color sweatshop managed by an egomaniac.  You have Bush acting in some sort of child emperor role who knows he is in the back of the bus when it comes to brainpower so he uses intimidation to try and level the playing field.  The Vice President comes across like some sort of mad bomber dark genius type that is really behind the curtain puling all the strings.  It is truly a spooky picture the author paints.  If we were not living it you would think this book was an Oliver Stone movie script, it is just that odd and scary.       <br />The one area I found rather humorous was the healthy sized ego O'Neill has himself.  All through the book he was detailing out instance after instance where O'Neill was giving other government officials advice on how they need to handle their environments.   From the Department of Defense to the Department of the Interior, O'Neill had the correct path already figured out.  You know he has a massive ego because he let the author detail out this \\"know it all attitude\\" that led him to opine on almost every government issue big or small.   The reason I am not giving the book 5 stars is that the author slipped into some rather bone crushing dull moments when talking about economics and the EPA.  It was all I could do to get through these parts of the book and I am interested in the topic.  Overall the book was very interesting and well worth the time to read.  It is a great view into the Bush Administration and provides the reader a rather eye opening view into what is going on today.	2004-04-24
699086:US	41012519	R2YDHERJBJIYI8	1560255080	205134163	The I Hate Republicans Reader: Why the GOP Is Totally Wrong About Everything ("I Hate" Series, The)	Books	4	36	46	N	N	I Really Dont	I almost feel a slight bit embarrassed to review this book given that it is proof I have dug into the very partisan grab bag of hate books.  My only excuse is that I was at an airport during a late night connecting flight lay over and had finished the book I brought.   I figured this book would provide me enough humor and outrage to keep me up the remaining hours of my trip.  First off the title of the book is all wrong, the book focused about 80% of the time on the current Bush Administration.  The other 20% was throw in filler from past years going all the way back to Reagan.  It is really just one more book that is after Bush Jr. and I assume that putting his name in the title in place of Republican might have been too much.  Sure the book was interesting, but the through-ins from past administrations tended to slow down the rhythm and flow of the book.  The book is divided into chapters with about 2 - 3 columns or book chapters from different progressive or liberal authors.  For the most part the editor did a good job of arranging the sections.<br />As I said the book is heavily weighted to the current Bush team and the different issues that have outraged the left leaning of us.  All the favorites are here, the rolling back of environmental laws, the tax cuts for the wealthy, and the war in Iraq etc.  As I tend to read a lot of progressive publications and books I found many of the sections of the book to be repeats of items I have already read. This was a disappointment for me, but if you are just dabbing your foot into this type of reading then it will be new and probably enjoyable.  I just felt that the editors probably could have not included the pre Bush Jr. items and still had an entertaining book.  <br />Overall I would say that this is an above average book for someone looking to feed his or her all ready strong negative perceptions and thoughts about the GOP.  This editor did not go out of his way to try and present balanced articles about this issue and there are no \\"fair and balanced\\" rebuttal pieces to be found within miles of the book.  The book is for the hard core Democratic base and is basically a response to the Coulter's and Hannity's of the publishing world.   If you are looking for nothing more the an anti Bush Jr. book then this is just as good as any compilation book out there.  It falls a bit short if you want more then just rhetoric and want to dig into the issues.	2004-04-20
699228:US	41012519	R1YNL513IJ97HB	1400049555	326988189	Like No Other Time: The 107th Congress and the Two Years That Changed America Forever	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Anthrax Book	Tom Daschle wrote this book with another author, or I think he dictated the book to the author would the produced what we have to read.  I felt this way after reading the text because the book reads like a two hour C-SPAN interview without the questions.  I may be a little too hard on the team here, but I wanted more then just some rambling account of these two years.  I was looking for behind the scenes, blow by blow accounts of some of the political battles Daschle was involved in.  I wanted dialog like Woodward always seems to fill his books up with.   His guy was meeting with the President and all the other highest-ranking members of the government and he could barely give me the details of when or if he talked to them let alone a good feel for the conversation.<br />The book spends about 40% of its time on the anthrax attacks to his office and about 5% on the attacks on 9-11.  Ok, I understand that his office received one of the letters, but in the big picture of the past two years, September 11th and what he was involved in is more important and interesting to me then his office being off limits for a few months.  And what is a bit of a pet peeve of mine, this book is about the 107th Congress, I would have appreciated it if the author could have held his ego in check and not given me the Cliff Notes version of his biography.  All it did for me was to get me to skip pages.<br />I should not spend all my time on the negatives.   I found the information on the Jim Jeffords switch very interesting as well as the information on the homeland security and Iraq war bills.  I thought his comments on the Wellstone memorial service to be insightful and a bit surprising.  The author did have an interesting insight into the process and I found a lot of what he had to say informative.  Overall, the book was easy to read and full of good information.  I will give it credit for that, it is just that I expected and wanted more.   Maybe the author is holding back for his end ofcareer memoirs to give us the really good inside stuff I was looking for.	2004-04-20
704255:US	41012519	R31FQ47ESYMBMN	0684833468	808769235	War Without Bloodshed	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Battles of the 90s	The only reason I found and bought this book was because of the author Eleanor Clift.  I am a fan of the \\"McLaughlin Group\\" and always have thought she holds her own most of the time.  This book is a review of some Washington DC insiders and how they handled the Clinton Heath Care debate in the mid 1990's.  The authors introduce us to 8 different members of the political establishment from pollsters to the Speaker of the House.  Not only did I find the mini biographies of the individuals interesting, but I always enjoyed the way the author was able to take the heath care issue and weave it through the 8 characters chapters.   It gave the reader a very good understanding of how different parts of the political machine handle and deal with a bill or issue.  <br />I found the section on Gingrich probably the most interesting.  I have never been fond of the man and this book gave me about 100 pages full of reasons to still dislike him.  I am completely biased on this point, but I think the authors were fair in their treatment of him and he still came off is a bad light.  I have the opinion that there is no fair telling of his actions in the mid 90's that would not show him in a negative manner.  The other area I found the most interesting was the description of what the lobbyist, covered in the book, really does.  I had always assumed it was a lot of bought lunches, dinners out and back room arm-twisting, but it is really just presenting the case of the clients over and over again to try and sway opinion.   <br />Overall I found the book interesting for the most part.  There were some areas that tended to drag.  The section that covered the representative from California was a bit dull to me because I did not find the inter-workings she had with the others in the book to be a detailed or rich.  If you are a die-hard political fan, interested in the politics around the Clinton failed heath care plan or are just looking for more detail on one of the subjects covered in the book, you will enjoy it.	2004-04-16
709367:US	41012519	R2IN4K53XD6IQJ	0830634991	198921833	Emergency!: Crisis in the Cockpit	Books	2	2	8	N	N	A Crisis in the Text	The only crisis I found with the book is hat the text does not live up to the title.  I wanted a bunch of near death airline crashes or near crashes - - the type where the plane ends up in a field in a number of peaces but people walk away.   I wanted a minute-by-minute, blow-by-blow account.  Unfortunately, that was not what this book gave me.   It covered a bunch of individual occurrences of problems that happened just short of the crashes I wanted to read about.   Don't get me wrong; I am not some sick person who is only interested in death and destruction.  I was mostly interested in what happens to the machines that causes their problems and how the pilots and the air traffic controllers handle the situation.  <br />I have read a number of other books by this author and found them to be a cut above average.  It was just that the author has a rather dry way of story telling and the stories were not edge of the chair types.   These two items combined to provide me a book that was less then what I was looking for.   He is a much better author for technical and dry reviews of aircraft or reasons for aircraft crashes then tying to excite the reader with near misses.  As an example of what I was looking for, if you too are looking for an exciting and interesting book, I would suggest the book Nine Minutes, Twenty Seconds: A True Story of Tragedy and Triumph by Gary M. Pomerantz.  Nine Minutes is a wonderful book that literally blows the doors of this meager offering by Stewart.  Overall I was disappointed and would not suggest this book unless you are a true fan of the author.	2004-04-12
709652:US	41012519	R34IZX9X9UV34O	0471423270	938357392	Bush's Brain: How Karl Rove Made George W. Bush Presidential	Books	5	21	22	N	N	This is your Brain on Stand By	I do not know if the authors set out to make Karl Rove out to be such a dark, evil man with the book or that is just where the research took them, but I doubt too many readers will come away thinking that Karl Rove is anything but.  I think the first thing that struck me is that the authors portray Rove as more then just your run of the mill political consultant.  They want you to leave with the impression that Rove is the man behind the curtain pulling all the strings of the Bush presidency.  They detail how Rove's influence goes beyond just the political front to be an all-encompassing review of anything Bush does.  I think we have all heard how President Clinton seemed to take the pulse of the country via polls and then choose his direction based on the polls.  Well the authors want you to think that Bush basically has substituted the polls and maybe even an individual thought process with whatever King Karl wants to do.  <br />The book provides some background on Karl, how he started in politics and his life before GW.  I found the section detailing the work he did for the first President Bush too limited and the detail about Rove's non-Bush work too detailed.  The authors get into the weeds to prove a point that Rove is a rather mean player in the world of politics and I think they could have edited some of it out.  This background and the detail on his work with Bush all point to some interesting things that do seem to be playing out today.  They state that Rove is the kind of man that has to win and by winning it means really making the opponent lose and lose big.   They also point out that Karl is a very good player at the down and dirty art of nasty politics.   He would make the Nixon team take a step back.   <br />The one area you always have to be on the look out for in books like this is down right bias based on a dislike for the President.  To be fair I think the authors steered clear of this for the most part.   I felt there were plenty of opportunities for the authors to take more shots at President Bush and they did not.   That is not to say that President Bush gets away scott free.   They do lay a few jabs at him for seaming to let Karl play the game so nasty and for enabling this winner take all approach Rove has taken.   They state clearly that Karl is a great political operator, but if he is your only close confidant there could be extreme pressures to let him and his slash and burn style take over for your own.  Overall I found the book very entertaining.  It offers and insight into a man we do not get a lot of information about and a process that does not see the light of day much.  If you are interested in politics or the Bush Presidency you will be interested in this book.	2004-04-12
712005:US	41012519	R28RFNAE9LTGON	0760315000	593171470	Tanks: The World's Best Tanks in 500 Great Photos (The 500 Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Nice and Light Overview	I have always liked books like this.  Basically they are picture books for adult Arm Chair Generals.  The book delivers exactly what it advertised, pictures and brief descriptions of tanks, both heavy and light, which have been used since World War 1.  The book starts with an opening chapter that gives a nice if not overly high-level review of tank development over the years.  It then lists the countries that have produced tanks and the tanks they have created over the years.  There is not a lot of detail; for the most part there are single pictures and a short blurb covering the tanks.  But again this book does not present itself as a detailed review, just a nice overview of what has taken place over the years in tank development.<br />If I were to raise any criticism about the book it would be that the authors could have given us a chapter or two for each country giving a high level overview.  They also were not complete in which countries the tanks were sold to, if they are still used and what battles the tanks took part in.   One last bit I would have liked would have been an overview of how the tanks performed in combat when they had been so engaged.  Overall this is a light and nice overview of the tanks that are out and about today.  I think you will come away surprised at the number of countries that are currently producing tanks.  If you are looking for detailed specs on tanks or in depth reviews of them then this book is not for you.	2004-04-10
713170:US	41012519	RR5G5W2QQDUKB	0316359556	44102070	The Dark Side of Camelot	Books	4	15	21	N	N	The Under Side of the Sheets	I was born after the Kennedy Administration so I do not have the nostalgic feelings for him that many people do.  I picked this book up to get a little less fawning impression of him then some other books tend to portray and for some good old fashion dirt.    I have also read some other books by this author so I new him to be a straight shooter.  Well, I was not disappointed.  This book covered JFK's father, grandfather, campaign and full presidency and my impression is that the author left no rock or bed sheet left unturned.  Before I go further I should add that I have read any number of political books that are basically hatchet jobs and I was a little concerned this book would fall into that category.  I was pleasantly surprised that the author was able to present all the unflattering bits in a very evenhanded manner.  The author could have tossed in little nasty comments here and there, but did not.  He stuck to a very \\"just the facts\\" type of reporting.    <br />The book covered some very interesting parts about the campaign and the unique financing that took place.  The author did not pull punches, he detailed out vote buying to a rather large degree.  The one area that was left unsaid was just how prevalent was this behavior.  This is not an excuse, but if the Kennedy team was just doing what every politician had and was doing up to that point, the activity is not as exciting and revolting as the author stated.  For me the other two most interesting parts were the detail on Cuba and Berlin.  I was not upset or surprised at what the administration was doing to try and get rid of Castro.  I think we all know about the Bay of Pigs and the attempt to have Castro killed.  This book just filled in a lot of nice details.  Again the author tried to make these activities far more scandalous then they were given the times that they took place in.  Sure, if these activities were taking place today it would be a \\"blank gate\\" of some sort, but back then this was just howthe game was played.   <br />The most overriding theme of the book was the extramarital affairs JFK was involved in during his term.  At first this was rather interesting in a playboy sort of way.  How he carried on like this was a bit of every high school boys adolescent dream come true.  It was just that it got to be too much of a good thing.  In almost every chapter of the book we get details about this woman or that woman.  At about the mid point of the book I was thinking, \\"Ok, I got it - he was a playboy -lets move on\\".  It just got to be a distraction within the book.  My only other complaint would be that the author tried to make hay about the political trip to Dallas that resulted in JFK's assassination.  He tried to imply that the choices JFK made resulted in his death.   I thought this was a bit of a reach.   Overall the book was interesting if not a bit over the top on the woman issue.   If you are a big fan of JFK you will want to stay away, but if you are looking for more interesting and in depth look at the man then this would be a nice addition to your JFK reading.	2004-04-09
719455:US	41012519	R195GD8C9UG1RK	0375423028	138551091	Disarming Iraq	Books	3	12	24	N	N	Boring, Bland and Blix	I visited Stockholm once and found it a wonderful city.  There was so much to explore, a rich historical display with any number of museums and historic places.  The city was interesting in its architecture and the people were very accommodating and nice.  I mention this because I incorrectly assumed that this book would be similar given the Hanz Blix is, at the moment, the most well know Swede about.  Unfortunately for me and most any other reader, Hanz is not Stockholm.  This book was earth shatteringly dull, being exposed to WMD's would have been preferable then sitting through another chapter of this book.  Plainly stated the man is not a good author.  <br />I was looking for three things from the book.   A description on how the UN inspectors went about there business in Iraqi, a detailed account of the meetings Blix was in with all the world leaders that he had contact with in the run up to the war, and a scathing rebuttal for all the grief the guy took in the press and by the Bush Administration about the inspection process.   I can only describe my attitude of the book as a shock; none of the three areas I wanted to read about were covered in much depth at all.  I almost started to wonder if it really was Blix that wrote the book.   All descriptions of the inspection process were vague and superficial.  It became clear to me that he really did not manage the process very closely or he chose to completely remove it from his memory.  <br />On the point about his meetings with government officials I can only say this author is the exact opposite of Woodward.  He could barely be bothered to mention the meetings let alone any detail.  This is the stuff historians will be reading for in the years to come and this book offers up less then a newspaper account.  I wanted a full he said / she said and all I got was some mumbled three word comment here and there.  And on the third point, I thought that during the run up to the war Hanz was being very diplomatic by notanswering all the down right nasty charges being tossed around about him.  It turns out he is either the most forgiving man this side of the Pope or he is in desperate need of a spine.  The only person he marginally disagreed with was David Kay who was basically just filling the roll of a TV pundit at the time.  I assume that the reason Kay got some much mention is that Hanz has some long running feud with the man or Kay beat Bliz up in grade school.    <br />So did I like anything about the book?  It pains me to say this, but there were some interesting insights to the man and the process.  Taken in context and as part of gathering a full picture in the run up to the war, this book is probably required reading for no other reason then of who the author is.  My only consolation is knowing that historians across the world will have to muster the strength to drudge through this tome just as I did.  The only bright point is that, because the author had so little to say, the publisher had to make the type large and the margins small to get a page count that could muster the full hardback book price.  Given this publishing slight of hand, the pages only have about ten words each so you get the illusion of making progress through the book.  The reason I am giving the book an average rating is only for the historical significance of the book even though the meat you will get out of it would fill a magazine article.	2004-04-04
724214:US	41012519	R3VV2D9DJD8W47	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	4	164	232	N	N	Bring Em On	For some reason over the years I have never seamed to read the controversial books while they were the hot topic.  So it was exciting for me to dig into this one while everyone was talking about it and the author.  Not a day has gone by over the past couple of weeks where he has not been in the news.  I jumped into the book thinking, based on the public reaction, that it was one comment after another about how Bush 2 stumbled and bumbled his way through the past three years and that we are all lucky we have not had terrorist attacks in the States weekly.  What I found with the book was a far more level headed and historical telling of the past 20 years in regard to thee terrorist threats to the US.   <br />The author touched on four presidents from Reagan to Bush 2 and I think he was fair to three of them.  He had lower level positions with Reagan and Bush 1 plus the environment was different so he did not have much interesting to tell us.  He gave both of them negative marks on how they handled terrorism, but to be fair he is a rather stringent reviewer of performance.  The real meat of the book is with the Clinton and Bush 2 administrations.  Here is where I thought the author might have stumbled a bit.  I do not think he was critical enough of Clinton.  The author obviously enjoyed working for Clinton and probably felt some loyalty to him, which, in my opinion made him lessen his critical view of his bosses.  He did have a rather large bone to pick with the FBI Director, but this is a criticism not only expressed by this author.  Given the political climate this book was entering, I would have assumed he would have tried to be a little more hard nosed with Clinton given it would only make the criticism that the book is a partisan hack job a little les believable.   <br />As for his treatment of Bush 2, I did not find it over the top.  He was more critical of Bush 2 then of the other three Presidents, but given the circumstances, I feel it was warranted.  After all, we are in a war on terrorism so we need a leader that is up to the challenge.  An average effort as an internal focused President will not be successful.  If anything, I felt the author was more critical of the Bush support team.  You have probably heard most of the comments by now in media sound bites and to be completely truthful they do make for fun reading.   Overall I found the book very interesting and worthwhile.  I am not going to give the book the top rating because the author did seam to be slightly inconsistent with his treatment of the Presidents and he filled the end of the book up with some personal political opinions that added no value.	2004-03-31
730250:US	41012519	R1S3OEP90I586U	0316561479	502376592	6 Nightmares: The Real Threats to American Security...	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The 7th Nightmare Being this Book	Ok so the title I used for this review was a bit harsh in relation to this book.  This review could be titled the tail of two books.  The book that was advertised in the title and dust jacket is a review by a Clinton Administration National Security Advisor of what he thinks are six negative situations that could face the United States and the responses we should take.  Similar to the old Nixon book Six Crises.  Unfortunately for Mr. Lake, unlike his name he takes a rather shallow approach to his writing.  The situations he chooses are interesting and with merit, it is just that all he gives the reader is a rather light, fat free, skim the top version.  It really read almost like a magazine article and if you pulled this section out of the book it would probably be no more the 80 pages.  This was disappointing, because the book dust jacket lead me to believe the reader was going to get a detailed book full of insight from an inside guy.<br />The second book was a split between what the Clinton Administration did in relation to similar issues to the six highlighted by the author and a sudo memoir that is a good outline, but not much else.  Again, the author just did not develop either of these two directions.  I kept finish sections and chapters saying to myself . . . and then what.  The Clinton Administration had some interesting foreign affairs issues, Ireland, the Middle East, Bosnia, Haiti, Terrorism, China etc, how this author and inside player managed to miss half of the detail is beyond me.  And while I am on a role, there was the authors overriding and unending positive verse.  This guy needs to write self-help books, because even though I was disappointed in the substance, the writing had an almost pick me up vibe to it.  The author is a very positive guy.<br />I do not want to be all negative about this book.  He did touch on some threats to the US.  He gave a brief overview of what would need to take place if any of the crises came to pass, and the items I found most interesting were his comments on terrorism.  With all that is going on today with the 9-11 commission and the election, it was interesting to her his thoughts on the terrorism threat.  Although I did not come across any smoking guns, I get the feeling that if this book had come out after 9-11, the section on terrorism and the efforts of the Clinton Administration would have been beefed up some.  Overall the book is a light, easy to read overview of some Clinton Administration foreign affairs issues.  If you are looking for a quick read on a weekend it will serve the purpose.ms I found most interesting were his comments on terrorism.  With all that is going on today with the 9-11 commission and the election, it was interesting to her his thoughts on the terrorism threat.  Although I did not come across any smoking guns, I get the feeling that if this book had come out after 9-11, the section on terrorism and the efforts of the Clinton Administration would have been beefed up some.  Overall the book is a light, easy to read overview of some Clinton Administration foreign affairs issues.   If you are looking for a quick read on a weekend it will serve the purpose.	2004-03-27
733389:US	41012519	R235HX10C8QAGW	0786712511	384757615	The Secret Service: The Hidden History of an Enigmatic Agency	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Not So Hidden	I think the most important a perspective reader needs to know is that this book is about 95% Presidential protection and only 5% law enforcement regarding counterfeiting.  For me that was great, because that is about the breakdown I wanted.  With that out of the way there were a few issues I had with the book.   First off there are parts that are dry and repetitive.  If that does not bother you then the in depth view of the Kennedy assassination might push you over the top.  I admit I was interested in this area as much as the next guy, but the author did get really into the weeds on protective issues that broke down that day.  It just stopped adding value after some time and got close to a sermon.  The author also had something against the Hersh book on Kennedy and kept bring it up.  <br />The only other thing that disappointed me with the book is that they really did not cover much about the procedures and processes they use.   Ok I know they can not give away all the secrets, but why could the author have not given me more detail about Presidential motorcades, hey those are public.  What I did like is that the author was not shy about details about the Presidents and their families.  I really liked the personal gossip bits tossed in here and there.  The sections that covered which Presidents and First Ladies did not like protection and what they did to avoid it was interesting.  The updated information after 9-11 was also a nice bit of info.<br />Lastly, I thought the author did a good job presenting a book that covered politicians that did not slip into one political side or another.   The author was very even handed and I have no idea his political leanings are.  He was also surprisingly hard, at times, on the Secret Service.  As the book goes on it is apparent that the author has a very positive view of the Service, which makes his criticism seem all the more accurate.   Overall, the book was interesting and well put together.  I do agree with other reviews here that there were some typos and parts that drug a bit.  It does deliver a nice overview of the Secret Service.	2004-03-24
739044:US	41012519	R29G9ZASWZ2NTM	0684837781	15221511	Dead Center: Clinton-Gore Leadership and the Perils of Moderation	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Meet Me In The Middle	This book will be a tad bit aggravating for those of you out there that are fans of President Clinton and do not like criticism placed at his feet.  If you do not mind an upfront and realistic review of his presidency then this book is a good start.  First off a bit of a warning, this book the purports to try and gage the Clinton Presidency and how it will be judged historically yet it was written while he was still in office.  A minor point given when the book was published, but still worth noting.  I also want to touch on the fact that this book lists four authors, I usually shy away from books with multiple authors, because I am always bothered by different writing styles commingled.  I find I am always on the look out to see if I can find when one author stops and the next begins.  This book had none of this; the authors did a very good job of speaking with one voice.   <br />Ok so now we get to the real meat of the review, did the authors do a good job of presenting the Clinton Presidency?   I think they did, this book is one of the few I have read that did not spend more then a few pages on the personal scandals and the right wing witch-hunt that took place.  The authors spend a good deal of time on the domestic policies issues that Clinton worked on.   I think they also did a good job in bringing out the working relationship Bill had with Hilary in regard to the heath care program and subsequent defeat.   I would have liked it if the authors had spent more time on the foreign affairs section of the book.  I felt they skimmed the Middle East section and could have spent more time talking about Europe.  Also completely missed was the issue of terrorism and what the administration did or did not do.<br />Overall the book was good.  It was a well thought out and written book that is a good overview of the first 7 years of the Clinton Administration.  It can be a bit dry and it is not a book that can be read with an eye on something else.  The authors main point,inserted maybe a bit too freely, was that by always moving to the center and governing by public polls produces an average result and truly great Presidents follow an agenda based on philosophy regardless of public opinion.  As for how the authors summed up the Clinton presidency I will leave you with a quote from the book.  \\"If Clinton truly aspired to presidential greatness, the strategy he had chosen ensured that he would never achieve it.\\"	2004-03-20
740964:US	41012519	RU0F3RSZ6258Q	1560256095	433875769	The War We Could Not Stop: The Real Story of the Battle for Iraq	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Dont Judge a Book By its Cover	This book was written by the journalists of a British daily newspaper and to be honist the title is probably geared to the rather anti war population in the UK. I read the book when it first came about in the UK about 9 months ago and at the time it was one of the first books that provided detailed coverage of the war through the eyes of different reporters in the field.   Basically the book is a bunch of expanded articles that were written for the paper by the reporters in the field.   The book focuses on both the lead up to he war and the actual war.  As the reporters were UK based I think they provided a UK bias in their reporting, which is an interesting slant given the view is probably closer to the overall view in the EU then of American reporters.  <br />The reporting of the political situation is geared to UK politicians and for me I found this of average interest.   What I think the book did the best at was the embedded reporters stories of field combat.  What was surprising to me based on the title of the book and the organization that put it out, the field reporting seemed to cover just what was taking place without a lot of anti war bias.  It also provides some interesting views of what the British troops were doing.   Overall it is an interesting book, but not the full story nor the only book to read on the war.	2004-03-18
747546:US	41012519	RL1WHAWBZ9NJC	0060930543	15698600	Presidential Ambition: Gaining Power At Any Cost	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The Authors Bait and Switch	I am conflicted on this book review.  My first response would be that I was disappointed with the book.  The title and dust jacket lead me to believe that the author was going to cover story after story of mean, nasty, back stabbing methods past Presidents had employed to get their way.  Real tricky Dick Nixon type of stuff that makes people who are skeptical of politicians stand up and cry out \\"look at those scum!\\".  What I got was a chapter length review of some of the past Presidents from Washington to Ike.  Sure it was easy to read, but it did not have enough detail to really get into the topic.  The author presented his book in a very nice and calm manner.  My opinion is that with a book covering this subject, the author needs to be frank, direct and maybe have a little chip on his shoulder to get the right level of distain in his writing. <BR>  <BR>This author had not one disagreeable thing to say in the whole book.  I got to the mid point and started to think that this author would be hard pressed to speak of criminals in a harsh tone.  On the other hand the author did have a very easy to read and almost conversational way of writing.  The pages flowed along and before I knew it I had completed the book.  Did I learn a lot from the book, well some, but again not what I wanted.  I wanted to sit and gawk at a train wreck and this author presented a view to a tea party.  He was just so darn nice that I feel some obligation to give him a high mark on the rating.	2004-03-13
749589:US	41012519	R2EBGZ6297AXJ2	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	4	76	93	N	N	Words, Mistakes and Deceptions	Ok lets face it, if you are reading this review you are either a person that likes President Bush a great deal and are simply reading this review to provide me with a negative vote hoping it will get me and my kind to stop buying books like this.  Or you dislike president Bush so much that you have actually removed the shrubs in your front yard and have made it a family rule that you will never visit Texas again.  For those of you in the latter group this book is for you, well maybe not.  The anti-Bush book biz is in high gear and has already produced some very funny and insightful books, but unfortunately, this is not one of them.  <br />The book is dry, Death Valley in August dry.  There are no zippy partisan one liners or laugh out loud parody chapters.  Nope, this is a \\"just the facts' kind of book.  The author has taken what appears to be every public statement Jr. has made and listed out the ones that held untruths (commonly referred to as lies by the author) and detailed out the true state of affairs.  The writing is at times bland with it falling into wooden far too often.   But enough of the negatives, the book does offer a wonderful listing of lies that the President and his administration have used to pass the tax cuts all the way up to the Iraqi War.   What the book lacks in readability it more then makes up for in detail and volume.  <br />My only complaint about the details covered is that I think the author was a little harsh on Bush when he dealt with the war in Afghanistan and 9 - 11.  Again, I am no fan of President Bush, but even I thought some of the examples were nitpicking.  He is a politician and they do need to make some general and overly positive statements at times.  The sections of the book on the tax cuts and what they are really doing to the deficit and the effect on the middle class is worth the price of the book alone.  Throw in the detail on the sale of the Iraqi war and you have yourself a bargain of a book.  If you buy the book inorder to get details and learn something, then you will not be disappointed.	2004-03-11
757135:US	41012519	RA6T862T2OQSK	0375509283	461355741	The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Partly Cloudy	To put this review in context I did not support the war in Iraq nor am I very fond of the current administration.  Leading up to the war last year, it seamed that whenever I got into a discussion with a supporter to the war, this book was brought up as the end all - be all in reasons for the invasion.  At the time I had not read the book because I was busy finding and reading books that supported the anti war view I held.  Now that the war has taken place I thought it would be interesting to read the book.  I was expected a neo-conservative extreme right wing rant about how Saddam was all things evil and the world was a hair breath away from being decimated by this despot of the desert.  I actually thought it would be fun to sit down with the book and pick it apart page by page because, I assumed, it would be full of now proven lies, mistruths or just plain mistakes.  What I found is that this was not the case.<br />First off the book is actually written in a very well thought out and non-excited manner, there was no over the top crises wording to get the true believers fired up.  The author takes the reader through a brief history of Iraq with a good amount of detail on the Gulf War and the 1990's.  He spends a good amount of time detailing out what he views as the threats posed by Iraq and how the US can resolve them.   He takes a good look at the pre war environment within Iraq and the sanction process.  I have read a number of books on these topics and I found that, for the most part, this author stayed close to the facts.  Sure, he had an end goal in mind, that the best course of action was a war with Iraq to get rid of Saddam and his conclusions worked the reader to that end, but his reasoning played on the real situation, not over the top fear mongering.  He also did a very good job in guessing / assuming what the battle plan would be and the reaction of most of the Arab states.<br />He even detailed out some items that the Bush Administration did not take into account, that it was more important to find and kill off the Al Qaeda network before an Iraq war, that the Iraqi military was in very poor shape and would have a difficult time in using chemical or biological weapons, if they had them, and that one of the most important parts of the process would be to have a solid plan for after the war.  The only thing I found to be a problem was the premise of the book and argument he presents is based on Iraqi having or being able to produce WMD.  They did not have them and we are learning that the Iraqi government were really not able to produce much of anything let alone sophisticated weapon systems.  This massive error has lead the author to publicly apologize and made his book thought of as a joke.  I would agree with the characterization that the WMD fears were misplaced, but I do think the book has some value, if nothing more then to help the pro war folks have a literary shoulder to cry on.	2004-03-06
766897:US	41012519	R1VNCB9RFLNL18	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Right Back At Them	For some reason I thought this book was going to be a rather detailed account of the media and the conservative myths that abound about the Democrats similar to the book \\"What Liberal Media\\".  It turns out I was wrong.  The book does touch on the media part, but it also goes into the full range of the misstatements and politically driven lies that the rather vocal conservative movement propagates.  The author dedicates each chapter to a different falsehood and tries to both prove the Democrats do not live up to the lie and to also show that many times the Republicans engage in the same actions as they claim they despise the Democrats for.  This description I have laid out so far is about half of each of the chapters, the other half are outright attacks on President Bush.  Watch out if you are a bit squeamish when it comes to bar fights, because this author is laying out his view of the world with no holes barred.  It is a full frontal attach with no problem about going below the belt.<br />To be honist with you I had no problem with the layout of the book and the rather dogged attacks on President Jr.  I rather enjoyed them; it is just that this author is not as good at these types of books as say some of the others in the field.  This author just does not have the snappy one liners that make you forget you are reading a partisan, one sided, dislike inspired rant parading as a book.  It is just that this author seams to have the talents and the intellectual skills to dig deeper and provide us more then the easy shots.  I guess for me the book did not have the zip to be a truly great partisan shot across the bow and did not have the depth to be a thinker's book.  Overall I liked the book and if you are of the liberal slant then I bet you will enjoy the book.  It just needed a little more to get a top rating.	2004-02-28
771536:US	41012519	R1Z2E80SDGS47S	0440508649	11758110	Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot: And Other Observations	Books	5	16	26	N	N	Let the Laughs Begin	This is one of those laugh out loud books, if you tend to lean a little to the left then grab on to this book and speed read.  It is something that a book can be so funny yet get you also a bit mad, angry at the nasty little things that the Republican party resorted to during the 90's.  If you love barbs at Newt and Rush then sign on for hours of fun with this book.  The one thing that I have found in reading this authors books is that, to me, the author always seams much funnier in a book then his personal appearances.  I have also seen this author try and debate on TV and he needs to leave his point making to the written form, he always comes off better.<br />This book will not change minds or move debates in American; it is just good fun if you happen to think like the author.  If you are one of the folks who are writing negative reviews, we all know you are not reading the book but just responding to the title or the reputation of the author.   If you are a Democrat then you will enjoy the book and I would suggest you read it before the popular culture comments get too out of date to really be funny.  Buy the book and laugh.	2004-02-25
774134:US	41012519	R8QK0VHKN8T26	0738834580	901204246	Call The Briefing	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Payback Time	I have read my fair share of political memoirs and to me they always seem to all into one of two categories.  It is either the disgruntled guy that maybe did not leave on such good terms who is going to put as much venom as possible into anyone that slightly crossed him during his time in the administration, or it is the guy that thinks the President he served walked on water and is wondering why the American population did not create a monarchy with his President as the King.   This book falls into the later category.  I am not apposed to these types of books, I tend to like them if I liked the President so I was ok with the authors glowing review of Reagan and Bush.  I just wished the author had given us little more meat with his comments.  Most of the book reminded me of a rambling conversation you might have with a friend where, at the end, you really do not know what was talked about. One thing did come out very clearly, the author loved working for these two Presidents and there is absolutely no criticism, fair or unfair, within these pages. <br />The one thing that I did get a little annoyed at was the author's attacks on the Clinton administration.  I could understand the comments about the 1992 election and those comments were fair, but what was with the comments of what the Clinton team was doing in 95?  These looked to me as nothing else but simple-minded attacks to help a bruised ego.  As the book went on into the Bush administration this author started to really tear into the press.  On and on he would spout off about the liberal press that was just out to get good old George when maybe the author should have realized that it was the Bush team that was losing focus and was losing the election one day at a time.  The author hardly ever admitted that the Bush administration made mistakes; the No New Taxes issue was not even discussed.  And as other reviewers here have mentioned, the author did not touch on the two military actions undertaken during the Bush administration.   Overall the book was light on new facts, but had some interesting parts about the press and some internal meetings and issues.  I could not get past the petty attacks on the Clinton administration and the obsessive mantra about the negative, unfair liberal press.	2004-02-23
779214:US	41012519	RYG4JID6VKI1I	0684857340	790673878	...and the Horse He Rode In On: The People V. Kenneth Starr	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Starr Wars	If you are looking at this book then you probably know exactly what this book is about and the tone the author takes.   You are probably a Clinton supporter and are looking for a book that gives you some nice facts to reinforce your dislike of old Mr. Starr.  Well that is exactly what this book offers, 160 pages of anti Starr.  It warmed my heart that there is an author out there that can give as good as he gets and fights back for all the negative anti Clinton smears we have lived with over the years.   Is the book full of facts, well they are facts that I want to hear.  Are they the whole story?  Well probably not, these types of books do not tend to present the full picture, just the picture I want to see, but you probably already know that.<br />This book delivered what I wanted, anti Starr info.   It reinforced my opinion that the whole Star thing was just one long political dirty tricks campaign that old Tricky Dick would have been proud of.  I would have liked the author to have also focused some on the Republicans that were full steam ahead on the whole Starr thing and all the bogus themes they came up with to investigate.   What is sad is that so much money and time was spent on nothing, but uneducated hatred with the funny part being that most Americans now view the investigation as just a dirty political motivated hate campaign.  Overall the book is fun and has a fight back attitude about it.   It will only take a few hours to read so you do not feel so bad given the book is more fast food then steak dinner.	2004-02-19
785464:US	41012519	R1UAS72G2XA3WH	0451207777	139072299	Dark Waters:: An Insider's Account of the NR-1 The Cold War's Undercover Nuclear Sub	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Muddy Waters	I love books about submarines and how they are used so of course I was excited to read this book.   The dust jacket lead me to believe that the book was going to detail out mission after mission that was top secret, good old cold war espionage fun.  I should have known better, these types of missions are filed away as top secret and it will be years before they see the light of day.   Any book that claims to have the details are usually a little more puffed up in the description then the actual details.  So I dug into this book and for the most part really enjoyed it.   It starts with a review of how the sub was created and the crew trained.  Somewhat interesting, but to be fair I was looking for the under water fun and games.<br />The book did move into the subs exploits, but due to the top-secret nature the stories that were told were not all that new or exciting.  And that would not have been all that bad if the authors would have kept telling me about the non secret items like finding other wrecks at the bottom of the sea and weird fish they came upon.  Instead they spent just a little too much time of live outside of the sub.   Ok I know these guys have wife's and families, but to be fair I do not care.  I want exciting submarine stories, not issues about home life.   Overall the book was mostly interesting and well written.   I could have done with more detail, but there is nothing I can do about that.	2004-02-14
788638:US	41012519	R2QIH0XQ4WRJR0	0761526463	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	3	22	39	N	N	I Just Do Not Know	To be very upfront about this review, I do not know much about President Lincoln other then what I was taught in High School and College history courses.   A friend of mine was reading this book and told me it was interesting.  I thought it would be interesting, maybe give me a new insight or some unique facts.  I started with the forward (like you do) and found that I had somehow picked up a hate filled rant about all things evil being placed at the feet of honist Abe.   If I would have stopped with the forward, written by someone so disgruntled about life that even spring days probably get him in a bad mood, I would have thought the book to not be good enough for the trash.  I read on and found to my betterment that the author of the book was a bit less nasty then the author of the forward.<br />Given the start of the book, I was predisposed to wonder what the agenda of the book was.  I kept reading, but found myself doubting many of the assumptions and conclusions.   Not from any facts I had, but because of the impression the forward gave me that this book was an ultra negative book no matter what the facts were.  I finished the book and even with the rather unsettling acts the author reported, I am still thinking the book was written with an agenda in the forefront and the author molded the history to fit the title.  The book was interesting and well written, there were a few slow parts, but for the most part it was an enjoyable read.   I just felt like my current held belief that Lincoln was one the best Presidents we had was not changed with the book because of the tone the author took.  Did we get the facts or partial comments and statements taken out of context and fit together to present a story that was different from the original telling.  I will leave it to more learned history buffs to tell you.	2004-02-12
794059:US	41012519	R23PXCJXR8XLK4	0684813092	289144916	On the Edge: The Clinton Presidency	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Reporting	Each time I read a book by this author I am reminded why she is considered such a good journalist and excellent author.  If ever a political book could be considered in the \\"could not put down\\" category, this book could.  The author gives the reader a detailed description of the first year and a half of the Clinton presidency with an unbiased look at both the good and the bad.   I tend to fall on the side of a Clinton supporter so I agreed with all the positives and cringed at the negatives she brought up, but could not find fault with her reporting.  The problems and reasons why were well thought out, accurate and unbiased.<br />So much of what takes place in Washington covers up the real story and the actual work that does or should get done.   This author does a good job a stripping away the noise and getting to what the real problems were of the first year of the Clinton administration.   She detailed the lack of organization, the agenda that was too large and the effect of too many staff with lacking experience to play that this level.  Overall the book was very interesting and well written.  If you are looking for details on how the Clinton White House worked at the first then this should be your first stop.	2004-02-08
809756:US	41012519	R18LAYOBFA4VC	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	9	13	N	N	All Over The Map	I was excited to read this book because I had read the authors first book and found it very enjoyable.   I finished the book, but my experience this time was not as positive.  I thought the book was going to be about US pilots that were shot down during one battle in the Pacific war, at least that is what the dust jacket lead me to believe the book was going to be about.  What I found was that the author really gave the reader a spotty history of Japan war crimes, US POW's in Japan and a jumpy history of the US air war.  I also found the bits on George W H Bush to be so light that it was obvious the author included it as a way to increase word of mouth for the book.  One last critical comment, the author left no question as to his politics about warfare and at times it got in the way of the story.   I am reading the book to discover something about history, not to learn the authors' political leanings.<br />With all these negative comments out of the way I must admit that I enjoyed a large amount of the book.  Despite the shortcomings I found, I just could not put the book down.   The start of the book was a bit slow with its history of Japan, but once the book got into World War 2 it got interesting.   The details on both the way Japan treated American POW's and the way the bombing campaign took place were both very eye-opening.  The cruelty of war never ceases to amaze me, how people can treat other humans this way is really sad.  The book gives the reader an idea of the life, however short it was, of an American POW and the down right sick way they were treated.  Overall the book was mixed for me, the writing was good, it brought out interesting facts, but it was too jumpy and opinionated for a high mark.	2004-01-27
813991:US	41012519	R23EB9930DXTI2	B00008RUMV	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	2	12	26	N	N	Not His Best Moment	I read the two other books that the author put out during his campaign adventures and although they were conservative, you could tell Pat was trying to court voters that may have been on the fence.  Well make no mistake about it, Pat is not running again.  He has laid out about every ultra conservative thought in his head about race, religion and just the proper way to live in this book and couched it in a non-fiction work on the population shifts taking place in the world.  I am not a conservative, the reason I have read this authors books in thee past is that he is a good writer and has some ideas that taken with a bit of moderation are not half bad.  It was just with this book it seamed to me that he tossed out any comments that would not automatically polarize the reader and went off the deep end.  If there was a way to introduce a thought that was sure to offend someone he did it.  This may be the true Pat that has been hiding under the surface all these years.<br />It is not like I was reading this book thinking I would be converted to his way of thinking, again I feel he is a good writer and always has interesting comments to make.  This is why I am so surprised about the underlying nastiness that this book has at its core.  The book is about the white race sinking in population and other races increasing, an interesting topic if not a bit racially charged.  But Pat just goes off the deep end, he attacks peoples religion and culture through the book.   We also attacks topics that really have little to do with the overall theme of the book, homosexuals, gun control, the entertainment industry, and every conservative's favorite whipping boy - Bill Clinton.<br />I did finish the book; I think just to see whom he would take on next.  My politics aside, I think Pat slipped a bit with this book.  As I said I have read the two books he put out before this one and they seemed to be more well thought out and put together.  Many times this book seemed to move past subject items with barley anything written except basically a one sentence thought.  This is what disappointed me the most, I figured if Pat was going to take on this type of charged topic he would spend extra time developing his thoughts, but I felt they were quickly thrown together.   If you are a very right wing kind of guy this book will hit a home run for you based on just the topics the author brings up and his ultra right wing view of them.  If you are anything else you may come away thinking the author has taken 35 years of anger and dropped into one book.	2004-01-23
823354:US	41012519	R292O80MPGS9VX	1891620894	89407808	Wilson's Ghost: Reducing the Risk of Conflict, Killing, and Catastrophe in the 21st Century	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Spooky in a Nice Sort of Way	I do not know who wrote the prolog to this book, but it has got to be the most painful 20 minutes of my life.  It was really bad, getting through it was like dragging a full size refrigerator loaded with lead blocks through a swap while wearing a chicken suit and snowshoes.  The good new is that the rest of the book was nothing like the prolog.  The book gave an interesting and I felt bit simplistic and idealist view of how American and the rest of the world (UN) should conduct foreign policy.  The liberal in me was happy with the suggestions, but the realest in me just can not get around thinking that no matter how noble the ideas there would be someone out there that would take advantage of us.  <br />McNamara fills the book with interesting stories about his time as Defense Secretary and I found these items the most enjoyable of the book.  He covered a good deal of information on his view of the Cuban Missile crises and why we got into Vietnam in the first place.  If there is value in the book then this is where it was.  Overall the book was well written, except the prolog, and easy to read.  The authors expressed their views well and with conviction.  It was just that I kept thinking that this is never going to work in the real world.   I would agree with another reviewer here that if you are looking to just get the highlights of the book chapter five is the place to start and finish.	2004-01-17
831240:US	41012519	R1MIYHBGIKMIOG	0060929839	106345183	Out of the Ashes: The Resurrection of Saddam Hussein	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Hidden Gem	In the lead up to the latest Iraq war, there was no end to books and press on the weapons of mass destruction, terrorist links, and just how nasty Saddam was.  In my opinion, the one area that was ignored or just not fully covered was the period of time between the two wars.   This book fills a major part of that time gap.  The authors give a concise and readable history of Saddam up to 1991, which is no small feat given the rather obscure political situation and tribal consideration of Middle East Politics or more accurately coup engineering.  The book really focuses on three main areas, the effect of the UN economic sanctions on the general population of Iraqi, the way Saddam kept power and dealt with the Kurdish area, and the internal Saddam family relations.<br />The section on the sanctions is very eye opening.  What is disappointing about the U.S. media is that for ten years conditions deteriorated daily in Iraq, yet the general U.S. public really did not have an idea of the conditions in Iraq.  A policy that was put in place to punish and hopefully remove Saddam was in fact responsible for the misery and death of many  of the population of Iraq.  One can only assume that uninspired or lazy world leadership left a policy that did not work in place for so long.   The one area that I would have been interested in would have been more coverage from the authors on the effect of the sanctions on the Iraqi military, but this interest is primarily driven by the events of the last year so it is not fair to ding the book for this.   I also felt that at times the book dragged or became a bit dry, this is the reason I am not giving it a five star rating.  Overall I enjoyed the book and found it covered new ground for me given the reading I have done over the last year on Iraq.	2004-01-11
832031:US	41012519	R227VDAJJPLPR9	0312302711	327793217	The Girls in the Van: A Reporter's Diary of the Campaign Trail	Books	1	1	3	N	N	I Wish She Wouldve Missed It	What was I thinking reading this book?  I basically just wanted a humorous and light recount of the race.  Do I really care about New York politics, not really, what I am interested in is the detail of Hilary Clinton and her race.  What was it like for a First Lady to run for the Senate?  What I got was a book that was 1/3 complaining about long work hours, 1/3 complaining about the basics of a campaign and 1/3 complaining about Hilary.  This author has every right to write a book as negative as she has about the candidate, but to be fair, I just did not get the level of dislike for Mrs. Clinton from the dust jacket as I did while reading the book.  If the dust jacket would have been honist, I never would have bought the book.<br />To be honist with you I only completed 2/3 of the book, it got to be so repetitious with the whining and complaining that I had to put it down.  I do not know if the author thought it was humorous or if this was just a 300 page diatribe about how this author disliked Hilary.  If the purpose of the book was to talk about the author's dislike of Hilary then why did she cover just the minor issues she did?  Lets be fair, whether they are fair or not, there are a number of bigger issues one could dredge up ...  It just came off as petty.   Overall I would not suggest spending the time on this book.	2004-01-11
843329:US	41012519	R1L19031ZTKFNV	1585422762	756890865	Weapons of Mass Deception: The Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The Truth Under Cover	Do not judge a book by it's cover, that should have been the second part of the title of this book.   What were the authors thinking putting this cover and this book?  When I picked the book up I thought it was gong to be a rather humorous, sassy slap at the Bush Administration and their war on Iraq.   I was all prepared for laugh after laugh with a few good facts tossed in for good measure.   In stead I got a very well written book that detailed the PR \\"propaganda\\" effort the Bush Administration used to sell the war on Iraq and get the average TV watcher to hop on the patriotism band wagon for the full ride.  The book was great at detailing out how the misstatements (a kind way to say lies) were put out into the press and used to beat the war drums.<br />I do not know if the real beauty of this book is a record of how the Bush Administration did everything it could to make the average American forget common sense and believe the WMD and terrorism excesses for the war or to spell out how the Bush administration will sell the next war.  This book almost reads like a case study on how to get it done.   The thing that got me was I remember having arguments with my pro war friends about some of these same lies told by team Bush and how they were believed by my friends.  Overall this is a very informative and well-written book.  I wish they would have used a more fitting cover.	2004-01-03
845446:US	41012519	RP25QP1TEW0TU	0312306210	960129161	Inside 9-11: What Really Happened	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Inside Scoop	I have always been a bit hesitant when picking up a book that has more then one author, let alone a full reporting staff.   Many times I find that you can either tell very distinctly when one author finishing and a another author starts or when there are a lot of authors, it tends to be a mix of styles that never really flow together.  Somehow this book had none of this, it must have been a very strong editor or a translation thing, but the book spoke with one voice and was very evenly put together.  The book had different sections, pre attack, attack and post attack and all three were insightful and well written.  This is the first book on the topic that I have read that went into a good amount of detail about the individual hijackers, it really tried to paint a picture of who they were and what theirs lives were like leading up to the event.  It did not really explain why they would do what they did, but it did give the reader some understanding of who they were.<br />During the section of the book that detailed the attack there were a number of interviews and a running description of the event, both were well done.   But the part that I found most powerful was that the authors placed bits of 911 calls from people in the towers into the text that really brought a lot of emotion into the reading.   Ok so it is a rather cheap way to do it, but it worked and you really felt the fear and desperation in the situation.  Overall I liked the book, it was well written and put together.   My only complaint would be that I felt the last section, the aftermath, was not as engrossing as the first two sections, but to be honest that is problem that it would be difficult for any author to top the drama of the attacks.  One other minor point, in non-fiction I like a few pictures to let me see whom you are talking about etc., this book had none.  If you are interested in the topic this is a good place to land.	2004-01-01
847889:US	41012519	R317GUKHGOI1RR	1401300049	405837845	Air Force One: A History of the Presidents and Their Planes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Easy Ride	If you are expecting a hard-hitting expose about anything presidential then this is not the book for you.  The author does a very good job of detailing out the Presidents from FDR that have taken flight via Air Force One or its predecessors.  The book is very interesting and does a good job at what it covers.   The book does not cover in any detail much about the plane except for overall basic facts.   The real focus of the book is the men who road in the planes, not the planes.   I find that the only issue I had with the book is that there was not enough detail of the actual plane, what the crew goes through to get it ready, the special planning for a trip and so on.  Don't get me wrong, I rather enjoyed the book as it was a light easy to read book that provided some very nice stories about the Presidents who traveled in the plane.	2003-12-30
848222:US	41012519	R388XH3ODHP3BH	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	14	24	N	N	The New Sheriff	I have a new hero, he is an old, short Jewish man with a bad back and I can not get enough of him.  This is one book that I spent half of my time laughing and the other half shooting \\"right on\\".  I have seen a few interviews of the author and to be honest I never felt he did all that well in conveying a message.  Given this perception I have never found the time to read one of his books.   Well I finally had a copy of this book thrust into my hands and it took the Jaws of Life to get me to put it down.  This book has more truth and good old reporting in it then a month's worth of FOX news.  It is just an all around good book.   Just when you think you have read about the nastiest outrage you could think off, the author and his team dig a little deeper to dredge up one more outrage of the Bush jr. reign of terror.  I just can not say enough good about this book.   If you like the author, are a bit of a moderate to liberal or just a free thinking adult you will eat this book up.	2003-12-30
866893:US	41012519	R2W4LSK7J5R3TZ	055380376X	682515279	The March Up: Taking Baghdad with the 1st Marine Division	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The First Good One	As the dust jacket states this book is really only the experience of the two authors as they traveled with the Marines during the campaign to Baghdad.   The book does not give the reader an overall view of the war or probably even a good overall view of what the Marines accomplished.  The authors do not give the reader the detail of say a Clancy or the overall talented writing of Ambrose, but they provide a gritty, hard nosed view of the combat that is exciting to read.  You may thing, given the first few lines of this review, that I did not enjoy the book.  The opposite is in fact true, I found the book every enjoyable and fast reading.   It is a in a nicely detailed and written work that given you a good idea of what the average Marine went through during Operation Iraqi Freedom.  <br />What an interesting, exciting and dangerous experience these two retired Marines share with the world.  I was concerned that the authors would use the book as either an overly positive Marine recruiting piece or as so kind of back handed justification for the war, but they stayed away from these two areas.  The book was just equal parts good old reporting and mature story telling that really gave the reader a wonderful insight to what the troops went through.  There will be untold number of books about the war, there always is, but I bet that more often then not the March Up will be credited in the footnotes.  This book will probably be one of few early attempts that stand the test of time.	2003-12-12
867386:US	41012519	R19XHG9XC6AXTP	0760315922	319456772	Conflict Iraq: Weapons and Tactics of the U. S. and Iraqi Forces	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A View to a Joke	If you are interested in warfare and the weapon systems then this authors name is probably familiar to you.  He puts out more books then even Steven King, the guy never stops but I guess we keep buying them.  Overall this is a flashy, colorful and easy to flip through book that describes at a high level the military capabilities of both the US and Iraqi with about five pages in the back about UK forces.  If you are looking for a primer to help you understand what the armchair TV Generals are talking about then this is a good choice.<br />The thing that I kept chuckling about is just how badly equipped, trained and lead the Iraqi forces were.  Here was a country that was getting the second best from the USSR with nothing new since 1990.  I was just surprised anything still ran.  Not to take anything away from the American military, but this book is a tail of the gang that cannot shoot straight with broken guns.  The only reason Saddam's government must have stayed in power is that either his neighbors were happy to let the US keep beating him up or they were in worse shape then he was.  The Taliban probably could match Iraqi, which is about how badly they were equipped.  Then again, all it takes is a few people willing to die for a cause and a RPG to cause damage.  Overall the book was somewhat interesting, but do not plan on it talking very long to read.	2003-12-12
872765:US	41012519	R2K1ZW4WJ0JZO6	1859843980	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	4	8	12	N	N	All Roads Lead to Henry	I find that few authors are as fun to read as this one when it comes to non-fiction.  Regardless if you agree or disagree with Hitchens, he always provides an interesting book that is sure to stir up your emotions.  He is also one of the few authors that can pack a sentence full of so much information you almost feel each is a full paragraph.  With all this said I was a little taken about by the authors overwhelming hatred for the subject of the book.  I mean most authors when writing something like this do have an agenda, but few put it so front and center.  I felt Hitchens lost some objectivity with his mantra of all things bad must have originated with old Henry.  <br />As far as the proof of this laundry list of nastiness, well a 135 page book does look a little thin at first glance.   After reading the book, even with Hitches very economic use of words, I was still left with a lot of questions.  This coupled with the overriding dislike of the subject by the author tended to make me think that maybe Henry was getting the raw end of the stick.  My political leanings point me in the general direction to believe anything and everything bad about the Nixon administration, but with the book as it was, I somehow started to think of excuses for Nixon and his henchmen, sorry I mean administration staff.  So maybe I was not read for this book, maybe I need to put it back on the shelf and let time age my sense of fair play.   I will let you decide the outcome of the book for yourself.  It was entertaining.	2003-12-08
886803:US	41012519	R233NBHYPA3WY5	1893956474	467158532	Frontier Justice: Weapons of Mass Destruction and the Bushwhacking of America	Books	3	18	22	N	N	More Detail Needed	I have read two other books by this author and a number of other articles and have enjoyed them.  I have always liked his sharply focused line of attack.  He does not deviate from his message.   I have also seen him on TV and for the most part he holds his own.   Therefore, I was excited to read this book.   What I figured I was going to get was a break down of what Bush jr. and company said to get the country to go to war and then the outcome at least in regard to Ritter's area of expertise, WMD's.   To my surprise and disappointment this area of the book only covered maybe 50% and it was really not that well documented.  I wanted a blow-by-blow account, really getting into the details of each misstatement and speech.  I wanted almost a well-detailed time line of events I could use in endless arguments with people who supported the war.  <br />The rest of the book was a number of rather lightly detailed attack lines aimed at Bush.  Don't get me wrong, I am all for giving Bush jr. a well deserved hard time, but I want some meat on the bones.  Pointless or unsubstantiated attacks do nothing but provide critics ammunition to discount the authors other well thought out comments.   Overall I would say the book was ok, the author sticks to his usual writing style, some would say no style, but overall the book is average.	2003-11-26
892239:US	41012519	RAEM300S8GB7	031227078X	230795002	My Quest for the Yeti: Confronting the Himalayas' Deepest Mystery	Books	3	4	7	N	N	I Want The Snowman	This is one of those books that I am almost embarrassed to admit I read.  What has it been, about 20 or 30 years since these types of myths were even thought of as a remote possibility?  When I picked the book up I almost thought that I should stop off next at the palm reader.   Well I did buy the book and the reason is that this type of myth still provides me and others with some kind of fun fictional hope that weird things like this are out there roaming around.   Maybe it brings out the kid in me, who knows, I bought the book because I thought it would be a fun escape.<br />Well the book was just ok.  No big creatures were found and the author basically dispels the myth.  The best part of the book was the author's descriptions of the areas he was in and the people he encountered.  He trekked around some of the most beautiful and rugged places in the world and he does a better then average describing them in the book.   I also found that the details of his encounters with the locals were interesting.  Overall the book was ok.  I expected more trashy excitement and the book was just one that dispelled the rumors.	2003-11-21
897986:US	41012519	RW3YGGX1EVAOM	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the Best	It is always such a treat for me when I get into such a well-written book.  I do not think I am along in that many times a book that is supposed to be god turns out to be average and because of this I always seam to get such a kick out of an excellent book.  I thought the real value of this book was in the detailed descriptions of the main players and their backgrounds.  It really helped to understand why certain decisions were made.  Given the current political campaigns, the section on Wesley Clark was very interesting.  When you read through it you almost think the author new something about the next step Clark would take.    The books covers the Haiti, Somalia, and Balkans military campaigns but the real detail is over the two Balkan conflicts.  <br />I felt that he really got to know the personalities involved because we did such a good job in ting back their personal histories to their current stands on issues and even why they choose the section of the government that they did.   The book did have some undertones of why the military men were more cautious because of the Vietnam War but I did not fully buy into that given the time distance and the Gulf war Victory.  Overall this was a wonderful book that is full of spot on personality review and good details on why certain policies were followed.   I would recommend it to anyone.	2003-11-17
912748:US	41012519	R18F5USQX5E1MI	0801879361	245903085	The Battle for Iraq: BBC News Correspondents on the War against Saddam	Books	4	3	4	N	N	First out of the Gate	For me, the one thing I can always count on from the BBC is quality.  I had the opportunity to watch BBC coverage of the war as well as many other American and European networks and by far I felt the coverage the BBC had was the most in depth and even handed.   So it was a quick decision for me to buy this book once I found it in the shop.   I was not disappointed, but I would add that I was not overwhelmed either.  Overall I thought the book was interesting and well written.  The authors go into a depth with many stories that just could not be done on TV.  They also go a very good job of covering the British politics.   I know that reading a historical account of an event as large as this little more then a few months after the end is a bit risky, but I wanted to learn more so I gave it a go.<br />I only complaint would be that that there was not enough battle front reports in the book.   I wanted more detail on the battles and the book just did not give me enough.   There is also a slight let down reading about a battle when the author practices a bit of British understatement.   I want drama and excitement with my battle details.  This is a small complaint, overall the book comes off as even handed and well written.   There will no doubt be a number of books to come out of this war for decades to come and I bet many of those books will reference this book because of the high quality of the BBC reporting.    If you want an early book this is a good one.	2003-11-05
938601:US	41012519	R3V43UFQ0LTDYY	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	4	22	32	N	N	Book on a Diet	My first Michael Moore book was Stupid White Men and I thought that book was a laugh a minute.  I then went out and read the rest of his books, which were almost as good as Stupid White Men.   Well this book comes out and you guessed it - I was one of the first in line to pick it up.   Let me say right up front that although I am a bit left leaning, I am not in the same category as the author.   If you have read some of his other books you know that at times it is hard to tell his true beliefs from this outrageous comments stated for effect or comedy.  With this said I was looking for more of the same from this book.  The impression I got is that the author rushed this one out the door.  It just seamed to be about 70% of his best game.  I almost want to mail it back to the author and ask that he spend a little more time on it.<br />Another issue I have is that about 20% of the pages (few as they are) cover a dream sequence taking place 50 years in the future.  Not to say that it was dull but I want today's social commentary, not extrapolated guesses of what the issues will be in 50 years.   The best part of the book covered the issues he has with GW and a number of questions he would like to cover regarding 9 / 11.  This is interesting and well worth the read.   He also covers and number of social and employment issues that face today's average Joe.  There are a number of interesting comments in this section and surprisingly he has backed off a little on the corporate boggy man he usually makes management out to be.  Overall the book is what you would expect from the author, just a little light.	2003-10-15
939704:US	41012519	R1O9LUNF4A74ZU	0671606263	97514711	Banana Diplomacy: The Making of American Policy in Nicaragua, 1981-1987	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Banana Split	I found out about this book in the author's notes of another book on the politics of the Reagan administration, which stated it was well worth the read.    It sounded interesting so I gave it a try.   What I was looking for and what this book delivered were, unfortunately for me, two separate items.  I wanted a nice political review of what the Reagan administration policies were, how they were created and an overview of how they effected the countries in the region.  The book was an in depth, step by step review of the implementation of the policies in the countries effected.  Somewhat interesting but it tended to drag me down into the detail.  If you are a scholar of Central American then I would assume this book is probably one of the must reads.  I just wanted a brief overview of the area and a in depth review of the politics within the administration and this was covered far too lightly for me.<br />What happened to me was that I got bored with the detail of the players in Central American and was disappointed in the amount of Washington insider info.  That is not to say that the book was bad, the author wrote in a easy to read and understand method.   He clearly detailed some rather complicated political situations and was through with the footnotes.   It is just a case of what the reader wanted and book not matching.	2003-10-15
940661:US	41012519	R1A04YSJZ1R3L4	0142002801	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Great Introduction	I have always been a big fan of World War 2 books, I used to read one or two every month.   I have also read this authors book Leningrad, which was just a wonderful book.  With this said I was very excited to dig into the authors latest offering.  I read the book and came away a bit disappointed.  The writing was very good, but it seamed to me that it lacked some of the detail that the Leningrad book went into.   Then again the author took a slightly different approach to the two books.   Here the author needed to tell a larger story with Russian advances into Northern Germany so he could not dig into the real gritty details that Leningrad had so many of.  He also chose not to make the book another recap of the last days in the bunker, probably figuring that that story had been told enough times.  <br />Overall the book was good and it gives the reader a good understanding of the overall last few breaths of the Nazis.  I just felt that some of the zip or raw emotion that the author had so wonderfully detailed out in Leningrad was missing from this book.   Also if you are looking for just the detail of the last days in the bunker there are a number of better books out there that detail it down to the hour.  The author does a good job and the book is very readable.   It acts as a great introduction to this particular section of the war and could easily push the reader to more in depth studies of the end in Berlin.   I just felt the author slipped a bit.	2003-10-14
958984:US	41012519	R2NMJE9TORUVG	B00008RUNJ	800097894	Crashing the Party: How to Tell the Truth and Still Run for President	Books	2	6	22	N	N	Derailing my Interest	I should start this review off with a disclaimer, although I would categorize myself as left leaning, I am not as far to the left as the Green party and have not really followed Mr. Nader's career.  I only picked this book up because I love reading almost anything on current politics and a friend recommended the book to me.  With all this said I can now come clean and tell you that overall I thought the book was dull, rambling and in desperate need of something interesting to be tossed in.  Page after page I kept hoping that it would improve, that the author would get past the complaints and details on how he got from one location to another and get into something interesting about the campaign.  About the only thing that changed in the text was that after about 50 pages he started to also complain about how he was ignored by the press, other candidates and the public until the election.  Maybe that should have been a clue for him.<br />I know that this review is probably not what the general reader of this book is going to want to read, because this person is a Green party member of a fan of the authors and will discount my comments (and probably be right in doing so).  If you are not a member of one of these groups and are just interested in the overall 2000 campaign then there are a number of much better books out there.  I guess what really pushed me over the edge was having to deal with the authors arrogant attitude, which he has a hard time concealing in the book.  I started to think that he possible believes that he is some long forgotten royal who is looking to reclaim the throne.	2003-09-29
964525:US	41012519	R3L5ICP9ZIB7CQ	0312169280	650875554	Hostile Waters	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Hostile Critic	I was excited when I found this book on Amazon and quickly purchased it.   Once I got it I drove right in.  Unfortunately this pre-reading excited set an expectation in my mind which was not fulfilled with the actual text.   I also have a rather strict interpretation of a non-fiction book; I want an accurate telling of the story, not a lot of extra adjectives at every turn.  The description of the book and some reviewers here have stated that the book read like a good novel, many state it is similar to The Hunt for Red October.   In my opinion the book is no where near the level of Red October and if I wanted fiction I would buy fiction.   At every chance this author tried to raise the level of excitement by over dramatizing each event.  Even the initial cast off was stated in batted breath tones.   And let's just say that for a fiction writer he really did not do a good job.  <br />Overall the actual incident was interesting and what I found the most value in.   I am glad that I did read the book just for a telling of the event.  Unfortunately the writing was wooden and the over dramatizing of the test left a bad taste in my mouth.	2003-09-24
995680:US	41012519	R21F83S65XGEKB	0465017274	823447330	Divided We Stand: A Biography Of New York's World Trade Center	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Subject Matter Also Divided	I would agree with many of the other reviewers here that the author did not give the reader the complete biography of the building.  He almost completely focused on a review of New York politics leading up to the build.  I wish he had spent time on the construction of the site.  One even could get the impression that the author was not happy about the WTC project as a whole.  A good amount of time in the book was spent talking about the businesses that had to be relocated or just kicked out due to the full project.  Based on this I would say that the book was tilted to a negative view of the creation of the WTC site.  <br />What saved the book for me were both the authors writing style and the interesting view into the politics of New York.  The author is truly gifted, his word choice really make you pay attention to the text.  He is also great at keeping the flow going through some (at times) rather dull information.  He review of the politics behind the creation of the WTC was well worth the time to read the book.   It was a who's who of real estate and banking leaders all trying to get in the action and suck up to the governor and mayor.  Overall the book was interesting, but not complete.	2003-08-28
1002700:US	41012519	R2HHRQWXACH5ID	1840371897	940801300	Flying The Big Jets: Flying the Boeing 777 (4th Edition)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Jet Lag Writing Style	I was excited to read this book given I have always been interested in what it is like to fly these massive hunks of metal.  I have also read a few books by this author about airline crashes, which always proved to be interesting.  So here is my problem, I was expecting an interesting and maybe at times even exciting book, what I got was a somewhat bland, even dull at times book that spelled out all the facts about flying a jet.  OK, I know that is exactly what the author stated the book would be about on the dust jacket, but he did not mention that the text would be bone dry.  <br />With that criticism out of the way, I did enjoy learning about flying a commercial jet.  I thought the run down of the mechanical operations of the aircraft and the actual job of flying the aircraft were the most interesting.   The rest of the book was informative and in enough detail to be considered a good overall review, it was just a bit dry, textbook dry.  To be honest I do not know exactly what I would have done to make the book more exciting, but hey, he is the author.  It is his job to make the book interesting.  And to be a nitpicker, how much actually changes with each new version of the book?  Overall the book was ok, it had some interesting parts but really is only for someone that is truly interested in how these aircraft work and what it is like to fly them.	2003-08-22
1006095:US	41012519	R32H8ACVLD7Q1O	0374103836	396161333	The Eagle's Shadow: Why America Fascinates And Infuriates The World	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The Author Seams to Have Aggravated a Few People	This topic is one that interests me, particularly that I am an American who lives out side of the states.  I have read a few other books along these same lines and this book has been the best written that I have found.  I would agree that the book does not lay out in a very easy to grasp method a number of exact quotes from people all over the world as to why they dislike American.  I assumed that the author, as he alluded to in the opening chapter, talked to a number of people during his travels and the chapters of the book is a combination of his thoughts and the thoughts of the people he interviewed.  Would the book have been better with more direct quotes from people around the world - maybe?  The many benefit of more quotes would have to lessen the argument a number of people have with the book in that it is just the authors point of view.<br />Overall I found the book very interesting and fair.  Even though I found it disagreeable to read many unflattering things about my country, they were all the true historical record.  After reading the book do I have a better understanding for the dislike of America?  To be honest I do not think a book can really detail out for the average American how the country looks to the rest of the world.  You really need to go outside and take a look back to see that many of the authors comments are not sour grapes or mindless complaining, but accurate comments on the current state of play.  Does it all matter?  It is good to be the King and as America is the top of the heap, then for the average American I do not think it matters at all.  When you are in America the rest of the world seams very small and far away.  <br />I enjoyed the book and there were a number of interesting comments.  I thought the author was fair and did not have an ax to grind.   If you are looking for a book covering this subject you could do a lot worse.	2003-08-19
1006213:US	41012519	REXBF47OOI30M	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Dont Stop Until You Get Enough	This book is a much needed comic relief especially for all those of you that are described in the book itself.   This author missed his true calling, comedy is what he does best.  I found the book to be a laugh a minute.   Each page brought on laugh out loud outbursts, so many that my wife finally told me to take it into the other room.  Sure, the book tried to deliver a social message that focused on some of the darker sides of this new wealthy class, but it was lost on me, as I really did not care.  The book was recommend to me as a smart and funny book and that is what it delivered.  Ok, so a few of the social criticisms did ring true and a few of his backhanded suggestions are good ideas.  <br />My only complaint with the book is that the author, in an attempt to either lend credence to his theories or just make himself look smart, included at the start of every chapter a run down of the most popular social commentary books written over the past 150 years as it related it the particular chapter.   I kept thinking, so what, get on with the comedy.   I also found the chapter that dealt with religion to be a bit dry and not as sharp as the rest of the book.   Almost as if the author had a guest writer do the chapter.  Overall the book is a laugh riot which is just plain fun to read.  If you are really looking for social commentary then it may be helpful.	2003-08-19
1006803:US	41012519	R1JPYQUQDM7PNJ	0684870266	708330639	A Necessary Evil: A History of American Distrust of Government	Books	5	11	21	N	N	A Very Interesting History	What I have never understood is how small the \\"government is bad\\" group thinks the federal government should be.  To take it to the extreme there would be no federal or state governments and it would be the wild west, every man for himself.  I have always taken the view that the American government is an extension of each citizen and can be a force for positive change.   Even when I try to look at it from the point of view of many that think there should be no or almost no government, I do not see the massive damage that government is supposed to do.   With all this said I was very interested in this authors book and was predisposed to follow his arguments.  <br />What I found was a nice argument against the current group of anti government \\"the true meaning of the founding fathers\\" non-stop bashing of what the federal government does.     Lets face it, there has always been and there probably always will be dislike and distrust of the government, after all the faceless government imposes rules on the average citizen and takes tax money to do so.  What this book tries to do is look at the anti government argument and really see if that is what the founding fathers were thinking.   I thought it was a very interesting and insightful look at the American history as it relates to the creation of the federal system that we have today.  To be fair I was ready to believe the arguments in the book before I read them and I have not done much reading on the founding fathers so my comments here may be skewed.   Read the book and make up your own mind.	2003-08-19
1019948:US	41012519	R3638HCA892TYD	0679404465	740816246	You Got to Dance with Them What Brung You: Politics in the Clinton Years	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A Change of Pace	After reading this authors book on George Jr. - Shrub, I was excited to pick this one up.   I figured I was going to get non-stop chapters of defense and support of President Clinton.  Unfortuantly what I wanted only covered 50% of the book.   The other half of the book covered Texas politics and personal columns on people she admired.  The book is just a few years of her columns arranged by topic into sections of the book.  This did make it easy for me to skip through the areas I was not interested in.   <br />Overall the book was funny and interesting.   I found that when she was writing on national political issues, I tended to be with her step for step.   She is not a blind supporter of President Clinton, but takes a more practical approach to her politics.  She does not just disagree with all things Republican and agree with all things Democratic.  I found that I even liked it when she did give Bill some grief about some of his many missteps.  So I really enjoyed half of the book, and given the title was surprised that anything-other then national politics was covered.  I just was not that interested in reading about a local Texas Senator working on a road project.	2003-08-07
1023523:US	41012519	R31RXMACPX1P9V	0743235355	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Lughead Revenge	Is it just me or do all books detailing a soldiers combat experience either fall into the solid and detailed account or the raw experience of battle type book?   This book was defiantly in the raw and gritty type.   I also have a sneaking suspicion that this book was either rushed out the door or held back for some time until the recent war heated up to give the book a bigger bounce once it hit the shops.  Let me tell you up front that I was disappointed with the effort.   What we got was about 25% military / Gulf War info, 25% life history of the author and 50% review of all things vulgar that you would think a 20 year old soldier would talk about.   I guess that is why this book was described on the dust jacket as gritty and raw, I just found it played to the lowest common denominator.  <br />When the author was not complaining about his love life or working out the issues he had with his father or brother, he was talking about the many different ways and issues with going to the bathroom in the different locations he has been posted.  You know I do not even think this book would appeal to a group of adolescents who want to be soldiers, because of the overriding depressive writing, nothing in this guy's life was positive.  About the only interesting thing he brought to the table were 5 new combinations of swear words I had not heard before.  I wanted an interesting account of what the war was like for a guy on the ground at the front line.  I guess I will need to keep searching for this book, because what little info I gleamed out of the book is overshadowed by the overall downer the book was to read.	2003-08-04
1028759:US	41012519	R33BCABYR2AL9M	0684868091	874944457	Front Row at the White House : My Life and Times	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A Kinder Gentler Side to Her	I have always assumed that this author would write a book that was full of nasty one liners and little back biting comments.  I got that impress just because I have always felt her questions were very brash and aggressive (not that I have any problem with that).  It turns out that the book had none of this aggressiveness.  As a matter of fact I thought she went easy on all of the Presidents and First Ladies that she covered.  The book started out with a rather dull, at least for me, run down of her life up to covering the White House.   I was only interested in the White House coverage so this Bio bit of the book was mostly skipped by me. <br />The author laid out her recollections in a nice way.  She first covered all the major events within each administration in chronological order.   She then did the same for the Press Secretaries, First Ladies and then the Presidents.   All of it was interesting with a good number of details about the individual people involved.  She had a lot of stories to tell and they filled the book up nicely.   Again my only complaint was that it seemed to me that she pulled some of her punches.  She really did not give Nixon a lot of trouble for Watergate nor Reagan for Iran-Contra.  I thought she was toughest on Clinton, but that could be due to my own likes and dislikes of the Presidents in question.   Overall I liked the book and found it easy to read and full of new facts.	2003-07-31
1032580:US	41012519	RYUEEQICCSQGO	1560252596	768101453	Blood: Stories of Life and Death from the Civil War (Adrenaline Series)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not Much Adrenaline Needed On This One	This review is going to be heavily shaded by the fact that the book turned out to be nothing like what the title, dust jacket and series name implied.  My impressions of what I was going to get with the book was down and dirty hard core descriptions of fighting.  Real meaty descriptions that would really provide me an insight to what it was like in the thick of the battle.   What were the Calvary charges like, what were the conditions in the POW camps, what was the battle field medical care like, almost an Ambrose on the Civil War.  If this book tried to document what I just described then the editor must be found and prevented from ever committing this kind of crime again.   I will give the editor some credit and think that maybe the Marketing department got a little ahead of themselves in describing this book as the \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" of Civil War books.   <br />The book was made up of an assortment of chapters from many different authors.  Some of the authors are historians and some are historical figures.   The chapters were not in and of themselves that bad, it was just that it seams that they were the sale items of the literary world.  They just did not flow together that well, were not particularly well written or exciting and covered far more issues then just combat.  There were even some fictionalized accounts, did the editor forget this was a non-fiction book?    There are no twos ways about it, I was disappointed in the book from about page 5 on.   I am going to cut it a little slack in my rating just because I do not read a lot on the Civil War thus do not know how this book stacks up with others.	2003-07-28
1037432:US	41012519	R2NBF9NOYFY41C	0393322963	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	4	12	19	N	N	How Can There Be So Many Errors?	I actually did not think I was going to get the level of disdain and outright dislike the author has for Bush Jr.  Sure the books main theme is that Jr. is possibly dyslexic and probably not a mental giant, but this author kept on with the name calling through the whole book, idiot, moron and dumb were well used.  With this said, it really did not bother me, I actually found his comments to be rather funny.  The author filled the book with so many mistakes that Bush Jr. has made in his public speaking that you really have to wonder the total brainpower that the man has.  I actually did not realize he had made so many down right stupid statements.  I do not think the volume of these misstatements can be explained away as common speaking errors, there are just too many.      <BR>  <BR>There were two things that I was a bit bothered by with the book.   The first was the authors fixation of trying to tie Jr. back to Nixon through his father.  There may be a slight correlation, but with the author trying so hard to join Nixon and Jr. together it just did not work.   Plus the only reason to tie the two men together is to hurt the reputation of Jr. (not that he needs any help).   I thought that was unfair and unsubstantiated.  The second issues was that the author reached on maybe a handful of the misstatements that Jr. made.  The author really tried to tie a few statements to overall errors or mistakes in thinking, which was a stretch.   The effect of this stretching was that the overall message is diluted some.  I mean Jr. does not need anyone helping him in sounding dumb.   Overall the book is interesting and entertaining.	2003-07-24
1040882:US	41012519	R1NA1ZQUDD78F0	0375508619	513748034	The Hunt for Bin Laden: Task Force Dagger	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Hunt For The Correct Title	It is really something that this author picked the one title of this book that would mislead the public the most.   The book focused on the war effort that the Special Forces were involved in.  The book does not cover the hunt for UBL other then in the context of the overall effort the Special Forces troops put into the over throwing of the Taliban government.  The book is also not a review of the overall war effort.  The book is good at what it does deliver which, is a good look at the battles the Special Forces groups were involved in and their methods of combat.  The author spells out a lot of good information that I had not previously heard in the media.   He does a good job in detailing out the different combat operations and does not get to in depth with the gun ho macho descriptions that somehow find there way in to most combat books.     <br />I would have liked the author to have provided a little bit of an overall review of the war effort to help the reader understand the Special Forces operations and how they fit into the full story of the war.   The book is an interesting review of fighting, but I would have liked a bit more detail.  I felt the author was skimming the surface on many different sections and did not seam to give the reader the full story.  Overall it is easy to read and interesting book.   It gave the reader a good view of the Special Forces work and good details on the prison uprising, the CIA officer's death, the Tora Bora effort and operation Anaconda.	2003-07-21
1046071:US	41012519	R2LN1APNGXI0C	0801486394	597860541	Sound and Fury: The Making of the Punditocracy	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Let the Fur Fly	I am a self confessed political junky which means that as well as reading a number of books on the American political process I also indulge in a few hours a week of pundit television.  With that said I was more then a little excited to read this book given that basically it covers the people that cover the politics I like.  The book is not just a review of the major TV personalities of the day.   The author starts out with something of a history of the pundit profession.  This section held the least interest for me and I found myself skipping a few pages here and there.   The author also covers the major print columnists that are making their voices heard.   <br />The real interest for me was the details on the television personalities.  Even though this book was written in 92, many of the same people are still the pundits stars now.  The author has a sharp wit, which he uses with deviating effect on these masters of the sound bite.  He takes on each of the pundits and gives you his opinion and all the gossip that is fit to print.  He comments run from sharp to down right nasty.  For some reason this author has a rather large chip on his shoulder and is not shy about venting his dislike via this book.  He also lets many of his personal political views slide into the writing, at times I think he really wanted to do a review of Reagan / Bush presidencies.	2003-07-17
1049599:US	41012519	R3UBQAXTII42JM	0520040945	451001639	Soviet Perceptions of the United States	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Where There is Smoke	When I found this book my interest was peeked.  How often have we all read books from the perception of the US or UK governments of the Soviet Union.  The Soviets are always portrayed in a rather negative light.   I thought it would be very informative to see how they perceived us.   I was rather excited to read the book.  Unfortuantly for me the only thing less dull then this book is watching water evaporate.  You can tell this book was written and published because of a tenor requirement for a college professor.  I can just image classes of 19 year olds trying to get through his dense, dry and dull writing.    Walking through pudding up to your neck in December would be easier then completing this book.  What kind of sick man would force college kids to read this book?<br />To be honest I could only force myself to get through half of the book, it was just so  badly written that even the interesting bits were bogged down with the obscure word choice.   The best use for the book going forward would be as a doorstop or coaster.  Save yourself the money, time and headaches and pass by this book fast.	2003-07-14
1052936:US	41012519	R25UNIUKQTL453	0898757894	834799004	Battlefield of the Future: 21st Century Warfare Issues	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Real Battle to Finish	This is a book about strategy and war fighting in the midst of what is being called a revolution in military affairs as the world moves into the twenty-first century.  The authors covered topics such as military operations against a NBC-arming sponsor of terrorism, the use of missiles against military and civilian targets and a full view of weapons of mass destruction.  Overall not the lightest of topics.  The authors are either professional military officers or civilian professionals who specialize in national security issues.  The author's backgrounds and the topics discussed made the book far from an easy read.  It was dry and at times rather dense.  With this said the authors did come off as experts in their fields and the chapters they covered were complete and well thought out.  <br />I thought the book's main purpose was to focus attention on the operational, strategy, and threat challenges that will confront US national security decision-makers as they face some of the battlefield of the future.  At least this is what the forward told me what was going to be covered.   The author's did cover these items and from what I know, they did a good job.   It was just that the book was a bit dry.   I thought the book was something really written for professional military types, not the average reader who is interested in the military.   If you are looking for something to give you the highlights this may not be the book for you.	2003-07-11
1055709:US	41012519	R1MDL43XDF46F3	0140233040	563588359	The Bill : How Legislation Really Becomes Law: A Case Study of the National Service Bill	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Wake Me When It Is Over	I do not think I have ever taken this much time to read such a short book.   At least it seamed to me that it took a long time.  It was like walking up a never-ending hill.  The only reason I kept plodding along is that I was interested in the overall outcome.  What I am trying to say is that the book is dull.  It is also that the subject is a bit on the non-sexy side so coupled with the authors \\"mathematics textbook\\" style of writing, it made a little book into something close to the Battan death march.  Ok, I may be overstating it a bit, after all I did work my way through the book.   The one good thing I can say is that the first half of the book was far better then the second half.   How the author turned his already dull prose into something that was almost life threatening I will never know. <br />With all this said there were some parts of the book that gave me some insight on how legislation works its way along the process.  The part I thought was most interesting is all the groups that stick their hands into the bill.  People with what appeared to me to have almost no or little effects from the bill got involved and tried to get their two cents in.   Plus all the back handed and obstructionist activities made me wonder how anything gets done in Washington.  Overall the book was dull, but did offer a tour of what it takes to get a bill passed.  There has to be better books out there on the topic, I just do not know what they are.	2003-07-09
1057656:US	41012519	R25AXDJG3F1038	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Too Short	A very short book that is long on rhetoric.   To be fair let me say that on the overall position this author takes on the war is different from mine.  The reason I read the book is that I have heard the author speak over the years and found him to be very entertaining with well thought out (if not always to my liking) arguments.  I expected a book with the same level of insight.  Given that I disagreed with the authors position in support of the US going to war, I found it a bit difficult to judge the arguments with real objectivity.   I actually kept getting a bit mad at some of the overstated (in my opinion) comments about what is best for the world and the population of Iraq.  I also could not help myself and kept trying to put holes in his arguments and look for any statements that I knew to be in error.  <br />So the overall outcome of the book was that I was somewhat frustrated and somewhat happy with myself for being able to spot a few inconsistencies or arguments that were very one sided and somewhat short of facts.  If you agree with the author then you will be very happy with the book.  He does do a great job of explaining his position.   He is a wonderful wordsmith if not just a bit bitter (about what I do not know).  I guess my biggest complaint is that he rushed this one out the door without much new comment except for a brief introduction.  I would have liked a bit more effort, at least to bulk the book up to be more then a thin 100 pages.	2003-07-07
1063197:US	41012519	R36QWXNQP0IO4Z	1583225900	996674017	Power and Terror: Post-9/11 Talks and Interviews	Books	3	5	12	N	N	A Little More Needed	I have to admit that I both agreed with the authors overall stance of the war and many of his views on how America should use its power in the world.  I also tend to fall a little left of the mainstream so with all these factors I should have loved this book - right?   Well to my amazement I did not love the book and can just barley say with a straight face that I enjoyed it.   First off this was not a well thought out book but a bunch of second run speeches and some interviews.  I would image that the editor spent more time putting the bits together then the author did in even thinking about what should go in the book.   Overall it just came off to me as a money grab.<br />Again I agreed with a number of the points, or the points that were not way over the top.   What I found was that the author would make some well thought out comments and then at the end of the section trough in some kind of off the deep end comment that made me want to discount all the valid points.  These are the type of comments that are probably not that well thought out that give this author a less then stellar name.   Overall the book was average and the most lasting impression it left with me is that I probably will not buy another one of his works.	2003-07-03
1066053:US	41012519	R1PY42V80JBMUP	0684872137	341288551	The Silent War: The Cold War Battle Beneath the Sea	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not Much of a Battle	I am a sucker for any submarine stories so when I found this book I thought it would be a wonderful and exciting book.   After all this is the guy that built or managed most of the projects so surly he is going to have just an arm load of great stories right?  Well let me say that it was a good thing he was a good author because the detail is rather thin.   He states that he is prohibited from talking about most of the interesting details because he was a participant, not just an investigative reporter.   So the book gives the reader a brief overview of the interesting operational items and goes into depth on more of the management issues.  Not really what I was looking for.<br />To be fair to the author he does do a good job in writing the book.  Even though there is a limit to the amount of operational \\"Hunt for Red October\\" type details in the book, he does make it interesting.   I kept thinking the real value to the book is as a companion to some of the many other books out there now that detail some of the stories briefly mentioned in this book.  Overall the book was interesting and well written, it was just not a real exciting book.	2003-07-01
1071371:US	41012519	R3B3TIDAG1T4ZX	1558506292	952661539	What's Left?: A New Democratic Vision for America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not That Much New	To be honest I was a little disappointed with this book.   Not because of what was written, but what was not written.   I thought the book would be a well thought out plan or direction that the Democratic Party should take over the next decade.   What I got was a review of Newt and the 94 -96 battles, a review of the Clinton administrations first term and then finally a view as to what is to come.  Again the book was well written and the items covered were done so with a lot of passion, it was just not what I expected.    I must admit that I love to read any book that gives Newt a hard time and this author certainly has no love for the man.  <br />As far as the direction that the party should take going forward there were a lot of good common sense items that were spelled out.   So many so that one wonders why they are not acted on instead of all the minor issues that our current group of public servants like to go on about.  The real issue is not really coming up with the ideas, it is having a leader that can articulate the issues and show the average American that the Democratic platform is a positive force for them.  Unfortunately what we are probably going to get is two years of arguing about WMD and who knew what and not focusing on the real issues and how to make American a better place for us all to live.  Overall the book was a good read, it just fell short of the stated purpose.	2003-06-26
1074416:US	41012519	R2QV1QQ54A3266	0394524020	936937222	The Threat	Books	3	3	5	N	N	To Whom	After reading this book the first thing that came to my mind was how could this rag tag bunch of vagabonds get together and build any of the weapons they then tried to operate?  This book is one half anti right 'strong defense' hating and one half expose on incompetence.  I picked this book up because I thought it would be interesting to understand more about the Soviet weapons and set up given that the majority of the conflicts the US seams to be getting into lately are against countries that were equipped and trained by the USSR.  The book did deliver a good run down of these items, but the authors also included a nice run down of the arguments made during the cold war to support certain weapons systems based on the advanced USSR versions only to find out later that the USSR version did not exist or could barely turn on.  <br />This the arguments on the unnecessary defense purchases the author tends to let his political views slide into the text.  For me this was not an issue as I tended to agree with his comments, but if you are a strong supporter of Republican 'Any weapon system is a good weapon system' group then you will probably become aggravated by chapter two.   Overall I found the book to be interesting and easy to read.   The only compliant I would have is that there were no pictures or illustrations of the weapons the author was talking about.   The picture would have added a lot of value for me.  If you are interested in military history or weapons then this is a nice overview of the best the USSR had in the early 80's.	2003-06-24
1081261:US	41012519	R1JZ4VOVVQRAPP	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	4	5	N	N	All Around the World	After reading a rash of left leaning books recently that pretty much blame all of the worlds problems on free trade and globalization it was nice to read this book.  This book has gotten the reputation of the \\"everything you need to know about globalization\\" book so I thought it would be nice to balance my reading.  I have also read some of the authors other work and knew he was a talented author.   Well let me say that it was a real pleasure to read this book.   The author did not disappoint in any way what so ever.   He has a firm grasp on the subject and a wonderful talent for describing complicated ideas in a Joe Average way.   He hit all the high points in the free trade and globalization book of tricks and made it understandable.  <br />The author also spent a lot of time creating titles for groups of people, companies or markets that lead the world into the new age of globalization.   Given the fear some people and groups have about the one world order and other such nonsense, I was surprised that the author did not spend more time taking this group on.  I also found the name dropping the author did a little annoying, ok it was nice at first but toward the end of the book I thought he was trying to prove something.   Overall the book is a wonderfully written book that you will learn a great deal from.	2003-06-20
1085040:US	41012519	R10ZQQ1T11PEIO	0836213149	520785073	America: Who Stole the Dream?	Books	3	7	16	N	N	A Bit of a Nightmare	I have read some of these authors other works and they fall on the same side as Michael Moore of anything to do with the current business environment.  Basically anything a corporation does that is not to the benefit of the worker is just dirty pool.   Sure they point out a few rather nasty effects of NAFTA and oversees work forces, but what they fail to also document is that the American public wants the inexpensive goods and is not overly concerned how they get them.  Are there trade issues that are not fair to the US, sure there are, but again the authors do not dig deeper to explain more then the surface trade issue.  With all trade items there is a political background that is a large part of why we all certain relationships to exist.  <br />For example the authors spend a good deal of time beating up the Japanese for their very protective trade rules.  The authors imply that the current sets of politicians are so inept that they do not see the issue and can not correct it.  What the authors don't tell you is that the US has to play nice in order to keep the large number of US military bases on Japan to keep North Korea in check.  We are also pushing Japan with both hands to beef up their own military to help in Asia issues.  Due to these issues the US has to make some concessions on trade.   Plus with each country and region of the world there are many different social issues at play.  It could be that some of these countries would rather buy their own products.   Overall the book was interesting, but I felt it was not the full story.  I also grew a little tired of the overall level of complaining.	2003-06-17
1090383:US	41012519	RYLL2M8WE5RDB	0812923251	370112538	Madhouse:: The Private Turmoil of Working for the President	Books	3	1	2	N	N	All Work and No Play	This book is an interesting look at 6 different mid level White House staff during the first two years of the Clinton administration.   The book is not a review of the first two years, just a focus on what it is like for these six people.  The first thing that I thought was just how much these people work, 7 days a week and 90 plus hours is the norm, it is no wonder they burn out after year or so.  Other then that bit of info, for me there really was nothing all that new about the book.  It basically described that fact that these jobs are very difficult, unforgiving and at times not very fun.     <br />One gets a kind of hopeless feeling at times reading this book as many of the people covered seam to at times.   This is probably the best part of the authors work in that he was able to convey just how hard it was working under so much stress in a very unorganized situation and constantly being attacked.  I think I have a better appreciation for the people that do the work that goes unnoticed in all White Houses.  The book is somewhat interesting and not badly written, it just does not give the reader that much new info and it is limited to only the view of these six people.	2003-06-12
1093930:US	41012519	R23RAMJ1C46PTN	0060988096	980531668	Adventures in a TV Nation	Books	4	13	16	N	N	The Real TV Guide	The only reason I found this book and read it was the book Stupid White Men.   I read that book and just found it very entertaining if not always on the mark.   This book also provided an interesting and entertaining book, but with a little different direction then the authors other two books.   In the book the author's main point is to tell you about some of the different segments that he had on his TV show.  To be honest I never saw the show so I did not know what to expect.  Well it is a lot of fun, the author takes his distrust of the man and goes after them at every opportunity.   It was just a bunch of laughs and I kept thinking to myself, why did the show go off the air?  Basically the author has some deeply engrained dislike for authority or large business because those are the targets of his unique style of humor.     <br />To be fair the book is rather light, he does not give you a lot of detail about the particular people he after nor about the segments, just enough for you to get the drift and then move on.  I started to think that the real purpose of the book is just to get me to either order the tapes of the show from him or to rent them.  He gives you a number of nice convenient ordering options at the back of the book.  That is what always cracks me up about him, he goes after big business and in the process he has become a big business.   Anyway the book is funny, light and easy to get through.    It is a fun book that does not require too much deep thought.	2003-06-10
1098777:US	41012519	R2V7AX05S6PHXJ	0833029983	864724311	Russia's Chechen Wars 1994-2000: Lessons from Urban Combat	Books	4	19	23	N	N	How To Lose the PR War	This book is a very workman like review of the war, not a personal memoir, but a just the facts kind of book.  The author examines the two different combat periods during this civil war and basically runs down all the mistakes and pretty horrible things that the Russian military did.    The book gives the reader a good idea of the difficulties any military operation would face in an inter city fight against gorilla or paramilitary troops.  It is not a pretty picture.   In a slight way you almost feel sorry for the difficulties faced by the Russian military but then you turn the page and the author details out the leveling of an apartment block or set of houses by artillery just to get one sniper and you sober up rather fast.  I also found the details of the tactics used by the Russian forces to be an interesting detail given that the majority of the wars the US has been in over the past 30 years have been fought by militaries trained, supplied or controlled by the USSR / Russia.   It gives you a better feel for how a Baghdad street fight might have played out. <br />The authors take the view that about the only area the Russians did worse then protecting innocent civilians is in the area of public relations.  The first mistake the Russians made was that they let the press loss with the troops for the first time ever.   The Russian military has always been closed and controlled so when the rains are dropped you can only imagine the time of headline grabbing stories were sent back from the front lines.   Well the Russians figures out that they were starting to look bad in the world press so they went about mistake number two - a complete shutdown of the press.  Well the press did not much care for this and turned it into the next biggest story out of the war.   Basically the Russians did nothing correct on the public relations front.   Overall the book is interesting and gives the reader a view a story that is not very well known.	2003-06-05
1102041:US	41012519	RX7CAAN0C7CCH	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	3	10	24	N	N	Author is Very Bitter	Be careful in getting too close to this author as the massive chip on his shoulder could cause complete upper body collapse thus getting you covered in venom.   I do not even think Al Gore is this mad and upset with the US Supreme Court, wow it just went on and on with the nastiness and venom.  It was almost like the hatred Rush L. has for President Clinton.  At first it fit with the theme and direction of the book.   The author is making the case that what the US Supreme Court did with the election of 2000 was against the law and outside of what the court really should deal with.   He goes on to detail out how he thinks that decisions made were done so only on a political basis.  And I was with the author for this discussion and for the major themes of the book.   I just could not get past the massive amount of negative barbs and one liners.   It made me think that maybe the author is not giving me the full story or his view is so infected with hate that no matter what the facts detailed, he would find \\"facts\\" to fit his cause.<br />Again, I was more then willing to believe it all and read even more of the details on what the court did / did not do and how there actions were not in holding with the law.   I loved the details on the possible political motives of the judges.  It was just that I wanted a telling of the facts in a little less aggravated and \\"beat me over the head\\" style.  Overall the book did provide some interesting facts and enforced my views regarding the whole 2000-election theft, it was just the tone of the author even pushed me to question his accuracy.  Can someone with so much distrust and dislike of these five judges render a fair account of the facts?	2003-06-03
1111619:US	41012519	R2M7B9HSHZP2XC	B00008JYQ9	510295481	Them: Adventures with Extremists	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A Clown Parade	I was looking forward to reading this book based on the dust jacket comments.   I was expecting a laugh a minute kind of book, unfortunately that was not what I found.  The first few chapters were interesting with some humor but I found the book started to drag toward the end as the characters were dropping off in interest levels for me.   Toward the end of the book I was getting disappointed.  I admit that I bought the book for some humor, but also to learn something about the extremist groups the author was spending time with.  I did learn some things, mostly about how some people will go off the deep end with some of these conspiracy theories that make the majority of us chuckle and wonder how people come up with this stuff.  <br />I did like how the author calmly and as with as little bias as possible, explained the position of some of the nut jobs.  How a Jewish person can spend that much time with the KKK or a Muslim extremists and not snipe at them in his book is some feat. The end of the book wraps up with the big old \\"one group controlling the whole world\\" theory.   The one constant I think I found with the book is that it seamed that all of the people he spent time with seamed as lame as the next one.   I found the book average but an easy and quick read.	2003-05-26
1113955:US	41012519	R2AVF910XK20QJ	1564320294	246350656	Needless Deaths in the Gulf War: Civilian Casualties During the Air Campaign and Violations of the Laws of War (MIDDLE EAST WATCH REPORT)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	War is a Messy Thing	When I picked up this book I was sure that it was going to be 200 pages of a full-scale rant against Bush, the UAS and military operations in general.   I was prepared for a full-blown assault on my senses by the way left peace activists.  It turns out that I was wrong.  The report does take a critical eye at the military operations and there are a few bits of the book that hit an anti-war note, but overall I felt that the reporting was fair.   Now do not get me wrong, this report set out to document every mistake or oversight the military made during the war that resulted in civilian deaths.  If you think this kind of reporting is anti American then I would suggest you pass up the book (you are probably not even this far given the title).  <br />The authors of the report try their best to be accurate, but the vast majority of their reporting is based on civilian accounts of the situations in refugee camps.   I am not saying these people lied, but I would have to say that the average civilian that saw battle damage may not have the full story.   Regardless of this, it did seam to me that they tried to get multiple sources for each item and US military backup for each event.  I think the most important reason to read a book like this is to get an overall understanding that warfare is a very dangerous and damaging event.  Many people are killed or injured and as the people of the USA have not had a war at home for over a 100 years we tend to forget or gloss over the massive damage a modern war does to the civilian population.  Overall the book is interesting and not badly written, it is just not going to provide any new earth shattering news.	2003-05-23
1115937:US	41012519	R1LPGZK1DXTWHZ	1879957523	997979120	Fools for Scandal: How The Media Invented Whitewater	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not Enough Scandal	I am about 5 years too late in reading this book.  There has been so much else written about this particular item that only a new comer to the issue will find this book full of new and interesting information.  For the complete picture on Whitewater and all the other Clinton scandals you should read \\"Hunting the President\\" by this same author, it is more up to date and covers all the issues.  With all that said I still did enjoy parts of the book, I never fail to like reading about how the very anti-Clinton crowd in the 90's did everything they could to make his time in the White House as difficult as possible.  The book gives the reader the first cut at how the media and a few Clinton enemies created and kept going the Whitewater non-story.  Too bad this much energy would not have been put to positive projects. <br />My complaint with the book is based on the fact that I have read a number of new books about this time frame that went deeper into the whole anti-Clinton industry of the 90's and with that back ground this book looks a little shallow.  I would have liked more detail on how more of the right wing publications and benefactors pushed the story non-stop.   I also would have liked a better review of how the Clinton White House handled the accusations.  Overall the book is fine and if this is your introduction to the issue then it is a good starting point.  If you have read a lot on the issue then this book will be nothing too new for you.	2003-05-21
1119272:US	41012519	R2SD202HY4T8MS	083303071X	307379592	Special Operations Forces and Enemy Ground Targets:  Lessons from Vietnam and the Persian Gulf War	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Quality was also Elusive	Don't set aside too much for this one.  Calling this report a book is a bit generous, more like a bound two part magazine article.   I wrote longer papers in college.  With that rant out of the way what about the \\"book\\".  Lacking would sum it up in one word.  Basically the level of detail here would be two good chapters in a larger book, there just was not enough meat.  The authors give a high level overview of Special Forces operations in two similar missions in the Vietnam and Gulf War.   Really though it covered only one operation from each war.   In Vietnam it covered operations on locating transport trucks on the Ho Chi Min trail and in the Gulf War it covered the scud hunt in the desert.  <br />It is not so much that the author did not bite off enough of a subject to write a decent book, but what he did produce was far two high to be anything other than an overview.  Again it seamed like this was the opening chapters to a more detailed book on the subjects.  Not to be too negative, the author did have a good writing style that was easy to read.  It is just that that is the only positive I can come up with.   Overall I was very disappointed and would not recommend this book.	2003-05-19
1122713:US	41012519	RAV2B2DQ0IT10	0684807688	660966229	They Only Look Dead: Why Progressives Will Dominate the Next Political Era	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Check the Pulse	This was just an all around excellent book, not only did it have the tone and future I am hoping for, but it was just so well written.  The pages just moved effortlessly on and on and before I knew it the book was over.   The only disappointment would be that it had to end.  Basically the author takes a look at the early 90's and makes an argument that the trend in America is moving to more support for the Democrats if they can maintain the perception that they have evolved as a party with the times.  There is just a ton of interesting facts and stories woven together to provide a very convincing argument.  <br />I admit, I wanted to be sold so I am not the most objective as to the overall effectiveness of the argument so take this review with a grain of salt.  I guess it is comforting, if not a bit short sighted, for me to believe the book in it's totality, but I want a nice view of the future and this book provided it.  If you are a Democrat and are not feeling too good about the current state of affairs then this book will give you hope and who knows, maybe the author is correct.	2003-05-16
1124038:US	41012519	RNZ3AA65ODKAG	0813316146	663449557	The Persian Gulf Tv War (Critical Studies in Communication and in the Cultural Industries)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Channel Surfing	I found this book to be rather interesting and fresh look at the war and the TV coverage.   It is also interesting given the current events in the Gulf.  Reading a book like this you really get a good feel for how countries look after themselves in international affairs.   The book takes a bit of a dissenting look at the war with a cautious eye at the news media.   Basically the author does not have a lot of good things to say about President Bush and his administration.    There are some conspiracy theories floated in the book, but not enough to make the document fall into the \\"unbelievable rant\\" category. <br />The overriding direction the book takes is the argument that instead of debating the issues of public concern surrounding the war, the mainstream media uncritically promoted the policies of the Bush administration and military.  The author goes on to try and prove that the media was managed by the US government in one of the best-managed media propaganda campaigns in history.  The author certainly believed this theory; it was just that I as the reader was not convinced that there was the large conspiracy.  <br />It just seamed to me that the issues the author highlighted could also be explained as the media needing to fill 24 hours a day of breaking news so they grasp at anything they can get.  Also the claims he makes that the new outlets were in the Bush back pockets because they were so excited to be at war, I came away thinking it was just natural to be excited when reporting about such issues as a war.  The one complaint I do have is the authors almost debilitating hatred for all things large and bureaucratic, he dislikes the government and big media.  The problem is that it tended to shade his writing and I found myself skipping past some of the nastier comments or sections.  This took away from what otherwise was an interesting and unique look at the war and the TV coverage it received.	2003-05-14
1127539:US	41012519	R28545EDRZPNWQ	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Sharp Wit - Harsh Tone	Oh boy, one more book that details out all that went on with the 2000 election.  It just makes my skin crawl that in American this type of activity can take place and there is not more of an outrage.  The book is worth the purchase prices just for the section on Bush Jr.  It gives the reader the down and dirty on him that is probably closer to the truth then some of the puff reporting that is going on via FOX et all.   The author also covers some other slimy politicians and to be honest I usually can not get enough of this stuff so I was enjoying every page.  The last half of the book is basically a run down of some of the more back-handed and devious ways corporate big wigs get away with murder plus a nice big old WTO, World Bank and IMF are running the world conspiracy rant.   I did find the info interesting and the author does provide a good amount of detail and facts to back up his claims.<br />I was disappointed with the way the author strung the book together.  The chapters just did not flow together smoothly.  They gave the reader the impression that the central theme to the book was not well developed, at least in the writing.  I even found that within some chapters the author seemed to bounce from one topic to another.  The author also has a significant chip on his shoulder; sure that makes for good investigative reporters, but at times I thought maybe he was going out of his way to find the problem.  Small items that did not take much away from the book.   Overall it was entertaining and informative.	2003-05-12
1129999:US	41012519	R1AP7O2ZXU6YVS	0833032372	310891380	NATO's Air War for Kosovo: A Strategic and Operational Assessment	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Book	I was very impressed with this book.  I have read a number of books on this operation and the book I thought would be the best overall review was the book written by General Clark.  Unfortunately, for me that book did not provide much detail on the actual working of the operation.   He focused on the political side of the air war and what it took to get the NATO members to play nice with each other.  I came away from his book with some details, but a bit disappointed.   This book on the other hand was exactly what I wanted.  I always love it when I pick up a book and it turns out to completely exceed my expectations.  It's like getting a great surprise gift.<br />This book had it all, a good overview of the lead up to the NATO action, a solid review of the weapon systems that were used, when they were used and how they were used, coverage of the operational issues and a good overall political review.   I truly think that if you are looking for the one volume book that covers the war from the NATO point of view then this is the one.  The book also did a good job in covering the effectiveness of the overall campaign and the working relationship of NATO.  The authors did not present it as all success and good feeling, but the true problems that came out of any operation of this size with this many chiefs.  He authors do a good job of presenting the difficulties of working on an operation with so many people that have to agree and showing that this organizational structure did more for the Serbian's then anyone else.  Overall I thought this was a great book.	2003-05-09
1132578:US	41012519	R1GHNMNNH8M5KS	1569778809	142828251	Special Trust	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lets Blame North	I bought this book only to read more on the Iran - Contra issue.   I was at first disappointed that only a third of the book covered the issue, but once I read the full book I was pleased.  I found that the coverage of his involvement in Iran - Contra to be fair, but a little bit unconvincing.   I have read a number of books on this particular event and the one common theme is that everybody likes to blame Oliver North, except North who blamed Reagan.  I did think that some of his explanations came very close to almost a statement that \\"it was not my fault because I did not know what was going on\\".  I would have liked a little less blame shifting.  <br />I think the real value in the book was his coverage of his time involved in foreign affaires and as the National Security Advisor.   There was a good amount of detail on basically all the foreign items of interest during the Reagan years.  I found his insights into the other players in the administration also rather interesting, but not unreported in other books.  Overall the book was interesting, probably more so for a political junky or someone with a deep interest in the Reagan administration.	2003-05-07
1136802:US	41012519	R3VX6RD08U247A	1587420031	189191069	Dachau Liberated : The Official Report	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Bad Report	Disappointed and just a little bit mad, that sums up my feelings after reading this book.   I had high hopes for the book given that I had read a similar book on another camp that was very good.   This book, on the other hand just was very lacking in detail and organization. The book is the 7th Army's report on the camp issued shortly after the liberation.  The book tried to cover the set up of the camp, what took place in the camp, the make up of the SS staff, and a few personnel accounts of time in camp.   The authors just did none of these items very well.   The book was poorly organized.  The coverage of the camp set up and running of the camp was far too short and really lacked in detail.   And the personnel accounts were mainly of people in somewhat privileged support roles quite unlike the average prisoner.   <br />I wish this was the extent of my issues with the book, but on top of all this the writing just was not that good.   The writing was rather jumpy and not very challenging.   It was like reading a bad high school history report.   Overall I would pass on this book.   There are far too many quality books covering this topic to spend any time on this one.   The only reason I am giving the book a two is I somehow feel guilty about giving a very low rating to book dealing with such a horrible event.	2003-05-03
1139910:US	41012519	R2JFA4QDUZLLTM	0671737201	218708649	Marching in Place: The Status Quo Presidency of George Bush	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More Like Sleepwalking	This could have been called the tail of two authors / Presidents.  The book covers the Presidency of George Bush Sr. and similar to the Administration, the book has two faces.   To me it seams that the foreign affaires sections of the book held the better writing style and most of the excitement or accomplishments.  The domestic affaires section writing was just a bit less interesting; it lacked a certain spark that a good political book has.   Given these two slightly different styles I would assume that the authors spilt up the duties and one wrote the domestic section, the other the foreign affaires section.   One could also draw an interesting parallel with the actual Bush administration as they did a good job on everything outside the U.S.  With this said, the authors take a critical look at the Bush years and they do not give it high marks outside of the Gulf War.  The book is actually quite negative toward the Bush Administration, but in line with the current historical view of his presidency.<br />I also found it interesting, reading the book, on how many similarities there seem to be with Bush Sr. and Bush Jr.  I can only assume that as time goes on a few books with come out with a detailed analysis of the father son team to compare and contrast the two administrations.   If you are interested in that kind of thing this book would give you a good look at the job the father did.  Overall, I found the book for the most part far and accurate in my opinion.  If you are a big fan of Bush Sr. then this book will leave you a bit upset as the authors take a very critical look.  It did drag at times and was not the exciting insider's tail that tends to make for the most interesting of political administration overviews.   It did offer a very good record of what took place during the administration.	2003-04-30
1143203:US	41012519	R2HRXF04ZMXAF2	067940693X	856376204	David Brinkley	Books	2	8	12	N	N	He Forgot The Interesting Stuff	Disappointed almost to the point of disgust, to put it in as straightforward a way as possible.  How can someone that has been involved in so much history give us a memoir with so little to say.  He has seen so much, interviewed so many important and influential people during the last 40 years surly he has better stories then this.  The book started out with the obligatory small town boy stories with the average level of interest, unfortunately the book really never got past this dull, inconsequential stuff.  He gave as much time to getting stuck with a dinner bill by the Kennedy's as he did the assassination of JFK.   You decide which is more important.  Overall I felt the book was a major let down.	2003-04-28
1144955:US	41012519	R15JDC6PEXE92H	0812929632	848328607	Show Time:: The American Political Circus and the Race for the White House	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Comedy Hour	A laugh on every page, the author just kept the jokes coming.   He missed his true calling, he should write comedy.   Who would have thought that a dull political campaign that was almost decided from the start could be this funny?  The author takes us through the 1996 presidential campaign with the main focus on the Dole campaign.   The author was as brutally honest about the inept Dole campaign as he funny.  Looking at the Dole campaign now you really see just how badly they performed from speeches to talking points.    The author also included verbatim transcripts of some Dole stump speeches, and what a mess they were.  Small children can put together more coherent thoughts.  I really started to feel sorry for the guy after awhile.  What a contrast the Clinton campaign proved to be, they scripted everything from backgrounds during speeches to person placement on stage during the debates.<br />I think the only complaint I could have is that the book stayed focused on Dole for about 60% of the time leaving the rest for Clinton and the other contenders.   This is understandable given that the Dole campaign appeared to be the biggest mess and that is the way reporters handle a campaign by following the same guy around most of the time.  I just would have liked the authors quick wit focused on some of the other unique personalities that also ran that year.  Overall the book is great for its humor content alone.   It also gives the reader an interesting insight to this campaign and campaigns in general.   If you are a political junkie then this book will really make you smile.	2003-04-26
1147602:US	41012519	RU4LF3XUQLAJJ	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting Yet Rushed	I actually thought this book would be a little more right leaning then it turned out to be, after all the author worked in the Reagan administration and writes for some rather conservative organizations.   Instead I found the book to be very fair and have almost no bias.  I tend to be a bit more liberal so I think I have a good nose for right wing comments and this book really did not have many.  The author explores the differences he sees in the way that American and Europe handle similar political issues.   I have a unique perspective on this area, because I am an American that lives in Europe so I experience some of the social comments the author makes.  As I read the book I kept finding myself agreeing with the author.  It seemed to me that he kept hitting the nail on the head.  I actually got the book to see if his comments would be close to the reality as I see it (hoping to disagree with the author), and it turned out he was right on the money.<br />This book is probably most helpful to an American trying to understand why the relationship between the Bush administration and the leaders of Europe has seemed so strained over the past two years.  It is especially interesting given the divides with the Iraq war.   Overall I found the book interesting and helpful.   My only complaint would be the size.  I kept finding areas that I felt the author could have expanded on more, given the reader a bit more background.   I can only assume that in the rush to print the book the author decided speed was more important then completeness.	2003-04-24
1148312:US	41012519	R2XQID2NCROIIL	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	5	48	69	N	N	Exactly Correct	Judging from the reviews here and the vast difference between the people that enjoyed the book and the people that hated the book you can tell that the author hit a nerve.    Although some reviews here argue that the book is just more of the same old Liberal Media; if you read the book you will find a very well-written and thought out documentation of the state of the current \\"media\\" and that they have moved past center and into the land of the conservative right.  The book is very good with just a bit of nastiness thrown at the far right conservatives that have attacked he author in the past (and after this book has come out thouse attacked have increased).  To be honest I was concerned the book would be a bit dull given that I had seen a few interviews the author gave and he did not come across on TV as a very engaging person.   Well his writing style is the polar opposite of his \\"on air\\" personality.   He is quick witted and sharp.  <br />I just did not find anything objectionable about the book.  What I did find is enough ammunition to argue any case of liberal bias in the media with anyone.  How, after reading the book, you would not come to the same understanding as the author I do not know.  You would have to be so set in your current mindset that no amount of proof and well-constructed argument would change your mind.   Then again people still swear Elvis is alive.   Overall the book was great and a must read if you are interested in the media or liberal politics.  It is all the proof you need that the \\"Liberal Media\\" is a long incorrect statement that gives the far right another name calling opportunity.	2003-04-23
1152604:US	41012519	RWA88ZFTQ2IW	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Not What You Would Think	I do not think I have ever read a book where the title was so different from the actual text. If the title of the book would not have been at the top of every page I would had thought the publisher had made a mistake and inserted a different book between the covers. What I thought the book would detail were story after story of Osama Bin Laden type situations where the suspects benefited from US / CIA funding only to turn against the US. This is not what the book delivered. Instead the author provided a wonderful overview of American foreign policy as it relates to Asia with a focus on the last 15 years. The author takes the readers through a number of countries and details issues that show the US in a less then favorable light. This clear description of the issues made the book well worth the read. What most interested me was not that the US is acting in it's self interest, all countries do that, but the long list of extremely brash, crude and in your face ways the American government goes about it. In reading the book I just kept thinking there has to be a better way to protect and project American interests without stepping on everybody's toes.<br />The reason I would not give this book a five star rating is that at times the author would let slip an unsupported comment, basically his opinion, that struck me as going beyond truthful reporting and criticism to anti American bashing (a difficult tight rope to walk). He also gave it to all administrations, not just the Republicans, which tend to get the majority of this type of criticism. I also had one major annoyance, this author wins the \\"repeat it often\\" award for interjecting the book title within the text. At first you see that he is trying to tie in the book to his title, then it starts to get amusing, and finally it is just annoying. Toward the end of the book there were actual paragraphs that had \\"blowback\\" in them three or four times. It started to sound like a fraternity drinking game chant, over and overagain. Overall the book was a well-written and thoughtful look at American foreign policy as it relates to Asia.	2003-04-19
1153800:US	41012519	R3GYISQ63S91A3	0060194847	577422008	Big Red: Three Months On Board a Trident Nuclear Submarine	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Three Months is a Very Long Time	I should have expected the type of book this turned out to be. After all it is probably difficult to inject a lot of excitement in a book that details a boat who's main purpose is to avoid other ships and basically hide. All this during peace time. The book detailed this authors three-month trip on a nuclear missile submarine as it tooled around Atlantic. There were no exciting cold war cat and mouse games; no cool espionage inspired missions, or any massive equipment failures to review so the author stuck to the different workings of the boat. I found the real value in the time he spent talking about how certain tasks are done on the submarine and how they go about a typical tour. Yet this interesting detail can only go so far.<br />What I did not like is the amount of time the author devoted to the background of the crew. I may be a bit hard, but who cares about the personal life of every other sailor. I wanted to know how the boat operated what they did and maybe some good old sea stories. The book delivered on two of the three. I think the author could have made the book far more exciting if he would have forgotten the home life of the sailors and gave the reader some interesting stories from when the cool war was hot for these subs, surly there was one or two stories that could be told. Overall the book was average, if you are interested in how these massive subs work then you will find it interesting if not a bit slow. If you are looking for a true life Hunt for Red October then keep looking.	2003-04-18
1156087:US	41012519	R2RJ55Q50M3961	0060977337	407534724	Downsize This! Random Threats from an Unarmed American	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Very Liberal But Fun	This is the second book of his that I have read and it has proven to be as funny and smart as Stupid White Men.  The author is a die-hard liberal who for some reason thinks all of Americas troubles are wrapped up in corporate America.  The real joy of the book is his off the wall sense of humor and the crazy things he does to prove his point.  He not only writes an opinion about a topic but he figures out ways to test them in real life.   It makes for funny reading if not real deep.  The format is like his TV show with short quick chapters that might not prove his point but at least get it out.<br />My only complaint with the book is that his very real compassion for the average working man and his strong Democratic / liberal viewpoints tend to push common sense a little to the right.  Sure there are issues with big business but they are not the ones that create the environment and the rules - that falls to the politicians.  I think he should focus his anti big business and the decreasing standard of living for average working people on the politicians that have created the environment we are currently in.  I am also surprised at how much he dislikes Pat Buchanan given that Pat has put out a book basically talking about some of the same business related topics that this author is, and surprise hey agree on the problems.  Overall this is a nice funny book that does not make you work too hard.	2003-04-16
1158006:US	41012519	R3T5EAW52ND7YX	0833028138	423415889	Confronting Iraq: U.S. Policy and the Use of Force Since the Gulf War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Background For Today's Events	I thought this book had a great history of the events from the end of the first Gulf War to start of 2001.  The author's detail out each major event and UN resolution and what the Iraq and US did or did not do as a result.  It was interesting that many times, basically every time, there was a new resolution Iraq ended up first playing games and then backing down.   It almost seamed to be the behavior of a spoiled brat.  It was also very interesting where the authors can show that Iraq got close to having the UN stop the sanctions, but each time Saddam would do something dumb and the world would demand that the sanctions be put back in place.  What also comes through is the very difficult if almost impossible position the UN is in trying to enforce resolutions when the only power they have is rented / given to them by other countries.   What this has created is a situation that only resolutions heavily supported by the US get the US military backing thus have the teeth to be effective.<br />The one downside of the book was the chapter long discussion on what coercion meant the definition and how the word should correctly be used.  Nice info for a high school reader but it just slowed the book down for the rest of us.   Overall I liked the book, it was a bit dry and could have been a bit more detailed, but it was a nice review of the past ten years.   The real value is putting some facts behind what has been so talked about over the past year and what was the Iraqi position as it related to the UN resolutions.  If you have been interested in this situation over the past year then you will probably enjoy this book.	2003-04-15
1159455:US	41012519	R3VO6FJOGB6SXI	0316115185	690803164	The Great Betrayal: How American Sovereignty and Social Justice Are Being Sacrificed to..	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Bit Overstated	I have now read two of his campaign books that he used to spell out his agenda when he was running for President.  When I first heard about the books I wondered if I could learn anything form them or were they just him ranting on about his ultra conservative ways.   Well it turns out that he fills these books up with a great deal of American history on the subject at hand.   This book focuses on trade, ok not normally the most thrilling topic, but he does make it interesting.  The one concern I have is that is he telling me only the history that suits his basic point?   Well if you read the book I do not think this is the case, re represents both the policies that agree with his position and do not agree.  Sure he is bias, but overall I think reasonably fair.<br />His basic focus is that the standard of living based on the work the average American does is slipping due to the free trade push that has been happening the last 20 years in America.   His argument is that if a business can close its shop in the US and move it to a third world country for a fraction of the employee cost that the people left in the US not only lose a good job that is never coming back but the rest of us lose to because of the reduced tax revenue the government receives from the income tax that worker paid.  His solution to this problem is a goods tax on anything made outside the US.  A rather article position for a life long conservative.  He makes some good points, but I am not well enough versed in global economics to really make a case if he is correct or not.  Overall the book is interesting, but can at times be a bit dry.	2003-04-14
1161848:US	41012519	R2PKWJ2RIYCMZC	0805066691	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Not The History Taught in School	I have read some other books on the American Indians, but I must say that this is the most complete volume of their destruction that I have read.  Not only does it give you a destruction time line, but also it does it in a very well written and gripping fashion. The author writes as best he can from the Indians viewpoint and I think this helps the reader get a better grasp of the pain the Indians went through.  I knew it was a wonderfully written book by the fact that the pages just kept flowing, I never found myself slowed down or bored.  It is just page after page of the US government taking advantage and overrunning the American Indians.  The one constant it highlights is that the group with the most power can justify any crime, no matter how egregious in their name.<br />In the book the authors detail how a common phase came about in America, \\"The only good Indian is a dead Indian\\".  I have heard that statement before but it did not mean much to me.  Now after reading about the constant pressure the Americans put on the Indians and the disgusting about of violence, it has far more meaning.  When you read a book like this you just keep asking yourself how can people commit these crimes against women and children?  The author has also dug up a number of photos of the Indians he details which makes it even more power to see the people that were so aggressively destroyed.  A wonderful book that every American should read to make sure we know the real history of the country.	2003-04-11
1164295:US	41012519	R21K5OF4FZJF6I	0375757147	196227364	Shrub : The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A Short but Entertaining Book	A true fan of jr. will really hate this book.  The authors, in their smart and snappy way, detail the free ride our President had before he became the President.  I tend to like books that agree with me politically and this one does.  Not so much in overt preaching, but nice little comments that bring the true effect on people of the policies W pushed for in Texas.  At first I thought the tittle of the book was a justification of the small size, but it turned out to be full of details and did a good job of reviewing the subject mater.  The real focus of the book is George's time as Governor of Texas.   They do cover his pre Governor business deals, but not in the detail you can find in other books.  The focus of the book is on his time as Governor, his political views and how he managed the state.   <br />The author has been a fan of the Clinton's and what is interesting is that at some points she details W's life experiences with an eye to how the similar experiences in President Clinton's background were covered.  The book adds to the rumors or persistent comments that W is not a giant among scholars or is an in-depth policy wonk.  It would not be fair to categorize the book as all negative; the authors give W credit for his overall political abilities and the work he did on education.  It is also worth noting that unlike many attack books, these authors leave out many of the personal attack one liners that some would look for.  Overall it is a fun book to read that gives the reader a good idea of the polices Governor Bush put in place.  It also makes sense of the political climate and processes in Texas.	2003-04-09
1167431:US	41012519	R3S5HQJ4ROI2FU	1560254777	362804813	Iraq: In the Eye of the Storm	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Gathering Clouds	Here is a book that certainly has an anti war / anti Bush administration slant.  I bought the book because of the coverage it provided on what it is like actually living in Iraq today.   That section of the book was an eye opener.  No matter who is to blame for the current state of affairs, Saddam, the UN or the US, it is the average Joe of Iraq that is bearing the brunt of the sanctions.  We all know that the sanctions were met to hurt Iraq enough so that the population would either rise up and over throw Saddam or that Saddam would do anything and everything the UN / US told him to do.   Unfortunately, that did not happen.  What happened is that Saddam stayed in power, the world got its oil, the UN got funding for a never ending inspection program, and the average Iraq got the shaft.  Increased to third world standards of child and elderly death rates, massive reduction in public services (i.e. clean water, electric power), an almost eliminated education system, and an economy that is moving backwards daily.  It makes you wonder how other sanction programs have worked.<br />The rest of the book gives a brief history of Iraq and Saddam, basic info that can be found in many other sources.   The author then details out what would probably be considered a Middle Eastern view of the UN inspections program.   Is the detail wrong, judging from other sources I have read I do not think so.  For every issue there are always two sides and this author has tried to find the truth in the middle.  The only issue I would have is that he seamed to spend more time detailing the bad policies of US Presidents and not a lot of time talking about the horrible things Saddam has done.  Even if everything detailed in the book is true, because of this perceived one-sideness, it tends to leave the reader with the impression of a bias with the author.  Overall I did enjoy the book and learned a good deal.  I really liked the question and answer section in the back of the book.  It just seamed to me that the average pro Bush reader is going to believe the author is a shill for Saddam and denounce the full book and not just the sections of bias.	2003-04-07
1170127:US	41012519	R1H79OZ1B28RMS	0684862786	351943689	Truth To Tell: Tell It Early, Tell It All, Tell It Yourself: Notes from My White House Education	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Spin to Sell	Tell the truth, an interesting comment / policy coming from a political spin master.  I had no perceptions about this book when picking it, as I had not heard anything about it.  In my experience that usually means the book is rather run of the mill and dull.   Well it turned out that this book is absolutely nothing like that.   I really enjoyed the book.   It was well written, snappy and interesting.  He walks the reader through his time in the media relation's portion of the White House during the campaign finance issues and right before Monica.  He does a great job of explaining what his job entailed and making it very interesting.   <br />One thing that came to me as an extra was the details of the press and the way they work up a story.  It makes you look at the new in a different light.  The author detailed some of the phases to watch out for when reading a paper, which will make me trust political reporting even less.   The points he raises has been one that every arm chair political junky has been yelling at the TV for years.   Just tell the truth, it is always going to make it easier in the long run and eliminates the never-ending story about one little bit after another.  The book is also rather positive.   It is not a kiss and tell with nice bits of gossip. Overall I really enjoyed the book and would recommend it to anyone interested in the way the Clinton White House dealt with the media.	2003-04-04
1172312:US	41012519	R17EQ09BYKS5LE	1893956385	534430544	War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You To Know	Books	4	24	26	N	N	I Want to Know More	Scott Ritter has not created a reputation for being a friend to people on all sides of the current issue of the Iraq War.  If you support the war then chances are you do not like the author and would discount everything he says as untruthful pro Iraqi propaganda.  If you disagree with the Bush administration on the war then this book will further confirm your positions.  As I tend to agree with the later I found this book to be interesting and helpful.  The most important parts of the book were his comments on the supposed stockpiles of chemical weapons that Iraq has their shelf life, and the overall inspection process.  He also has a no spin way of describing the people in the Bush administration that have seemed to be pushing for this war for the past few years.    <br />If you on the fence on this topic then you can learn from this book but if your mind is made up in support I would not expect you would enjoy the book.   My only issue with the book was the scope or length of the book.  With such a large topic as this there are so many additional items to include getting the book up over 70 pages.   I do not want to sound like I am complaining just because of page numbers, but we could have been given a bit more info, for example how did the Iraqi military use chemical weapons in the past, what about the mustard gas that they used so much of during the Iran - Iraq war, more details on exactly how they went about hiding items and how the UN found them.   You get my point.   Overall the book was good and informative.	2003-04-03
1174474:US	41012519	R3N7OTWAT7AYYF	0833026674	944658123	Countering the New Terrorism	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting Pre 9-11 Book	This is a fairly recently produced document that could act as a primer for terrorists activities against the US. The books main thrust was how these new terrorist organization threaten the US Air Force and what the Air Force can do to protect itself. Do not worry about the book being to narrow, the authors take a much broader view at describing the terrorist threat and we are not bogged down by new and improved guard post theories. As the book was written before 9-11 there are some comments that are chilling when viewed with today's knowledge of recent history.<br />The book covers the basic organization structures of the terrorist organizations and how they operate. The book also gives a brief run down of who the current organizations that are active. It also talks about the trends in terrorism in both the type of groups and the type of attacks. The point the authors make is that there are fewer attacks, but they are increasing in their destructiveness. My only complaint was that the section talking about the organizational structures of the terrorist groups started to read like a management textbook, a little dry and dull. Overall the book is interesting with some very interesting comments viewed in a post 9-11 world. If you are looking for a quick brief of terrorists then this is a good place to start.	2003-04-01
1175765:US	41012519	R3LOO3E2013ZJI	0151153752	793255777	Came the Revolution: Argument in the Reagan Era	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Needed More Argument	Let me start off by saying that I was disappointed when I started reading this book.   What I was hoping for was a well written, constructed and documented book talking about the major policy points of the Reagan administration and the mature Democratic response to the issues.   Instead what the author has given the reader is basically a reprint of selected speeches, letters to supporters and op-ed pieces, all by year.  Given that I had the book and the author is a rather good writer I kept reading and it turned out I was the better for it.  <br />What I found was some very interesting, but short arguments against certain Reagan era policies mainly focused on the deficit and missile programs.  The arguments were not knew if you have read some on the Reagan years and the predictions are proving to be on the money as the years go by.  It was interesting, given the author's history and position, his view of the 80's and some of his arguments were not what I would have expected from a Democrat.  Given these few positives I finished the book but ended thinking that I gained very little from reading it.  If you are a huge fan of the Senator or just want a starter book on the arguments against some of the Reagan positions then you might enjoy the book, if you have read a number of books on the topic then you will be disappointed.	2003-03-31
1178658:US	41012519	R2A7M3240HV0EL	9992733799	480581179	Lessons Learned: The Iran Iraq War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well Documented Overview	For me this turned out to be a very nice overview of a war that I did not know much about.  But what really was interesting is the amount of time the authors spend on detailing the set up of the Iraqi military, especially now.  The text covered the development of the Iraqi military from 180,000 men at the start of the war to a force of 1 million at the end.   It also talks about the tactics used by both parties and a review of the major battles that took place.  One interesting view the authors had is that due to the major population differences between the two countries Iraq was concerned about tactics that would lose them large numbers of men whereas the only winning tactic Iran used was to through thousands of people to their death. <br />The book ends with an interesting review of the position Iraq was in financially after the war and the follow on reasons for the invasion into Kuwait.  My only complaint would be that the book was written originally as a report by the military and as such it does not have the extra bits of information that make good non fiction books great.  The writing was not dull, I was concerned that given it was written by soldiers that it would lack a certain bit of life, but that was not the case at all.  Overall I enjoyed the book.   I would have liked a bit more detail, but it gave me a good view of the war and some of the drivers for the next war and even the situation today.	2003-03-28
1180592:US	41012519	R2Y261M6VNYF33	0826210341	497594202	The Democrats: From Jefferson to Clinton (Series; 14)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Not Well Put Together	Let me say right up front that I was disappointed in this book.   Maybe I am too stuck in my ways, but when I pick up a history like this I was looking for an well-organized book.  I want each President with his own chapter, some details that are presented for each person i.e. year of terms, Vice President etc, and then a nice review of what took place while in office, the good and the bad.  The book just did not provide this; the presidents were grouped into chapters on what seemed to be on a basis as to total average chapter page length not by political or situational similarities.  The basic facts that I wanted were not there for every President, and if they were there you needed to hunt for them.  And if you are going to give me pictures then at least give me a picture of every President covered in the book, what we got were pictures of a few Presidents, a few campaign adds or jokes, and unbelievably to me pictures of city political bosses.  <br />The book was positive; I give the author that.   When there were negative issues they were glossed over if even mentioned.  I new based on the size of the book that it was not going to be an exhaustive history, but even this brief look at each President left me disappointed.  Also I kept thinking that the author wanted to write a history of the Democratic party and the publisher wanted a history of the Democratic Presidents and what came out was a compromise that did not serve either cause very well.  I would have much rather had a few more pages on FDR (then the 15 offered) and less about the Kansas City and Chicago political bosses and the third party candidates on some elections.   I do not want to be all-negative, there were a number of interesting facts and he hit the high notes on each man.  I was interested enough to finish the book.  I am just going to have to keep looking for a better effort at this topic.	2003-03-26
1182566:US	41012519	R117MUP8W0DOVH	0833027263	216231733	Political Violence and Stability in the States of the Northern Persian Gulf	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fast Read With Some Points of Interest	The good news about the book is that it just gets over 100 pages thus you can finish it in a few hours.  The first thing that struck me when starting to read this book was that it seamed like a report created for a government Agency that they decided to publish as a book.   That is not all bad, it just makes for somewhat flat and dry reading.   I really enjoyed the discussion on the current (as of 1999) political and economic issues of the Gulf States.  With the current focus on this part of the world it is interesting to read about some of the underling factors to how and why they act the way they do.  <br />The book was not the one source for your Middle East education, but it could be used as a primmer for Middle East reading.   It gives the basic facts that many other sources scan over or skip.  I especially liked the details on Iran, which proved to be very interesting.  The authors made Iran look to be more of a threat then Iraq, with all the trouble they have caused during the 90's via Hezbollah.  One hole in the document seams to me to be the complete lack of mention of Al Queda even though the test covers Non State sponsored security issues.  I think they were mentioned all of tow times even though the attacks on Americans in Africa and Saudi Arabia were discussed a number of times.  Overall the book is interesting but not the one and only book to read on the subject.	2003-03-24
1186367:US	41012519	R2G8V2EUGUYX78	0671892894	44177409	President Kennedy: Profile of Power	Books	5	15	17	N	N	On The Job Training	The author took an interesting view of the subject matter, instead of a dry history lecture the author tries to put the reader in the shoes of JFK and really show you what it was like to be him or at least with him in his presidency.  I learned a lot from this book, the unorganized and stumbling start to his presidency, his lack of attention and in depth understanding of what was going to happen with the bay of pigs and his relationship with Khrushshev were all very interesting and new for me.  I was also struck by how conservative this Democratic President was and his almost forced work on the Civil Rights issues.  The book gives you a real look at the three years he was in office, not an overly positive Camelot view and not a tabloid style gossip sheet only talking about women.   <br />What was so great is that the author was able to obtain so many actual conversations that JFK had with staff.  You could really get a sense of the man from the interactions that the author chose to detail.  Based on the bibliography and source notes, you can tell that the author spent a great deal of time on research and it shows in the quality of the book.  One last point is that I also gained a better understanding of LBJ and the differences in how much more liberal he was then JFK.  My only issue, and it is minor, is the end of the book did tend to drag a bit with the Vietnam War info.  I also would have liked a bit more detail on the Cuban missile crises, but the author did a good job given the overall time frame and space limitations the book offered.   The details of some of the letters being passed back and forth could have been left out of the book for me.  Overall the book was very good and interesting.    I do not think you need to be a political junkie to enjoy the book.	2003-03-21
1188444:US	41012519	R2YFT8JEK10FMB	0679743316	185475879	Samson Option: Israel's Nuclear Arsenal & American Foreign Policy	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Friends in Deed	The one thing this book points out is that no matter how close of a friend any one country claims to be with another, in the end all countries are out for themselves.  I would think that government officials would know this one ancient fact, it must be a staple of foreign policy.    Yet reading this book and the stumbling around the US government did you kind of wonder if maybe they were just putting their heads in the sand and hoping the issue would go away.  The book details out how Israel bought, lied and stole their way to the nuclear bomb, you got to give it to them they just kept going after the goal they set.   The path they took is well laid out by the author and you get a good taste for the political dealing between the US and Israel.  <br />My only complaint with the book is that the author could have spent just a bit more time clearly explaining the fears in Israel that drove them to get the bomb.  The author touches on this point but I would have liked more detail.   Then again it may be difficult to truly understand their mindset given the violent history they have had over the past century.  Overall I found the book to be interesting and well put together yet not overly exciting.  If you are interested in this part of history or even how US / Israel politics worked in the cold war then you will enjoy this book.  If you are looking for an exciting true life spy story then this is not the book for you.	2003-03-19
1190739:US	41012519	RU0IJHKNTIYLP	0679769781	831998889	We're Right, They're Wrong: A Handbook for Spirited Progressives	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Right on the Money	I would only suggest this book to a Democrat, because of the way the author deals with the subject is such a black and white fashion, it would aggravate a non Democrat to no end.   With that said if you are a Democrat hold on to your hat.    Basically the author approaches the book the same way he handles himself on Cross Fire, well maybe a bit more toned down, but still feisty and outspoken.  He basically takes on what was coming from the Republicans during the 94 - 96 time frame and shoots back with his version of the truth.   He includes some detail on the arguments and some footnotes, but he can not help himself in tossing in a few proclamations that are without back up.  That's what makes the book fun to read. <br />With such a short book it will not give you an in depth look at any one issue or program talked about.  The author states the book is help for he reader to argue points with friends and given that goal, the depth is really not there.   This was the only thing that really disappointed me, I think the author could have taken more time to develop some of his / Democratic ideas instead of the gloss over many of them received.   The most helpful thing he put in the book were a nice list of government programs that help the average Joe.   It was nice to see such a long list.  Basically the book is entertainment and not a deep study of any one issue.  It is fun to read and moves quickly.   If you are interested in the author or just a Democrat that likes to read something a bit in your face then you will enjoy this book.	2003-03-17
1194982:US	41012519	R1092W9P2LZI7W	0415930316	603424138	No Way to Pick A President: How Money and Hired Guns Have Debased American Elections	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Why Did We Not Listen to Him Before 2000	Based on the titles of his other books it looks like some of the chapters of this one were plucked right out of his other work.  Oh well, the book was good with interesting comments and some common sense points being brought up.  The author basically takes the reader through all the issues he thinks are causing problems with the current presidential election process.  From the fund raising process, the primaries and the Electoral College.  The last item being the most interesting to read after the 2000 elections as the book was written in 1999 and it hit on the problems with the Electoral College.  What was pleasing to me is that the author did not just provide examples from the last few elections but dug into history to bring out examples that detailed that the state we are in has been progressing this way for years.<br />I was also pleased to find that I could not detect a major bias one way or the other.  His comments seemed to take on both parties and were grounded in common sense and fair play.  I was also amused by the section on picking the Vice President.  He really let Bush 1's VP Dan Q. have it.  The author's insight comes from his many years in the political reporting field and makes the book an enjoyable read for political junkies everywhere.  I found I enjoyed this book far more then Drew's \\"What went wrong\\" which covered many of the same topics, but was not as well written.  Overall the book was entertaining and offered some interesting insights.  Given the topic it may be best suited for political junkies.	2003-03-13
1199324:US	41012519	R2U5ES8H20XUHY	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	2	37	59	N	N	The Authors Certainly Do	I saw this book in the bookstore and the title was the only reason I picked it up.   I was hoping to find a different point of view of how Americans are perceived in the rest of the world and I thought this book would give me that.   The authors start out the book by stating that some of the views they were going to document would be unsettling to an American reader, but that was what I was looking for.  I wanted some hard facts and good, well thought out arguments.  To the authors credit they started out the book this way, but it quickly started to deteriorate.  They started to document issues that can only be minor no matter where you are from.  The authors really dropped into a name-calling forget the facts type of diatribe by the end of the book.  <br />Overall I was disappointed with the book.  I wanted a new insight into the views people from other parts of the world have on Americans.   This book focused on TV and Movie plots and I have to think that the worlds population is a little smarter then to completely form a negative opinion (i.e. hatred) of the U.S. based solely on reruns of Bay Watch.	2003-03-10
1202978:US	41012519	R3LN6P5TIUCHFL	0684826631	526094708	Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership, Nixon to Clinton	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Though Shaded Glasses At Times	I found this book to be very well written and thought out.   The author, who could have really cashed in on the book by spelling out even warmed over gossip and tall tails did not.  He took the high road and tried to dissect the leadership characteristics of the four Presidents he worked for.  He also added some interesting insights from his own work and I always wanted more of his experiences.   I found that I enjoyed the sections on Nixon and Clinton the most.  He was as complimentary as he was negative, depending on the topic.  I found his views were very balanced and based on definable facts, not just off the cuff comments.    To be fair in this review, the section on Ford was much like the Ford Presidency, everything interesting had to do with Nixon.<br />If I had one issue with the book it was that the author did seem to go easy on Reagan.  The author holds Reagan in very high esteem and that comes through on the writing.   It is a good thing Reagan never went swimming or this author would have had to detail a walking on the water episode.  The reason I was disappointed was that for the other three Presidents, the authors sharp eye cut through the fluff and got right to the mistakes, weaknesses and strengths.  I would like the author to come out with a memoir of his time but maybe he is waiting for the next President to call him up for duty before he pens it.   Overall the book was good, interesting and easy to read.	2003-03-07
1213407:US	41012519	R13V5LGNULJ9ZY	0425149579	114370157	Fighter Wing: A Guided Tour of an Airforce Combat Wing (Tom Clancy's Military Referenc)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not a Smooth Landing	If you have read any of the other books in the series then you know what to expect with this one. The book follows the familiar format, it details out the machinery used, the troops, the division make up of the topic in the armed forces, a few interviews and it ends with some fictionalized short stories describing the expected types of encounters this area would face in the future. All in all a basic book on a fighter wing that gives you all the basics. The Clancy style of writing, lots of facts and plodding movement work well in this type of book given that you buy it to learn about the subject. <BR>Overall it is a good effort and if you have been happy with the other books in the series you will enjoy this one. My only complaints were that there did not seam to be enough photos of the equipment for me. Sure they had all the main items, but I wanted a picture of every jet covered in the book. I also would have liked to have seen a comparison of the other counties main combat fighters - something he did with his Submarine and Aircraft Carrier books. I was also disappointed in that he did not cover all the Air Force equipment, missing were the A10 and B52 to name a few.  And one last little complaint - what was with his ending every chapter with some junior high school type rah-rah cheer. We are talking about the military; do we need this type of comic book love-fest mentality?	2003-02-27
1216439:US	41012519	RF3PWOF58791E	0943235057	307542132	George Bush the Unauthorized Biography (Illus)	Books	1	46	176	N	N	Fiction at its Worst	I always like to read books that get in a few digs at republicans or any President for that matter.   Picking this book up I thought that it would be a nice set of facts and some interesting bits about Bush 1's life.  What I got was a book so full of hate for the former President that about 5 pages into the book I started to question almost every comment and section.  The authors start with claiming he was a Nazi supporter, then lead a campaign to sterilize poor kids, was involved in the Bay of Pigs, the Kennedy assassination and Watergate.  How he had the time and energy to be involved in Iran / Contra is beyond me.  It was not enough to claim Bush was involved in these items, the authors never missed an opportunity to get in nasty comments.  The full range of derogatory adjectives was used in the book; the authors really gave their thesaurus a work out.  Each time Bush's name came up it was accompanied by an unfounded or unsubstantiated dig for example \\"Bush had never seen an opportunity for genocide he did not like.\\"<br />Because of the level of hatred and bile in the book, any real negative or scandalous items are lost in the barrage of charges.  Let me say again that I am no big fan of the President Bush, but after reading this attack book I find myself thinking the guy is getting a bad rap.  This nastiness would have made the anti Clinton book authors proud at the level of venom.  I kept reading just to see what was next, what could the authors blame on Bush next, the sinking of the Titanic, the floods of 1993?  Overall if you are looking for a fair book shy away from this one.  If you hate the first Bush then this book will make you smile all day long.	2003-02-24
1221199:US	41012519	R1SR8Z21ZHCEFT	1586481304	765097948	HOW DID THIS HAPPEN? Terrorism and the New War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Why Did it Not Happen Sooner	Although this book was a rush job right after the 9-11 attacks it does cover some very interesting issues and points of view.   The book has essays from a number of foreign policy and terrorism experts on topics ranging from the CIA efforts in Afghanistan, the cultural environment in the Middle East, airport security, bio-weapons and the ability of the US armed forces to handle this new threat.  The topics covered are very interesting and gives the reader and good overview of the different issues involved in this complicated foreign policy and security issue.  The essays are also minus most of the emotion that many other books on the 9-11 attacks have.  This is probably due to the topics of the essays and the limited space each author was given.  The editors also did a good job of arranging the essays so that the book had a good flow and the items lead into one another.<br />Overall my only real complaint with the book is that there were a few errors here and there, but they are due to the quick publishing date of the book and do not take away much from the points.   Also reading a book with a new author per chapter you do not have a consistent writing style but the editors did a good job in that the wide range of authors is not a detriment to the flow of the book.   I assumption is that the test of some was edited with a heavy hand to provide the consistent writing style.  Overall the book is an interesting look at the causes of the 9-11 attacks and well worth reading.	2003-02-20
1225255:US	41012519	R4VIRLF39O56J	1580630537	379184882	Behind the Oval Office: Getting Reelected Against All Odds	Books	5	14	16	N	N	How To Share an Ego	I was not expecting the author's detailed views on President Clinton's personality.  I was assuming I was going to get a 350 page \\"I am the Greatest\\" ego stroking puff piece.  I was actually prepared to dislike this book given the author's conservative leanings and now permanent pundit position on FOX, but as it is the inside book covering how Clinton turned around his numbers in 94-95, I felt it was worth getting through.   It turns out I was wrong.  The book was very well written and interesting.  The author shared a number of insights into how the Clinton White House worked and what was going on in 94 - 95.  <br />The author also did not have the overblown ego that I was expecting to encounter; as a matter of fact he spent a good deal of time apologizing for his famous fall from grace.  He was also rather kind to some of the people he worked with (or battled with) in the White House.  As a matter of fact some of the other insider books on the Clinton years have not been this kind to Dick Morris.   Maybe that is the danger of being one of the first out of the gate with your memoir, you can not get back at others.  Overall I found the book very good.   It was detailed and fun to read.  The comments are well thought out and provide an interesting view into how politics works now days.  Ok, his ego does pop up from time to time, but it is not so bad that it takes away from the overall book.  Hey at this level they all have healthily egos.  I would recommend that it be one of the books to read on the Clinton years.	2003-02-17
1230318:US	41012519	R1T7BAR2EWAQZC	0671671561	875315522	Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944	Books	3	29	40	N	N	Not Quite All The Way Across	Stephen Ambrose is one of those authors that I would give anything he wrote a chance.  In the past I have not been disappointed with his work.  That positive track record came to an end with this book. To be fair this book was written a number of years ago and before his best World War 2 works - D-Day and Citizen Soldiers.  This book also covers an event that was performed by UK soldiers and the author's real strength has been with American forces.  With those two books in my mind I grabbed this book hoping for the same detailed account of this particular event. <br />Unfortunately for me the detail level was just not there.  He briefly touched on the training and lead up to the event but not in the kind of detail that would really give me some insight into the men.  He covered the assault on the bridge, but his coverage of the importance of the bridge to the overall D-Day effort and the German response was a bit lacking.  And finally he also touched on what happened to the group for the rest of the war but in such a general way that it left me wanting more and frustrated at the extremely brief overview.   I do not want to come off too harsh, overall this is an interesting and easy to read book that gives the reader a better then average coverage of the event.  I was just thinking it would be better based on the author's track record.	2003-02-13
1234257:US	41012519	R1BYG2EPZYVB8I	0671871579	213854898	America: Who Really Pays the Taxes?	Books	4	8	10	N	N	More Like Who Does Not Pay Taxes	I had a concern coming into this book that is was going to be pages of dull tax code jargon that kill any reading joy I might find in a book that bashes politicians.  Luckily the authors wrote the book for the average Joe and left out the tax code.  The basic premise of he book is that there is a special set of rules that the rich have had written into the tax code so that they do not pay the stated rates on the progressive tax system in the USA.  This should not surprise most of us as it is the rich and corporations that spend the money with the politicians to get them elected, thus the back scratching has its fingers in the tax code.  Now days it is hard to bring this charge up without all the Class Warfare bias charges being tossed at you and this book is probably no exception.  To me the authors did not seam to really be that bias, just real mad.       <br />As an average Joe many parts of the book did make me a bit mad, just on the basic fairness point of view.  They are good tidbits to have handy next time you are in a discussion with a person that pulls out the rich already pay most of the taxes lines.  With that said I did feel that the authors might have been reaching on some of thier complaints about corporations.  Like most things it is a matter of degrees and in some parts I thought they went one or two steps over the line.  My biggest complaint of the book was the number of person quote examples they used.   It was nice to see two or three comments from some Senators on this or that tax bill, but the authors always seemed to use 10  15.  It was too much, we all know the politicians all read from the same talking points memos so to spell it out in a book using examples was overkill.  Overall the book was interesting but not earth shattering.	2003-02-10
1237934:US	41012519	R2HD6KF8D5N8IJ	0684803011	923748360	The Nightingale's Song	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Interesting View of Iran / Contra	The book is basically the life story of five U.S. Naval Academy graduates that went on to the Vietnam War and to play a part in the Iran / Contra mess.  The book is split into three parts, Academy and War, post war to the Regan administration and then the Iran / Contra scandal.  Of the three areas the most interesting to me were the war and Iran / Contra sections.  The areas covering their personal lives and late 70's was less interesting, even a bit slow.  The author also spent time looking at the personalities of the five and how their Academy and War experiences shaped the actions they took during the Reagan administration.  I found the detail of McCain, North, and McFarlane the most interesting.  I have read a number of books on the Reagan administration and Iran / Contra and this was the first book that dissected the actions of the participants and tried to explain why they did what they did.  <br />In my opinion the author takes a hard look at both Reagan and the five subjects and comes away with some less then faltering comments, especially about North and Reagan.  Given these, what I think are honest comments, the true fan of either of the two men many find the book a bit aggravating.  I thought the comments in question made since and many have been mirrored in other books on the topic.  Overall this was an interesting and insightful book that I enjoyed reading.  My only complaint is that coverage of the men's married life.  I know the to fully understand a person you need to look at this section of their life, but I found these areas a bit dull and they did not help me a great deal.	2003-02-06
1242080:US	41012519	R35BRA1OTMNABT	0070269513	506603693	Palace politics: An inside account of the Ford years	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Falling Down With Ford	To read a book about the Ford Administration today you are either a die-hard political junky or a relative of someone who worked there. I have no such relatives. The book is actually just like the Ford administration, the most interesting parts all deal with Nixon, whether it is his late night file get away, the pardon or the staff that just did not quite understand that Nixon was not still running the show, these were the parts of the book that had the most weight. Reading the book I kept hoping that the author would provide some facts that would eliminate my view that Ford was lucky to stumble through 3 years and the USA was lucky nothing serious happened on his watch. It just seemed like Ford had short timers syndrome, just riding out his term so that he could collect his pension and get good tee times. <br />And by the way, is there any book that Al Haig shows up in that he is not roundly bashed, did no one like this guy? One of the interesting parts of the book is the staff that Ford had, it could be called the gangs all here. There is Bush 1, Rumsfeld, Cheney, Scowcroft, Greenspan, Gergen, Buchanan and Speaks. This bunch must travel in a pack from one administration to the next. It is a credit to the author that he was able to make the most politically boring time in recent American history somewhat enjoyable and interesting. Although many of the items I found interesting had to do with the old Nixon guard still causing trouble. Overall the book is probably more of an interest to someone interested in the Nixon administration more then Ford.	2003-02-03
1246421:US	41012519	R7MU8ZLSNGK9V	061318114X	733405472	Guns, Germs, And Steel: The Fates Of Human Societies (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Detailed, Interesting but Repetitive	I always have a high expectation when reading a book that has won the Pulitzer Prize.  For better or worse, I am expecting a stay up all night, can't put down type of book.  Well I have to admit that this book did not fulfill this expectation.  To put my review in context I have an interest in general history but not so much in science.  That probably explains why at times I felt this book dragged or just buried me is too much detail.  The author was making a case for his theory, therefore, he had to spell out the many examples for his work to be accepted.  It is just that for a general reader it was a bit much.<br />I must say that the book is full of interesting historical facts and stories.  I found my self saying, \\"so that's what happened\\" a number of times.   The author also lays out his theory very well and I found myself agreeing with it. The author does write in a user-friendly way.  My one complaint with the history is that I felt he was a little too kind to the European explores and following armies that decimated the populations of the Americas.   It was just that for me, this subject has a marginal interest therefore, the massive amounts of detail slowed me down.  If you fall into the same category as myself then make sure you put aside a good amount of time for he book.	2003-01-30
1256722:US	41012519	R2JQZOXLA490ZI	B000067JZH	400910345	How to Overthrow the Government	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Dont Get All Huffy	When I pick up a book by a political columnist I expected to read a longer version of their columns. I like these authors' columns, therefore, I was hoping for basically a 300-page column of new material. For the first third of the book this is exactly what I got. She was smart, sassy, and indignant, all the things that make her column worth reading. The book moved as fast as a book can. Unfortunately, she turned into a social working crusader in the middle of the book talking about children and anti-depressants, volunteer groups and consumer debt levels. I felt this section dragged, not so much because of a drop off in the writing, it was just not want I wanted, I prefer preaching to take place on Sundays. The last section of the book returned to the spit and vinegar the author is known for. <br />With that one complaint aside she does offer up the wit and one liners that made her semi famous. She goes after them all, Republicans, Democrats and anybody else the falls into her crosshairs. Another interesting bit was that she might have been the first one on the Trent Lott racial problems detailing out some of his issues before the latest flair up. Overall the book is an interesting and humorous book designed to offer up some entertainment and get you to think a bit. As long as you approach it with this understanding you should be entertained.	2003-01-22
1259492:US	41012519	R11HCFWDBF3ULV	0525946799	49722860	Dangerous Waters: Modern Piracy and Terror on the High Seas	Books	3	10	13	N	N	In Too Deep	This book starts out like a house on fire, interesting and for me something new.   Unfortunately the author could not keep up the pace of excitement and the middle of the book drags a bit.   The author takes the reader through the world of modern day pirates or at least the ones in Asia that attack large oil tankers.   The author does tell us this type of activity takes place all over the world and to all different types of ships but the book only focuses on oil tankers in Asia.  He does a good job of telling us the overall issues like who is doing it, why and where, but I think he fell down on the excitement of the actual events.<br />The author just did not hold my attention with the different dangers and types of highjacking.  I think he really could have made the book more exciting by focusing more on many different events instead of a 10 day trip on an oil tanker talking about on deck rail patrols and the food in the mess.  I do not want to sound too negative; the book was overall entertaining and interesting.    I would suggest it if you are interested in the subject.   It just could have been more fun and exciting.	2003-01-20
1265336:US	41012519	R1WUXV3UPP4EZ2	0684857154	363415537	Spin Cycle: How the White House and the Media Manipulate the News (Revised and Updated)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Not the Fluff Cycle	Being a fan of President Clinton I always read a book on his administration with a bit of a bias view.  At times this book upset me and other times I was shouting \\"right on\\", given these duel responses I have come to the conclusion that, no matter that I did not agree with a number of items, the book is an overall fair look at the Clinton scandal fest. I thought the author did a great job in weaving together the pertinent facts about each of the scandals / issues with the response from the White House.  I was very interested in the inside info on how the White House tried to either spin or deflect each of the stories.  The author had a great deal of direct quotes of conversations, which really made the book come alive.  The information about the White House briefing is worth the price of the book alone.  You can actually see this type of activity at work today with the current briefings that are televised.   <br />I also was interested in the additional comments on the way that the Clinton's themselves viewed the media and their knee jerk reaction to clam up at every question.  You almost got the feeling that if the Clinton's would have always listened to the media people on their staffs that some of the overall negative and nasty press they received may have been decreased to some degree.    The last bit of the book that surprised me was the, at times, rude, disrespectful and almost violent way the media and the White House staff dealt with each other. You just got to wonder what the White House staff was thinking to beat up on the people with the loudest voice in the country.  My only complaint was that the book ended too soon, missing the Super Bowl of the spin, the Starr Report and the impeachment.   It would have been nice for the author to have held out a year or so for the full story in the paperback.  Overall I found this book well written, very interesting and quite enjoyable.  It is required reading for anyone that is interested in the Clinton years or themedia.	2003-01-16
1268360:US	41012519	R3CTF3KZ27Q8MH	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Woodward Has Done Better	The problem I find with any book that I am really excited to read is that they always seems to let me down a bit.   This was the case with this book.  Woodward covers the first section of the war on terror after 9-11 up to the end of the year.  You get all the standard Woodward stuff, great quotes, good set up and overall solid reporting.  I am always surprised that he can get such access, but I guess he is going to write the book regardless so if you want your story in the book you need to participate.  The problem I had with the book is that when covering such important, once in lifetime events it is difficult to capture the same level of intensity and drama in a book that covers the political and governmental action.  <br />What interested me the most or concerned me the most is that Woodward reports that a number of people within the inter Bush group were looking for ways to go after Iraq, even on 9-12.  This looked to me to be one of the most reveling things about the book.  As a Monday morning quarterback maybe the action in Afghanistan could have been handled a little better i.e. get Osama, if so many people in the inter circle were not trying to figure out how to go after Iraq.  The details of the CIA action were very interesting and I wish he had focused more on that part of the story.  I was also let with wanting to know more on the activity in Afghanistan, but I guess I will have to wait for other books on the topic.  Overall I found the book interesting and enjoyable, it just seemed to lack some of the pop or zing that I was looking for, maybe Woodward rushed it out the door.	2003-01-13
1274780:US	41012519	R3O36HOLHHRWMU	0609610007	291060622	A Time to Die: The Untold Story of the Kursk Tragedy	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Great Details - Full Story	I was a little concerned when I bought this book that it would be a script for a made for TV cheesy drama with nothing but irony dripping dialog and stories of love affairs.  Thank goodness it turned out that there was none of that drama queen stuff.   This is a book written like an investigative report.   The author pulled together just a ton of details that I had not seen before in the media and laid out the full disaster in a tight chronological fashion.   It is a very interesting story and a sad one at that given the opportunities that were wasted that could have rescued the trapped men.   The book also speaks volumes about the current state of affairs of the Russian military or at least the navy.  <br />If pressed the only complaint I would have is that the author did not also cover the salvage operation.  He does a great job with the events leading up to the sinking, the actual event and the rescue operation.  He then skips the salvage to go to the results of the dry dock investigation of the salvaged boat.  Maybe he is going to put out a second book on the salvage operation.   Overall this was a great book that read very fast.   If you are interested in this event then you will just tear through this book in no time.	2003-01-09
1280095:US	41012519	R3TFXBQJQL4MB	1586480278	941974007	Washington	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What a Town	Reading this book make you feel like you were partaking in a nice little gossipy talk over coffee with a close friend.  The author had a wonderful writing style that kept me interested even during sections that I normally would have skipped.  I really did not expect the type of book this turned out to be, the author covers her impressions of the type of people that make it to elected government office and what they have to do to stay there.   She also covers her thoughts on the people that make their living covering or helping these elected officials.   It makes for funny and insightful reading.<br />The only thing I would have liked were more names of the people she covered.   She does a classy job of covering nasty little items, but leaving out names or even strong hints as to who she is talking about.   Overall this is an interesting book that covers her impressions and time in Washington.  It is not a dry year by year run down of major events, but her impressions of the people.  For example she spends time talking about the similarities between Washington and a clicky high school with the popular kids living on perception over substance.   If you are interested in Washington and the people that make it run then you will enjoy this funny, witty book.	2003-01-05
1282688:US	41012519	R1URACY2WUVUR7	006017448X	496662766	The Last Face You'll Ever See: The Private Life of the American Death Penalty	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not The Last Book to Read on The Subject	It is my opinion that it is very difficult to write an unbiased account of the death penalty just because it is one of those divisive issues that tends to galvanize ones opinion firmly on one side of the issue or the other.  It is also difficult in that each reader is going to have a bias that will be read into the text.  With that said I do give this author credit in that for the most part he was telling a story and trying to have it be a just the facts type of reporting with no of his bias leaking in.   Basically what you have is the story of a few of the guards and executioners at one prison in the south and 3 executions they performed over the 1980's.  It makes for average reading given that the guards profiled have completely dull and pay check to pay check lives.  The most interesting thing any of them do is their duties with the death penalty.  <br />So the author is telling us the story of some uneducated, rather low paid men who's biggest claim to fame and achievement in life is to work at a job where every few years they help to kill a prisoner.  I was only surprised there were not more heath problems, drug abuse and divorce detailed.  Overall I thought the book was a bit bland, there is only so many pages of how horrible these guys lives are that the reader can stay interested in.  Sure the details of the executions are interesting in a dark way, but that is not enough to make the book a winner.  I would keep searching for another  title to read on the subject.	2003-01-03
1285576:US	41012519	R1KEWLFU1HVY8C	0394559541	279204427	The Politics of Rich and Poor: Wealth and the American Electorate in the Reagan Aftermath	Books	2	12	33	N	N	A Example of Academics Overshadowing Message	I was excited to find this book based on the tittle and book description, mainly because I felt I was going to get a book of facts to bolster my already formed opinions.  Well the book did provide facts, lots of facts sometimes not in the best order, but facts none the less.   What the author and publisher failed to realize is that in the method the book was written the average reader would find it almost impossible to plod through the text.  I had a college statistics professor that was Asian with a very strong accent, and the ability to stand at the front of the room and drone on and on without every moving his body or using the black board (an interesting feat in a math class) that was more lively then this book.   I am assuming that even economics professors aged 65 and over would think this book to be dry and dull.  <br />The net effect of the bone dry text and the overwhelming amount of facts, charts and lists of numbers is that a book I was excited to read turned out to be a downright pain to get through.   It turned into a labor of love or some sick need to finish the book that finally got me through to the end.   I feel like I deserved some medal for completing this thing.   Overall the facts are interesting (in small doses) but the written was one that would bore the dead.	2003-01-01
1286036:US	41012519	R2KSOQKMMYE8F9	0786869003	129957821	The Cell: Inside the 9/11 Plot, and Why the FBI and CIA Failed to Stop It	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Start of the Story	What a great book this turned out to be.  The authors take you through the many headed investigation into the Osama / 1st WTC bombing events that lead up to the 9-11 attack.  The authors cover all the events that lead up to 9-11 and how the separate events and people lead to Osama and his Al Qaeda group.   I found the details on what the Clinton administration tried to do and the reasons they did not arrest Oasma before the Cole bombing enlightening.    It makes for some very interesting reading and raises some questions as to the power / competence of the American intelligence machine namely the FBI and CIA.<br />Like many people I have read a good deal on this topic and seen a number of TV shows, but this book pulled a number of different stories and facts together and put them in a nice order to make the reader really see how they all fit together.    The authors were able to weave together a number of different story lines in a method that was very easy to grasp the big picture.    Overall a wonderful effort that made the book read fast.    I was concerned that with three authors the reader would get s somewhat disjointed and jumpy book with three different styles. The editor must have played a big role because the writing comes off in one voice and is very smooth.	2003-01-01
1286126:US	41012519	R343RK265JEJ3F	0679446605	532521847	Trail Fever: Spin Doctors, Rented Strangers, Thumb Wrestlers, Toe Suckers, grizzly Bears, and  Other Creatures on the Road to the White House	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Could Not Stop Laughing	I have read the authors other two books and found them average at best.  I tried this book because of the good customer reviews here and that it was very inexpensive used.   What a side splitting, could not put down book this turned out to be.  His wit hit high form with this book, I really fell in love with his descriptions of the race and candidates.  Funny and smart comments kept coming at the reader almost if a comedy team were working on the book instead of one writer.   OK the book is not the dry step by step look at the campaign that you would get with some other authors but that is part of the fun.    If you read this book with say The Choice by Woodward, you get a great look at the election process and the probably would gain a better understanding of American politics.<br />My only gripe would be that he did not spend as much time on the Democrats as he did on the Republicans, but I understand that the Republicans really had the race and the characters for the book.  I guess I just wanted more being the greedy person I am.    This was a funny book and just keeps moving the whole time you are reading it.  A great lighter book to read if you are interested in politics.	2003-01-01
1287961:US	41012519	RG923TGCJY4GV	0684832933	522791625	Tell Newt to Shut Up: Prize-Winning Washington Post Journalists Reveal How Reality Gagged the Gingrich Revolution	Books	4	2	7	N	N	More Newt Needed	I never really liked Newt and I was hoping this book was going to be 200 pages of more reasons to dislike him or at the least more facts to sustain my current dislike of his politics.   The tittle sure said to me that that was the focus of the book, unfortunately for me that was not what the book turned out to be.   The authors decided to review 1995 and the battles between Newt and the rest of the world on policy.   It was interesting and well written but the book Showdown by Drew did a much better job of covering the period of time.   <br />With such a campy title I was looking for a lot of wit and humor and that really was not the strong point of the book.   Overall the book lays out the facts in an easy to read way and it is well written, it just did not have the detail to make it the one complete record or the story and it did not have the sharp wit to make it satire.	2002-12-30
1291237:US	41012519	R2ZP8RXRWYJQU3	0312314655	769926543	Live from Baghdad: Making Journalism History Behind the Lines	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Dull from Baghdad	I found this book and thought it would be interesting to see what happened to the press during the war.   Unfortunately for me all this author talked about was bureaucratic problems and drinking and smoking.   I kept reading thinking that once the war started the book would pick up and at page 275 the war started but the book remained dull.   I am assuming that the author is a much better TV producer then author or there is no way he would have a job with CNN.<br />The book was dull, there is no way around it.   The author kept focusing on his drinking and the issues with this ministry and that ministry - not the most exciting.   I wanted more detail on what it was like in Baghdad leading up to and during the war - - all the author gave us was what it was like for him in his hotel.    Overall I would skip the book and watch the movie.	2002-12-28
1293572:US	41012519	RH15V6JL3PEUO	0671796488	796728168	Hell of a Ride: Backstage at the White House Follies 1989-1993	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Heck of a Book	Finding books about the first Bush Presidency is not that easy so when I came upon this one I gave it a shot.  I knew that the author is a conservative columnist so I was expecting a rather right leaning account, but I was wrong.  Either Bush put the authors wife in jail, took away his kids or killed his dog because the level of dislike he has from all things Bush is really something.  Reading this book was like watching a boxing match were one guy just keeps getting hit, the author kept the zingers coming from everything from domestic policy issues to haircuts.   <br />The book is not a all encompassing overview of the Bush years.  It is an interesting and well written account of an inside the administration view from that second or third tear seats.   The author found smart and funny comments on all topics and never were there dull spots in the book.  Overall the book is great, my only complaint was that it was not longer.	2002-12-26
1295898:US	41012519	R354I2RJ0D6I0	0865475822	385567614	American Ground: Unbuilding the World Trade Center	Books	4	18	22	N	N	Controversial View of the Fire Department	What an interesting book this turned out to be. The author takes the reader through the rescue, recovery and clean up effort at the World Trade Center after the 9-11 attacks. I tend to like a book with a lot of facts and that is exactly what this book delivered. Interesting tid bits that an account based only on the attack or rescue just would not cover. He goes in depth into all aspects of the clean up from how the material was taken off the pile, transport to a landfill, and the sorting of the material at the landfill. The review of the management of the process was also well written. It takes a good author to make some of these mundane issues exciting and this author did it.<br />I think the most unexpected part of the book for me was the hard look he took at the actions of the firefighters during the clean up. It was not flattering and for the most part the negative items he reports are not very well known. As you read other reviews this particular item appears to elicit the most emotion. Overall this was a very interesting book. The detail was there and it was well written. My only complaint would be that it was only 200 pages - I would have liked even more detail.	2002-12-23
1299478:US	41012519	RBTLNST4HMOE4	0446525286	243553329	Anything Goes!: What I've Learned from Pundits, Politicians, and Presidents	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Disapointed	This book reminded me of a collage term paper being done at the last minute when you increase the font size and margins to try and stretch the meager text to the length requirement.  I have never been a big fan of his interview show, but I was hoping given the amount of time he has been at it, he would have some interesting \\"during the break\\" type of stories from his guests.  It turned out that this was not the case.  <br />I would like to say that I enjoyed this book or at least found parts interesting or well written, but that would not be honest.  I had to keep reading given it was the only book I had on a 9 hour flight.  How can someone that has interviewed so many interesting and influential people over the years have this little to say?   Thank goodness for the professional writer he hired or who knows if we would have even had complete sentences to read.    Overall the book was dull, no insights and barely anything interesting.	2002-12-19
1303043:US	41012519	R14RQ5J1H2PLQI	0802117236	318954194	The Lion's Grave: Dispatches from Afghanistan	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Book With Some Hubris	This was kind of a spooky book.   The added e-mail notes at the start of each chapter gave you a real since of what it must have been like for the reporters in Afghanistan and their support staffs back in the real world.    The book is basically the author's description of his four months in the country right after 9-11.   The writing is so descriptive that it almost reads like a novel.   The stuff he has to go through just to get the story out is something else.   Also the level of danger for the reports, not even close to the front line, would make the average person question the line of work they chose.<br />The book was not a full description of what was going on in the whole country or the war effort, just the magazine article like description of his travels and reporting.   To be fair, the book could have used a bit of this detail as an extra narrative to really make the reader understand what the author is going through in the context of the whole country.  One other small point, the author details a few instances where he lets some Afghan soldiers have a piece of his mind with them holding loaded weapons.   In a country that has not seen any rule of law for 25 years and has basically been the worlds largest OK Corral shoot up, it seamed a little too Rambo like for the unarmed author to be insulting 20 year old thugs with automatic weapons in the middle of no where.  Overall the book was very entertaining and interesting.   If you are interested in this part of the world then you could do worse.	2002-12-16
1303415:US	41012519	RTAT0B6UEP6F5	0195116925	258830478	The Paradoxes of the American Presidency	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Surprisingly Good	What an informative and insightful book this turned out to be.  I found it on a sale table and gave it a try.  I was concerned that the book was nothing more then a tenured professor's attempt at fulfilling his publishing requirements, it turns out that this concern not needed.   The book takes the reader through most of the major issues that effect the President in his duties and it does it in an easy to read and understandable format.  What is very interesting is that they present the \\"paradoxes\\" that the public has pushed the Presidents into the corner on.  What we the public what and expects has shaped the office as much as the past office holders.  <br />The authors also look at some stated ways of improving the Presidency and what their opinions are on the methods - very interesting.  To bring the ideas and comments more alive they fill the book up with a large number of examples of which a good 70 % relate to the last 10 Presidents.  There are also two sections that, given the past years, are even more interesting - Vice Presidents moving to the lead role and impeachment.   Overall this was a very good and interesting book.  This is the kind of book that both entertains and teaches the reader something in the process.	2002-12-16
1306475:US	41012519	R2RBK6RRFKPEOD	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	4	3	5	N	N	His Personality Comes Through	When I picked this book up I knew the same amount about his form of cancer and international bike racing - that is to say nothing.   I became interested in him after he recently won his 4th Tour de France.  I was thinking the book would be one of those super positive books that came close to a self-help text.  I was wrong, the book was very interesting and detailed his problems without the sticky sweet self-help overlay.  I did not expect the detail though on all his medical procedures, all I can say is that I hope I never have half of this done to me.   I really enjoyed the detail he goes into on the training and all the pain that he goes through.  He also very down to earth, I wonder just how raw the book would have been if not for professional writer he hired.  <br />I also thought that his real personality comes through, that is the hard charger that is very sure of him self.    I guess one would either have to be or being at the top of your profession makes you that way.  This ego, for lack of a better word, was the only real negative I found with the book.  Overall it was a very interesting and uplifting book.	2002-12-13
1308710:US	41012519	RE6V8D0IOVCSA	5552143396	530457237	Behind the Scenes: In Which the Author Talks about Ronald and Nancy Reagan and . . . Himself (Ramona Quimby)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A 250 Page Love Letter	I am assuming that there are only three reasons that you have found your way to this book.  Either you are a die hard political junky, you have an intense interest in anything Reagan related or you made a mistake.   The reason I bought the book was that I am a bit of a political junky and I was hoping that the book would tell me a bit about the administration I did not know.   I knew going into the book that there is absolutely no other person on the plant that loved the Reagan's more then Deaver, therefore, I was not going to find interesting gossip about them.  What I was hoping for is that we would give me some good gossip on Baker, Regan or any of the others that were part of the administration.<br />Well it turns out that this author wrote the nicest, non-offensive political memoir in the history of political memoirs.  He even did not have much bad to say about the special prosecutors that were trying to put him in jail.  Overall the book reads fast and is positive, there are a few interesting parts, but nothing really exciting.  He also spends the last 20% of the book talking about how he did not commit the crimes he was later convicted of.	2002-12-11
1311232:US	41012519	RJGCE71HKQ47P	079226472X	375118797	K-19 THE WIDOWMAKER: The Secret Story of The Soviet Nuclear Submarine	Books	4	7	8	N	N	More Then Just K 19 Incident	The dust jacket and some corporate reviews of this book do not do it service in regard to the content. The book is far more then just the details of the nuclear incident on the K 19. The author has also given the reader an overview of the Soviet submarine program from after WW 2 to the present time and a run down of the major accidents they have suffered over the years. I actually felt these were the better parts of the book. It is really concerning to think that these massively destructive boats were out there (and still are) in such bad shape. The world is lucky that there was not an incident closer to shore, which could have left a huge section uninhabitable for main years. <br />The author also includes excerpts from the captain's memoir talking about the K 19, its fitting out and the accident the book is based on. The reader is lucky that the author interrupts sections of the original captain's work to include extra info, because the original captain's work is very dry. The author has a gift for telling the details, but making them move along without heavy and dull lectures on nuclear engineering or submarine physics. Overall the book is interesting and adds some good Soviet companion info to the book \\"Blind Mans Bluff\\" I only wish it would have had more. If you are interested in Clod War submarine events then this book is a must for USSR details.	2002-12-09
1315078:US	41012519	R3AL1VTWAHG33V	0312198388	639000012	The Bombing of Auschwitz: Should the Allies Have Attempted It?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Great Debate	I love a good debate and this book is probably the closest one could come to a well thought out debate and not actually participate in it.  The authors / editors do a great job of selecting the historians to write the chapters, I do not think you could ask for a more well spoken, knowledgeable and balanced group.  I thought the book would have a lot of emotion shading the arguments almost to the point of making the debate fall into a day time talk show format of pushing and shouting, but that never happened.  The chapters provided very convincing and detail laden essays on each particular facet of the issue with a for and against article to balance the debate.     <br />To be honest I did not have an opion one way or the other on this topic before picking up the book.  What then happened was that I kept bouncing from one side to the next with each article until I sat back and viewed the book in its totality.   My opinion really only maters to me so I will spare you, but this book will definitely help you in forming one.  The editors also did a good job of making sure that the book had a nice flow, sometimes I find that with books of different articles by different people you can get a choppy book.  It also provides a ton of interesting details about the air war in Europe something I was not expecting but came as a pleasant surprise.   Overall this is a very well thought out, well written book that will provide you with a great deal of information.	2002-12-06
1320187:US	41012519	RHEG7NEGRF5AO	0140248951	75055711	The Immaculate Invasion	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well Written and Interesting View	There are not a lot of books covering the USA operation / occupation of Haiti in 1994 so I was excited to find this one.  I was looking forward to a review of what actually happened, what forces were used, what they did and the overall politics involved.    Unfortunately for me this book really did not cover that aspect of the occupation.   The author spent his time with one group of Special Forces troops and detailed out what they went through and what the author saw going on in Haiti.  This was interesting and well written, but a little too limited for my taste.  The book is almost what you would expect a conversation would be like with a college buddy who was there and saw the events, not a complete account from a historic perspective.  <br />With this being said I really enjoyed the book.  It gives the reader a soldiers / reports eye view of the situation in Haiti.  The real desperate conditions the Haitians live in came through in the writing.   You also got a good feeling for the confusion that soldiers fell into by being asked to function is tasks that they really are not trained for, police work, social work and community planning.  Shacochis also had a great way of off the cuff, smart remarks that added a lot of humor to the book.  You can tell that his main writing has been fiction in the past because he spends a lot of time on the scene development - making sure the reader understands the sights and smells and not just the investigative reports trap of just the facts.   I would have liked more detail, but overall the book was enjoyable.	2002-12-02
1324143:US	41012519	R3V5K7G746J19L	1586480804	465415861	Deadlock: The Inside Story of America's Closest Election	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More Detail Would Have Been Nice	Two things struck me while reading this book, the first is that I doubt there is a book out there that is truly balanced and not somewhat biased.  The second thing was that Gore really got the shaft, not so much by the recount wars, but by the election official that came up with the Butterfly Ballot.  In the history of the USA this decision ranks up there with new Coke and the XFL, what a mistake.  As far as the reporting in the book it was not bad for a review of all the articles they had in the paper, but it did not really dig into the particular issues very deeply.  I wanted more detail and behind the scenes with both the candidates.  I also wanted more details on the court cases; I felt like the sky-high overview of the issues of the cases did not do such an important issue justice.      <br />In reading the book I think a little bit of a democratic bias comes out, just a little, but enough to notice.   I also thought it interesting that they had far more details of the Gore group then the Bush camp, it follows the perception that the Post is somewhat liberal in its views.  The book is an overview that came out almost 10 minutes after Gore hung up the phone on the second concession call so there are a few more details out now that they did not get in the book.  Overall it is a good effort and a readable book, but not the end all be all on the subject.	2002-11-28
1326637:US	41012519	R1L2T69HZ6ZAO0	0029197619	737084017	Embattled Courage: The Experience of Combat in the American Civil War	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Title is Misleading	When I picked this book up I was excited to read it given that it looked to cover what life was like for the soldier in the field during the Civil War.  Unfortunately, a detailed view of the fighting was not exactly what this book offered.  The author spent the first third of the book talking about what part courage played in the war effort and with the individual soldier.   He goes into detail on the different aspects of how courage and how brave the soldiers effected the way the war was fought, the way the soldiers interacted with each other and the view of the general public.  This was somewhat interesting as a study of how personnel emotion and appearances effect the soldier in a war, but this not was I was looking for.   I wanted detailed accounts of what it was like to be an every day Joe fighting day in and day out.  <br />This may be a bit harsh in that the second half of the book does get into more detail about the soldiers in battle.  He covers many different aspects of the war effort from gathering food and firing weapons to what it was like to get wounded in a fight.    I found the information on the looting that took place to be interesting and surprising that these guys would basically steal from their neighbors.  I also felt that the writing was just a bit stiff, the author is talking about courage and battle, very moving and exciting topics, unfortunately the book was not.  Overall, the book was a solid piece of reporting and research on the topic of bravery and a war effort; it just was not want I was looking for.	2002-11-26
1332415:US	41012519	R2EOCO2GDO8T34	0312051565	318960534	Silent Coup: The Removal of a President	Books	5	32	63	N	N	All Around Good Book	I have never liked John Dean and this book gave me 450 more pages of reasons to dislike him.   Ok that might be a bit much, but the authors basically blame Dean and Haig for most of Nixon's problems.  The book gives the reader a great overview of the Watergate scandal and what took place behind the scenes.   If you have read a number of books on this topic then this one has a new and interesting look at what really happened.  Not to give too much away but the authors make a claim that it was actually a few people that were on the Presidents staff that pushed, tricked and caused Nixon to make the mistakes he did which resulted in him resigning.  We also get their guess at who good old Deep Throat was.<br />The authors do a very good job in detailing out all of the research they did to come to their conclusions.  It looks like they read every book on the subject and talked to about 90% of the key players in the event.  They give us all the instances where the statements that Dean made were just not completely correct and detail the many instances where Dean was completely wrong in many of his statements.  They also have an interesting dup in the form of Woodward, which was an interesting tidbit.   Overall it is hard to completely take all responsibility away from Nixon.  The statements he made on tape and the full range of dirty tricks and abuse of power items that Nixon did just went too far to think that the issues around a Watergate cover up would be beyond him.  The book is very interesting and is full of great insight into the administration.  If you are interested at all in Watergate then you will really enjoy this book	2002-11-21
1335395:US	41012519	R3NFBPVQHEY30W	0312198574	864836524	Dirty Little Secrets of the Vietnam War	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Average	The title of this book is very misleading in that it promises new items that you might find with a hard hitting investigative report or a new history of the war.  What the book gives the reader is a nice overview of facts and interesting details from the war, but it is not a good general study of the Vietnam War.  If you are looking for a book to start on the war or just have a book at hand with lots of facts, charts and lists then this is the one for you.  There were also some parts of the book that the authors did try and get a little deeper into, but that is not there strong point and I got the feeling they we filling space and hurrying to the next list.  Overall the book is a written well and easy to read bunch of facts.	2002-11-18
1339523:US	41012519	RJKYPZN11YXW5	0465005241	364188605	Rudy!: An Investigative Biography Of Rudy Giuliani	Books	2	11	27	N	N	Rubbish	After reading this book I have decided that a rule of mine should be never to read a book with an exclamation mark in the title.  I picked this book up to learn more about the man that has been every where over the last year, what I got was a book filled with innuendo, conjecture and slanted comments meant to dirty the reputation of the subject.  I would think that if this author dug into anyone's background and used his form of slash and burn reporting, the person - any person - would come off bad.   Some of the barbs do have some truth, but given that Guiliani is a hard charging politician, they come with the territory.  Sure he has stepped on some toes, changed or flip flopped on a few campaign statements, and maybe like all of us, taken a little too much credit for positive accomplishments, but that is not the view this author wants you to come away with.  Lets face it, the author has a great deal of animosity toward Guiliani and he used this book to vent.<br />I also was bothered by the book setup, I like a biography to follow chronologically - I want to learn about the person through their life.   This book takes subjects or topics and details his life via the subject so each part of the book covers the mans whole life.  I also felt the writing was somewhat choppy and just not very smooth.  To tell the truth I kept reading to find errors in what the author was saying.   If you are looking for an unbiased look at Guiliani then keep looking, this book is nothing more then a political hack job.	2002-11-15
1342293:US	41012519	R241YB7XB0HI8	0425158365	287965603	Armored Cav (Tom Clancy's Military Reference)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Average Work	If you have read any of the other books in the series then you know what to expect with this one.   The book follows the familiar format, it details out the machinery used, the troops, the division make up of the topic in the armed forces, a few interviews and it ends with some fictionalized short stories describing the expected types of encounters this area would face in the future.  All in all a basic book on the armored cavalry that gives you all the basics.  The Clancy style of writing, lots of facts and plodding movement work well in this type of book given that you buy it to learn about the subject.<br />Overall it is a good effort and if you have been happy with the other books in the series you will enjoy this one.  My only complaints were that there did not seam to be enough photos of the equipment for me.  Sure they had all the main items, but I wanted a picture of every truck and tractor covered in the book.   I also would have liked to have seen a comparison of the other counties main battle tanks - something he did with his Submarine and Aircraft Carrier books.   And one last little complaint - what was with his ending every chapter with some junior high school type rah-rah cheer.  We are talking about the military; do we need this type of comic book love-fest mentality?	2002-11-13
1343948:US	41012519	RXC7SL2VTPXPF	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	30	41	N	N	Very Fun Book	The constant with this authors books is that he has the gossip, the really good stuff that makes you want to stay up late at night reading. It just happens that this time he is spilling the beans on himself and what appears to be the complete cast of conservative pundits, authors, radio and TV personalities, politicians and anyone else that had some part to play in the anti Clinton 90's. Brock reminds me of that old war story were the Sargent is so brutal to his own men that not only is the enemy trying to kill him, but so are his own men. Now that the author has taken on both the Democrats and Republicans in tell all books, I doubt he has many friends left except his publisher. <br />As a fan of President Clinton I rather enjoyed the different zings the author took at what is basically the complete cast and guest list of the FOX news channel. He details out his participation and the set up of the \\"right-wing Clinton-bashing conspiracy\\" that we have heard so much about. The problem I have is that if the author is confessing to such nasty self-serving lies in his past, his credibility now may not be the best. Don't get me wrong - - I want to believe every thing he says so I will go along with it, but I can see the point that his distracters are raising. To get more back ground on his outing of the \\"right-wing conspiracy\\" I would also suggest the book - The hunting of the President. Overall both books detail a sad part in American politics when not agreeing with every part of the Republican platform made you a target for vile hate filled lies designed to ruin your public career. Both books are great.	2002-11-11
1347461:US	41012519	R13LKI5ZJM4V0L	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Great 1st Step	When I bought this book I had read some rather nasty reviews stating that the book was very left of center and nothing more then a 200 page campaign add.  In all honesty that would not have been disappointing for me to read, but what I got was a book that did not shy away from the biggest disappointments of the Clinton Presidency.   The author tries to provide a balanced look at the Clinton Presidency by given equal time to both the good and the bad.  Sure the author leans to the left a bit but that did not make him pull up the rains at all when talking over the personal problems Clinton kept getting involved in.<br />I think Klein did a very good job with the book, he is a funny and sharp writer that keeps you wanting to read the book in one sitting.   I would also say that the writing style is not for the quick and easy reader, it makes you want to pay attention and think over the writing after you put the book down.  My only real complaint is that I would have liked about twice as much volume.  At a bit over 200 pages it does feel like it just gives a broad overview.  Overall I found the book very enjoyable and interesting that anyone that is interested in President Clinton will find entertaining and useful.	2002-11-08
1349893:US	41012519	R31GVI23J9PK14	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting and Scary	My biggest fear when picking up a book like this is that it is going to be weighted down in a ton of 45 letter words that bog the reader down like a medical text would.  Well this book is far from that - the authors did add in the medical names for the germs but that was the end of the dry medical mumbo jumbo.  The book reads like a good investigative report, it keeps you interested through the full book.  They really spend most of their time covering the USSR / Russian, Iraqi and American programs and the horrible little germs that they created.   The amount of deadly germs these guys created was really amazing.  Why do you need to create enough to kill everybody on the earth 5 times over when you already have that ability with your nuclear weapons?   It is also interesting the bits of info they drop into the book about some of the other countries and what they have tried to do.  <br />Overall the book is a bit scary i.e. the sicknesses that are out there are really awful.  To think that some crazed terrorist or odd ball could get his hands on something like this is not a happy thought.  What made it even more interesting is that the book came out right before the Anthrax attacks of 2001.   The book is not a how to book on creating the germs or any deep biology textbook; if that is what you are looking for you will be disappointed.   It is an interesting report that will get you thinking.	2002-11-06
1352825:US	41012519	R1YLKPU3GINMYI	1559725206	52093416	The Corruption of American Politics: What Went Wrong and Why	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One Word - Money	I have enjoyed reading this authors work in the past so I was interested to see what she did with this topic.  I was not disappointed with the book, but I felt that the title and dust jacket description was misleading.  The book is presented as going to be a history sense Nixon as to the steady decline in American politics.  What the book delivered is some history, but basically a complete review of the Fred Thompson 1996 campaign financing hearings and the President Clinton Impeachment process.   With this said I was not disappointed because the author is great at adding interesting insights into the personalities of the House and Senate members she talks about.  Many descriptions could be called biting, she does not side step comments that could be considered non-politically correct.  She also goes after everyone involved, I have heard that some people think she is a bit liberal in her views but judging by the comments she makes on Clinton et all I was hard pressed to find the liberal soft spot. <br />Overall she gives a very good analysis of the current state of American politics, which comes down to one thing - it takes lots of money to win.  Unfortunately that means that the politicians we have spend a great amount of their time asking, begging and anything else to get money.   I also found the discussion on the increase levels of partisan tactics to be very concerning.  How can anything worth while get done in the current environment?  Lastly she also dropped into the book interesting details of the rules of the House and Senate.  Overall the book was interesting and well written.	2002-11-04
1357332:US	41012519	R1KUGEUINUDQF7	0593049985	906850655	War Junkie	Books	2	2	8	N	N	This Book Has Average Written All Over It	This book does not live up to the hype on the dust jacket. Sure we get the detail of this reports time in some of the best war zones of the 90's but the writing just does not live up to the standard of a rating of a 5. The book is about 450 pages and of that the editor could have easily taken out about 100, these were the pages when he talks about his life outside of the war zones (dull) and his relationships with fast women (boring). All this is intermixed with his drug use with descriptions that come right out of a Hunter Thompson book. <br />I do not want to be too harsh, there are some interesting facts and stories, and we get a view of what it is like to be a war focused TV cameraman. It is just that you have to wade through some rather dull work to get to the gems. I also did not think he really sold me on the \\"emotional meltdown\\", sure he saw some down right horrible stuff, but his writing did not convey how it effected him to the point of his breakdown in a London airport. Overall I would say this is an average book but don't be expecting a thrill ride.	2002-10-30
1364598:US	41012519	R956ZB5XA0F5N	0385422598	516681005	Sleepwalking Through History	Books	3	20	42	N	N	Bland and Dull	I really wanted to read this book based on the assumption that it would be an overview of the policies that the Reagan administration put in place and the effects it had on the U.S. - good or bad.  Unfortunately, that really was not this book was about, the first 100 pages are all about Reagan before he was elected President.   If I wanted that history I would have read a bio on Reagan.  There was about 150 pages on Iran Contra and then about 100 pages of fill talking about MTV and Wall Street scandals.   Again not really what I was looking for.   I am not a big fan of the Reagan administration so I wanted an articulate and well thought out look at the administration, but this author tries to blame everything on him.  I wanted some pointed zingers, but his weak links just made me think that he was a little over the top.<br />As far as the writing went, I thought the author jumped around a lot from one topic to another with no clear, smooth transition.  I guess I expected more from such a well know and respected author, what I got was a general review of the 80's with an effort to place all errors and issues on the shoulders of Reagan.   I also may be a little bias in that I have read a good number of books over Iran - Contra so a 150 page review written so close to the event is inevitably going to leave out some info that fuller telling of the story would include.  Overall I would not recommend this book if you have a good understanding of the period or issues, because there will be nothing new for you.	2002-10-24
1368402:US	41012519	R2PILPQDCSR5T0	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Very Well Written - Very Enlightening Book	Wow, before reading this book if you would have told me that it was hard to live on $7 an hour I probably would have said ok, but I am sure it is not that hard.  Then I read this book which detailed out sleeping in your car and having meals of just hot dog buns, this really drove the point home to me how hard it would be.  This author took a year off of her normal job to live in three different parts of America and work at entry-level jobs.  I guess the word \\"live\\" would imply a bit of a comfortable or even safe lifestyle, which, given the slums she had to live in is an over statement.     <br />The author sums up the book with some liberal leanings, but overall does not present a bunch of big government solutions to the problem.   I do not think that was her point nor what she is good at.  What she did do is present what life is like at the lowest rung of the current American economic ladder which is really eye opening.  She is adding her voice to help a segment of the population that can not effectively speak for themselves in one of the richest countries ever.  That is probably the most shocking thing for me, you would expect these kind of sad stories of poverty in parts of Africa, Asia or Central America, but not Key West Florida.  Overall it was an entertaining and interesting book that you can finish in a weekend.	2002-10-21
1374439:US	41012519	R2FZQFKFAB2SXQ	0374190666	272916113	Longitudes and Attitudes: Exploring the World After September 11	Books	5	13	16	N	N	He is The Expert on This Subject	It really is a pleasure to read such well written essays.  The author does a wonderful job of explaining an opinion in a short period of time.   As you have read the book is in three parts, columns before September 11, columns after September 11th and some commentary at the end of the book to expand on his columns.  He just provides a clear and insightful way to look at the issues surrounding the Middle East - I found myself learning a good deal from the book.  I also found his comments about Bush 2 and Clinton interesting, I felt he gave them both equal amounts of praise and grief.  I also found the descriptions of the current cultural situations in places like Saudi Arabia, UAE and Kuwait interesting and eye-opening, although it did seam that the author has a bone to pick with Saudi Arabia and probably rightly so.  <br />I think the only issue I would have with the book is that many thoughts are repeated.  Given that 60% of the book were bi-weekly columns I understand why he needed to repeat themes and statements for the column reader, but in a book it tends to be a little repetitive.  I got the most enjoyment out of his overview in the back.   I would suggest that you spread the book out of a week or so, so that the repeating issues are not so much in the forefront of your view of the book.   Other then this minor point the book is very interesting and well written.  I read it over a weekend, it moved very fast.   He has some very unique ideas that make you stop and think about how you perceive a certain situation.	2002-10-16
1376462:US	41012519	R37Z90CQXDIYL	006013514X	541136724	The Palace Guard	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Bit Dated Yet Interesting	This book covers the inter working of the Nixon White House and the two people the authors claim really ran the day to day - John Ehrlichman and Bob Haldeman.  The book starts out with a nice history on the power of the Presidents cabinets during the time from FDR to Nixon and the back and forth that took place with power being centralized in the White House or at the cabinet level.  The authors also provided an interesting review of the Nixon cabinet picks - who they were, how they got their jobs and what happened to them during the course of the administration.   Of course following the premise of the book a good deal of this reporting centers on how Ehrlichman and Haldeman interacted with them and or caused their downfall.  <br />The authors did make a lot about how Ehrlichman and Haldeman were in such control and the power they held, but all administrations have similar people - if not they fall into disarray.  A good example of this would be the first few years of the Clinton administration until the Chief of Staff was replaced - many books have detailed the out of control White House and the mistakes that were made.  I think what is unique or most interesting about this book is the underlying tone of the administration and its use of power not only to get things done, but also to punish political enemies.  The book touches on that part of the administration and you see it in many of the actions Ehrlichman and Haldeman took.   <BR>    <BR>The authors have a spunky writing style, but many references are 1970's based and if you were not even a teenager in the 70's it is something difficult to understand the full meaning of the comments.   Overall it was an interesting book that covers an aspect that was not as well reported as the break in and cover up.  I would think that it is a book that would appeal most to political junkies.	2002-10-14
1380094:US	41012519	R19ITCQ9TNYCT1	038079246X	308629152	Who Owns Death? Capital Punishment, the American Conscience, and the End of Executions	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Interesting Look Yet Not Unbiased	I was a bit disappointed in this book because the dust jacket states the authors attempted to write a unbiased book covering the people that are part of the capital punishment process in America.  Maybe it is that the authors stance on the death penalty is so strong that it is all they could do to be as objective as they were, but I was still looking for an unbiased account.  With that said I did learn a lot from the book, I also agree with the author's position on the death penalty so their position was not that hard to take.  I just wanted more of the other side represented so that I could learn more about that point of view.  <br />The most eye opening part of the book is just the raw data on how many people are currently on death row and how many people have been taken off death row after being proven innocent.  The authors also take the reader through all the people associated with the death penalty for interviews.  From Judges and juries to the prison guards and executioners, all get a say in the book.  What was interesting is that the authors did not present any really gun ho, hang them high types, all the people seamed down to earth and a little uneasy about the whole process.  I think there is such a primitive law and order feeling associated with the states power to end a life that I do not think the authors are correct that the death penalty is coming to an end in America - it just appeals to too much of the population.  <br />Overall this is an interesting and eye-opening book.  If you are interested in the personal side of the death penalty then this is a good place to start.  It did slow down at the end and again I would have liked a little more unbiased writing if only to hold the book out as an example of an unbiased report pushing for the end to the death penalty.	2002-10-11
1382699:US	41012519	R3LS3QLKPR37Q5	0684830248	91489035	Chances of a Lifetime: A Memoir	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Solid, Positive and Truthful	If you are looking for a kiss and tell book full of gossip or new and exciting state secrets this is not the book for you. The author may be the last true nice guy in politics and his book echo's his character. The book spends about 30% of its time on his boyhood, working with the LBJ administration and working on different riots in he country. To be honest, this was not what I really was interested in. The rest of the book deals with his work in the Carter and Clinton administrations, which I felt was the most interesting sections of the book. <br />Christopher spends a good deal of time on his involvement in the Iran hostage crisis in 1979 and 1980 and on the Middle East peace process during his Clinton years. Both areas are well written and interesting, he brings a sense of a true gentleman to his writing - always taking the civil high road in his descriptions. I also found the sections on the personal security given to the Secretary of State and how he travels around the world new and interesting. Overall the author does a good job in this memoir; it is well written and understated. You understand why the author is so well respected; he goes out of his way not to include snide little comments and back- handed attacks that fill so many memoirs.	2002-10-09
1384887:US	41012519	R38PZ6E79478OW	0754809900	214366936	Illustrated Book of Fighter Aircraft: From the Earliest Planes to the Supersonic Jets of Today	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Average Attempt	This book offers an interesting and brief review of the fighter aircraft from World War 1 to current day.  Because of the large range of aircraft the authors needed to condense the information they were able to provide, thus this book is an overview only (and at a high level at that).  I also thought that the layout of the pages per aircraft could have been done better, for example the authors detail when the fighter started production but not when it entered service nor the countries that use / used the fighter.   Overall the book is ok with the basic information.  It has all color photos, which is a plus.	2002-10-07
1387616:US	41012519	R1HUANRXLKQPPD	0684862360	819251496	Now, Let Me Tell You What I Really Think	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Bland and Short	In one comment - I was disappointed with this book.   I was looking for some really opinionated, cut to the bone discussions about topics most pundits and politicians stay away from.  I wanted something hard and in your face - after all that is what he is know for and the title of the book implies that the reader is in for some good old fashion straight talk.  Lets face it that is why you buy the book, for the most part I really do not care too much about what he thinks, I am interested in new opinions and arguments.  What the author gave us a lukewarm and close to politically correct set of comments that really did not get me excited.  <br />Overall my opinion would be Blah Blah Blah, nothing new or that earth shaking.  It is not all bad, there are some interesting comments here and there and the author did not spend too much time in writing the book so you can get through it in a few hours.   It really has no historic value as he really did not dig too deep into any one topic and the entertainment value is not too high either.	2002-10-04
1390243:US	41012519	R1JO9JDL8V184H	0679411585	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once...And Young: Ia Drang The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	21	22	N	N	One of The Best Combat Books	I must say that I saw this movie before I read the book.  I was concerned that the first 20 - 30% of the book would be similar to the movie with a review of the soldiers family lives, life on the base, the creation of the unit, and the training.  Not that this information is not interesting, but this book was held out as one of the better books on Vietnam combat, not base life descriptions.  I turned out to be pleased with the book in that it started out with action and never stopped.  I have read a number of books about combat and this one was one of the best I have read - ranking up there with Back Hawk Down.   From page 1 to the end there are no slow spots in the book, it is full speed the whole way.  <br />The book tells the story of two different, but related battles that took place in 1965.  They were the first major battles of the American effort in the war and they were some of the hardest fought.  The author interviewed what seams like almost everybody that made it out for the book, and he lets the soldiers use their own words so that you get a full picture of each section of the battle.   It is interesting to see how two or three different people in different locations viewed / remembered the same situations.   The one draw back to this form of story telling is that there is not a consistent author's style.  This is a minor point because Harold Moore did a wonderful job in telling the story and placing the other solders statements in the text.  Overall it is a great book that anyone interested in combat or the Vietnam War will need to read.	2002-10-02
1392343:US	41012519	RAWLAVY9INAG4	B00006B6M3	684726721	Does America Need a Foreign Policy?	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Very Good Overview	Reading this book is similar to listening to a Kissinger interview, it is a bit dry, at times hard to understand the first pass over, but in the end a well thought out, accurate and inteligent set of comments.  I think the biggest complaint I have with the book is that the title is misleading.  The author does not argue if the U.S. needs a foreign policy, but he explains the different regions of the world and what issues effect the U.S. and how our foreign policy should take these issues into account.   I took the most out of the chapters on the Middle East and Asia, but was surprised by the chapter on the America's.  There was a ton of information that would help any student of American politics and what the country will be facing in the upcoming 10 - 20 years. <br />The only other issue I had with the book was his few attempts to point out errors in American foreign policy and almost always placing the blame with the Clinton administration.  Although in certain circles that is the fad thing to do, there have been a number of errors or oversights by the other administrations sense the Nixon administration which could have been used to highlight a point.  The most important point in the book is that the government and people of the U.S. need to debate and develop a long term and global set of policies to take us through the next 30 years and stop the reacting to a crisis here and a crisis there.  I think this is the overriding point he was making with the book.   Overall the book is well written and smart.  It provides an excellent introduction to the foreign policy issues in the world today.  Just be prepared to work for it.	2002-09-30
1392963:US	41012519	R2P0H6857BVA5G	0553577484	777069695	Ironclaw	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Interesting but not Top Gun	This book was not the literary version of Top Gun so if you are looking for seat of the pants air combat this is not really the book to read.  The author was a navy EA-6 Prowler pilot during the Gulf War.  He flew from the U.S.S. Midway.  One of the more interesting parts of his story is that he was a new carrier pilot at the start of the conflict, therefore, he had to get accustomed to flying from a carrier during war conditions.  The tensest passages in the book deal with his night landings and aerial refuelings.  The actual job his aircraft performed in the war, although very valuable, was a bit dull.  This was not air to air fighter pilot dogfights.  <br />I was also a little disappointed with his descriptions of what life was like on a carrier during wartime.   There were some descriptions, but not enough for me to get a good picture of his time out on the ship.    Do not get me wrong, the book was enjoyable and the writing was good.  The book did tell the story of the war that most of us would not get to hear given the author was not a fighter pilot glamour jockey.  I just wanted a bit more overall details of his group's missions and life on the carrier and skip the love story.	2002-09-30
1395765:US	41012519	R15AOC36A283N0	0380809397	32158399	Delta Force: The Army's Elite Counterterrorist Unit	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Light on the Action	I picked up this book thinking there was going to be a good amount of detail of past missions.   After reading the book I found that my assumption was wrong.  The book starts out with the author's career during the Vietnam War and ends with a description of the Iran hostage rescue operation in 1980.   The majority of the book is a review of the author's struggles to set up the Delta Force and a lot of detail on the training that took place.  If this is what you are looking for then the book will interest you.   If you are after a lot of combat action then you will be disappointed.  <br />I did find the slow and painful description of how the Army bureaucracy works to be an eye opener.   I would have thought all the higher ups would have jumped at creating a group like Delta but that just was not the case.   This could be a case study for persistence in how the author got his group up and running.   Overall I found the book to be well written and interesting.  There were a few slow spots in the middle, but not so bad that it would make you put down the book.	2002-09-27
1395839:US	41012519	R38GBDJ4E70SZM	068482731X	866646365	The Control Room: How Television Calls the Shots in Presidential Elections	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting Details, Bland Writing	The author, an ex CBS political director, takes the reader through the evolution of how the networks cover the presidential election process from the primary process, the convention and to the final vote.  He provides a book full of interesting details on how the process works and what got it there.   There are also a number of insider stories on the interaction of the campaigns and the networks.  The main focus of the book is to show how the campaigns are big-time shows that the networks run with and the candidates use the networks as much as the networks use the candidates.   If you follow politics you already new this to be the case so from a stand point of the book breaking news it fell short.<br />For me the most interesting parts of the book were the details of how the networks show the conventions.  The author details one story of how the Republicans dealt with providing Ford the time for a speech but doing it at a time they new the networks would be performing other on air duties thus ensuring that the viewing public never heard the speech.  The book is full of stories along this line.  Overall the book was interesting to a political junky, the writing was a bit bland therefore if you do not have a high level of interested you may find it difficult to keep reading.	2002-09-27
1412288:US	41012519	R28QS0XKVV30OF	0609609874	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Author is a Bit Grumpy	Be prepared for an author that has a bit of an ax to grind.  This book covers the career of a CIA Field officer that was spent mostly in the Middle East.  Given the current war on terrorism this makes the book even more interesting past the normal espionage junky stuff.  The author details many of the mistakes the CIA and then Presidential Administration made over the past 10 - 15 years that had at least and indirect effect on the September 11th attack.   The author really gets going in the book when talking about his posting in Beirut and the bombing of the marine compound and the hostage taking.   He provides a number of interesting bits of information and a good overview of the work the CIA did to solve the issues.<br />I did feel that the middle of the book dragged a little.  The author was talking about his experiences in the \\"Stan\\" countries of the former USSR and it just did not have the pep and zip that the rest of the book had.   He did make up for it at the end with a lot of good details on the lead up to the 9 - 11 attacks and what the government could have done to stop them.   He lists out a number of errors committed by the CIA and FBI, but his negative attitude about his former employer tends to come out a bit heavy here.   Overall the book was very interesting.   The author left in the items that we blocked out due to government censorship and that in it's self was interesting - what is left in and taken out.   Many of the errors he highlighted I would have assumed the government would have liked to cover up	2002-09-11
1412750:US	41012519	R3OB37S69ZW0G0	0812909003	489683643	No Margin for Error: America in the Eighties	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Big Ego	This book was a mistake on my part, I bought it used off the Internet and it had the wrong publish date thus I thought it would have something to do with his time working in the Reagan administration.   It did not.  The book looked to me to be some kind of pre presidential campaign book.   It basically laid out his ideas on what he would change if he had the power.   A few things come out of the book fairly quick; first he disliked the Carter Administration and most things Democratic.  Next he has a rather large ego, so large he filled up 250 pages of \\"I am the best\\" dogma.   I only kept reading because it got a funny after a time.   Overall I was very disappointed in the book.   I would think it would only be of interest to someone that is studying his life or is interested by egomaniacs.	2002-09-11
1414245:US	41012519	R2LRQK1ONLQ4P1	1582791066	606150418	The Second World War Vol. 7 - Scorched Earth	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Series	This series of books provides all the newspaper reports from the UK related to the topic of the volume during World War Two. There are also just a massive amount of photographs. This volume details the entry into Russia by the Germans and then the entry into Germany by the Russians.  IT covers the \\"total war\\" that was inflicted on the civilian populations and a few details on the camps.  There is a little coverage of what took place in China by the Japanese forces.  I did think that the book is more Europe focused, but given that they are UK papers you expect that. There is also an interesting home country twist or slant to the reporting that is probably unique to any paper from a country participating. What would have been interesting is if they could have provided reports from both the UK newspaper and from an U.S. newspaper to get \\"both\\" sides of the story. <br />Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth. I also found the hatred for the Germans to come through in the writing - it is hard to keep that dislike out of the reporting. I think if you are a real die-hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not I would go to the library to view the books. Overall the editors did a good job of presenting the information.	2002-09-09
1414334:US	41012519	R2XDE2SOP8FPBP	0465045901	212702260	Smash Mouth: Two Years In The Gutter With Al Gore And George W. Bush -- Notes From The 2000 Campaign Trail	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Funny, Smart and Interesting	This was a very funny look at the 2000 presidential race. His book is not a dry blow by blow account of the race that focuses on issues, but a fun look at the process from a reports eye view.   I have read a number of serious books on politics and elections and this book was a nice change of pace.  If you are looking for a book to take you through the differences in the candidate's issues then this is not the book for you.   It is a fun look at all the parts of a campaign that the average person would not know about.  <br />The writing is very humorous, interesting and insightful making the book a real joy to read.  It takes you through two years of debates, stump speeches and the \\"story of the day\\" news cycle that seam to define the candidates now.   We even get a lot of behind the scenes info like how does a pole actually work, what is he day like for the reporters and how do the candidates get around.  I also found that the author gave digs to all the candidates, not just the ones that he did not like.   Overall this was a funny, smart book that is a refreshing step away from the serious books in this field.	2002-09-09
1418193:US	41012519	R1PQNXA61NYLM	0316779059	647537444	The Baby Book: Everything You Need to Know About Your Baby from Birth to Age Two	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Truly Everything You Need to Know	When may wife I were handed this book we were sure that everything we would ever need to know must be in the book given it's size.  Well it turns out that we were correct, at least there has been nothing we have not be able to find yet.  Being new parents we needed a resource guide, so by both our purchasing and gifts we now have a rather large collection of pregnancy and early childcare books.   This book has turned out to be one of our favorites.   <br />The main underlying parenting method the authors use is the attachment parenting method.  For us, this seamed like the best way to go.  The method is a gentle approach to parenting that stresses bonding with your baby, not harsh parenting more akin to a prison guard approach then a parent. We feel that their approach makes us more relaxed and able to trust our instincts - we love our child and want the best for her.   We are thinking that it may be a good idea to supply copies of this book to our parents so they understand why we do the things we do compared to the way they handled situations. <br />The book is more then this, it is a comprehensive baby care book that provides a wealth of information on treatment of illnesses and infant nutritional requirements.  It is well put together and it is very easy to find what you are looking for. The information is spelled out in a clear and easy to read method.  The illness chart is very helpful with detailed descriptions that were as reassuring as it was helpful.  <br />Given that the authors' are a husband and wife gave them a solid background for the advice presented in this book.   My wife and I both enjoyed the viewpoints of both the mother and father.  The book is even good to buy before the birth as it has information on preparing yourself and your home for the new little one.  Overall the book is well worth reading.	2002-09-05
1421987:US	41012519	R26NFB4P89LCLW	067088006X	50231744	The Unfinished Presidency: Jimmy Carter's Journey Beyond the White House	Books	4	9	11	N	N	An Explanation of the Man and What he Does	Just watching the news and reading the papers over the years one would see a story here and there about Jimmy Carter, but until I read this book I really did not have a good appreciation for just how many issues / events he has been involved with over the years.  This book covers the last 15 + years sense he was President.  What really interested me was not the good work he does for Habitat for Humanity, but the freelance diplomatic work he seams to always be getting involved with.  The list of countries and wars he has visited and worked to bring peace on is a top ten list of some of the least pleasant places on the planet.  It is clear to me that he is doing the work for a greater propose then getting a free trip.       <br />I also did not realize the level of his ego; it could possibly be the most unattractive character trait that came through in the book.  Many times I was thinking to my self that Carter really did not have the status to be demanding from the current Presidents all the information and private briefings that he asks for and receives.  We can all see that he does help, but the flip side of the issue is that some times he probably can cause extra difficulty for the current administration.  A case in point would have been the Gulf War.  I found the descriptions of his interacting with the Presidents after him to be the most interesting part of the book.     <br />Overall this was an interesting and insightful book.  I did not realize that Carter was involved in so many good projects.  My only complaint is that I found the non-political stuff less interesting, but it was needed to give a full picture of the man. If you have an interest in Jimmy Carter or just global politics in the last 20 years then you will probably enjoy this book.	2002-09-02
1425926:US	41012519	R32DJDZZUKK4HH	0891415505	405035862	Summons of Trumpet: U.S.-Vietnam in Perspective	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Very Good Overview	I was looking for a good overview book of the Vietnam War and this really fit the bill.   The author put together a well thought out, easy to read and well-written book that does a good job of giving the reader the high points.   The author was a solder in the combat and spent a number of years in the military so he has an authoritative position to speak from.   He does a great job of keeping the book away from being overly laden with military jargon or the Rambo style of combat writing.  The book is focused on the American effort and thus skims the pre U.S. troop entry into the war.   If you are looking for a deeper history on the start of the war with the French or the overall American involvement in Asia then this book will disappoint.   <br />The treatment he gave to the major battles was good.   He presented an easy to follow account of the battle, what lead up to it and the outcome.   He also touched on some of what was happening back home with the politics, but only briefly.   I think the most interesting parts of the book for me was the details of the air war, more specifically how the bombing kept escalating and then the final bombing push by Nixon.  My only complaint with the book is that it was an overview that was a bit too light on the facts for me.   The book was only 270 pages long, and book size do not necessary determine quality, this book could have been a little bit more in-depth.   It seemed to me that to get a better understanding a few more pages could have been added without the overview turning into a in depth study.	2002-08-29
1432536:US	41012519	RPYKKSQBQVYM6	039545185X	43688145	Landslide: The Unmaking of the President, 1984-1988	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Detailed and Well Written	What a wonderful book this turned out to be.  I was expecting a far more biased attack on the Reagan administration overall, instead the authors provided a well researched and written history of the last term of Reagan's presidency.  The authors spent the vast majority of their time talking over the Iran - Contra issue and they did a good job of it.  There is a wealth of details that really take you through the whole event from idea generation through execution to cover up.  I also liked the details of how the staff did or did not get along, I have read some memoirs of some of the staff and they did not give me the full picture unlike this book.  This book brought it all together.<br />My biggest surprise was how out of it Reagan seamed to be.  I have always heard the positive about Reagan was that he stuck to his agenda, but after reading the book you see that at times he did not or he flat out ran out of agenda items.  A good case that style wins over substance in American politics.  The only knock I have on the book would be that the ending was a bit rushed.  The authors could have spent more time on the last two years and how the investigation shook out to give a more complete picture.  This is the reason I did not give the book 5 stars.  Overall it is a great book that I would recommend to anyone interested in the time period, the Reagan presidency or the Iran / Contra issue.	2002-08-22
1435325:US	41012519	R3P0GDJI63YBQ2	0374154929	214571624	Fighting Terrorism: How Democracies Can Defeat Domestic and International Terrorism	Books	3	5	6	N	N	I Would Have Liked More	If you are preparing to read this book do not set aside too much time for it, speed reader or not it should not take that much time for you.   Basically what the author gives us is a brief history of terrorism in the world and then some steps that a democracy can take to reduce the threat.   If you have ever seen any of his interviews in the past then you probably know what to expect - he is a good speaker yet just a little bit militant.   Everything he comes up with in the book is sound advise and it is interesting that now after September 11th, the U.S. government is taking many of the steps he has laid out.<br />I think the most interesting thing for me really was the foreshadowing to September 11th, this book was written in 1995 and he was right on the mark with his warnings.  It is also very interesting to note that with the info that has come out sense September 11th about what the U.S. law enforcement and intelligence community did know that if they would have followed his plan then one could see that maybe the attack could have been avoided.   Overall, the book is ok.  I wish he would have put more effort into it, a 140-page book is not much to get excited about.   He started off with some history, but only thinly told it.  There was room for him to expand on his ideas.   I came away thinking that the base of the book was a newspaper or magazine article that he stretched into a book.  If you like the author or are interested in the topic then I would suggest you pick up a copy.	2002-08-20
1439957:US	41012519	R9PD0UG5O6HJT	0684827611	172820888	UP FROM CONSERVATISM: Why the Right is Wrong for America	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Good Topic, Interesting but Difficult to Read	If you are planning on reading this book then I would suggest that you get a good nights sleep, fix some strong coffee, and find a comfortable chair.  This is a book that requires more then the average amount of concentration.  I think the author wanted everybody to know that he had a very good education and understanding of the topic, because he certainly did not make the book light and easy to read.  To be honest I was looking for a book that gave me a run down of all the things that a Democrat would dislike about the far right wing of the Republican Party.  The book does provide some of this information, but you need to work at it to get it.  <br />The author spends the majority of his time on the economic issues and how the conservatives differ from the main stream of America.  He also talks a good deal on how the spin is put out by the conservatives to make the average person think that strong political policies that benefit only a few of the richest in America somehow will help the middle class.   Overall the book is interesting and well thought out.  I think maybe the editor should have forced the author to cut out some of the more difficult to work through areas, there are some chapters that have 15 different \\"isums\\" in them, how is one to keep them all straight.  The author did hit some of my frustrations with the conservatism movement.  It is just that I doubt it will ever get a wider audience given its tough to work through writing.	2002-08-16
1443826:US	41012519	R2HJ654HAU3NRY	1560254262	929308491	Al-Qaeda: The Terror Network that Threatens the World (Nation Books)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Great Book, One of the Most Up to Date	Like many people I have read a number of books and articles about Osama Bin Laden and al-Qaeda since September 11th and I must say that this has been the best one to date.  The author is a reporter from the BBC and her book is very much like the high quality reports one expects from the BBC.   There is not a lot of unnecessary emotional descriptions of the events, it is a \\"just the facts\\" type of book that is very interesting. <br />The author takes us through a description on how the al-Qaeda group was formed, the terrorist attacks the group performed in the 90s, and the September 11th event.  The detail she gives us for the planning, set up, and actual attack on the 11th is wonderful.  You really get a good understanding of the events the terrorists went through leading up to them getting on the planes.  She also takes us through the many different items that have come out in the press talking about what the different U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies knew and when they knew it. ... <br />Overall the book is very good.  She does not take sides in the issue of if the U.S. could have stopped the attacks, but she does point out some mistakes that could have prevented some of the attackers from entering the U.S.  She also takes a hard look at the military operations in Afghanistan and does not come out of it with a glowing report of the American forces.   It is a well written and easy to read book that you will find difficult to put down.	2002-08-12
1449070:US	41012519	R16M4A42G3F01N	1859843255	485714475	Private Warriors	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Book, Very Interesting	This was a very interesting and eye opening book. The book is broken into chapters that look at different aspects of the current war / armaments industry.  We get the full picture from arms dealers, armaments companies and their lobbyists to private mercenary companies.   The author gives the arms dealers some extra mystery by introducing us to two of the more successful ones, both of which were ex-Nazis.  We also get a who's who name run down of past government officials who are now employees or lobbyists for large arms manufactures.  I now know where all the cold warriors go after they leave office.<br />The book really leaves the impression with the reader that the military arm of the government is running the rest of the country via the spending allocated to it via the budget.  The author presented the reader with an armload of facts, and left the reader to make his own conclusions.  This is not an anti military propaganda piece, but a good book with an incredible amount of information. One of the more shocking conclusions one takes from the book is the ongoing American policy of continual military mobilization.  I guess this should not be that surprising given that it is a billion dollar business that has a vested interest in making sure the business keeps on coming it's way.  <br />Overall the book was very good and interesting.   It was easy to read and I got through it in only a few days.   My only complaint is that there was no ending chapter, no wrap up - it just kinda ended.    Other then that a great book.	2002-08-07
1451102:US	41012519	R1PM5DO0VS4REL	0743200209	360853587	POTUS Speaks: Finding the Words That Defined the Clinton Presidency	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Light and Possitive	It is a refreshing start to a book when the author admits up front that he is and was a strong supporter of President Clinton.  Unlike many of the books that have come out regarding Clinton, either positive or negative, they all profess to be unbiased and fair, but usually by about 25 pages in you know the track the author is following.  With this book the author admits up front his position so there is never any question as to the slant he was using.  You could read the book and know that the positive side of the situation was being documented, not a sly attempt to malign the President.  <br />As you know from reading the book synopsis, the author was the head speechwriter for Clinton and was with him for almost his entire Presidency.  Unfortunately for me that fact seemed to mean that he was not really involved in any policy decision (I assumed that fact going into the book), but also that he did not share any gossip or good insight in how many decisions were made.   I do not think there was anything detailed in the book that was not already spelled out in other books or in the papers.  The laborious speech writing process Clinton used was interesting and the lack of organization of the early administration was expressed well.   <br />Overall I found the book to be just average, nothing really new.  I felt that best parts of the book dealt with the start of Monica issue and the impeachment process and how the speechwriting team just kept plugging away.  If you are looking for a light book from a Clinton fan then this book will make you happy.  I would suggest that the following books are better: Locked in the Cabinet (by Reich), All Too Human (by Stephenopolis) and Shadow (by Woodward).  All of them give far more detail and I thought they were actually better written.	2002-08-05
1457008:US	41012519	R3K2AP381U7J40	0374286973	601276911	We Wish to Inform You that Tomorrow We Will Be Killed with Our Families: Stories From Rwanda	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Very Shocking Book	After reading all I have on the Holocaust, Cambodia and any other number of wars around the globe I would think that another book on a genocidal incident would not surprise or shock me.   I was wrong.   When I read this book I could not help thinking what is wrong with these people?  Killing opposing soldiers during a war is one thing, but cutting up people with machetes just because of some almost indefinable characteristic is insane.   And just what kind of person can kill babies and toddlers?  These types of acts are just past my ability to comprehend.<br />The book first describes the background on the issue of the two tribes and the mass hatred that was built up by a few people in power.  The author also covers some of the actual events of killing, but does it in a tasteful way - it is not blow by blow but you get the point.  We then get the aftermath of how the world reacted or more accurately, did not react.   Overall a good covering of the topic with just the right amount of detail to keep the book interesting and not get bogged down into the minor issues.  The author does spend a little time focusing the blame on the United States for not rushing in to stop the killings, but that point comes with a large amount of world political baggage that was not addressed in the book. <br />The book will open your eyes to an event that really has not gotten the amount of press it probably should.  How 1 million men, women and children where killed in 3 months is just amazing in its horror.  If you are interested in this incident I would also suggest you read \\"Deliver Us From Evil\\".  This book is a good overview of the UN work as peacekeepers during the 1990's and the horrible different wars that took place during the decade.	2002-07-31
1459691:US	41012519	R2Y3W0I4SLHSQ2	0553110454	343930707	Caring for Your Baby and Young Child : Birth to Age 5	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Great Book - Almost Everything You Need	When may wife I were handed this book we were sure that everything we would ever need to know must be in the book given it's size.  Well it turns out that we were correct, at least there has been nothing we have not be able to find yet.  Being new parents we needed a resource guide, so by both our purchasing and gifts we now have a rather large collection of pregnancy and early childcare books.  We have been reading them and comparing the different books to each other and of course how they relate to our experiences.  This book has turned out to be one of our favorites<br />This is a wonderful resource / guide that provides a wealth of authoritative child-care information in an easy-to-use format. It is a comprehensive book that seems to be able to answer any question we have or provide some guidance for any situation that we run into.  The first part of the book gives you almost everything you need to know on parenting including a very helpful month by month guide for the first year.  The second half of the book includes a complete and easy-to-use emergency first-aid section, plus detailed information about childhood illnesses, immunization schedules and side effects, and a discussion of behavioral issues.<br />You come away from each encounter with book very reassured, it just seams like a smart, sound guide that can help you through all those times when you needs some advice or information.  It is laid out logically and the writing is very understandable.  Overall I would recommend it to any new parents.	2002-07-29
1461838:US	41012519	R4GMBD0G5QB15	0198206143	160384134	World War 1: A History	Books	3	81	94	N	N	Not for the Beginner	Let me add a disclaimer to this review, I am only moderately interested in the First World War and was hoping to get an easy to read and complete history of the conflict to aid my understanding.  I thought this would be a good book to accomplish this task and cover the basics.  What I found was that I had made a mistake.  The book is a collection of essays written by some very competent and well thought of British historians.  It appeared to me that each of them was very familiar with the topic chosen and the essays really were good, well thought out and written documents.  The issue I had is that I was looking for more of a overview of the war, these essays left a lot of the basic information out, thus many times I felt that I was not getting the full story or even that I was lost.         <br />I also have a hang up with books that are written in this method - a different author does each chapter.   I tend to be bothered by the different writing styles and sometimes not complete follow through of the subject / topic.  With these statements made, the book is a well-written document on the war.  The illustrations are very interesting and bring a good deal of life to the topic.  The editor places the pictures and illustrations though out the book.  I found the chapters on the Eastern / Western fronts and the entry of the American's to be the most interesting.     <br />So if you are like me with a marginal interest in the war and are looking for a well-written overview this is not the book for you.   But if you are a WW 1 history buff then you will probably get a lot of enjoyment out of this book and you should disregard my review.	2002-07-26
1464423:US	41012519	REI14O1P6HDY4	0060197617	342120083	The Price of Terror	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not the Full Story	This book is about the 1988 terrorist bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland and the families of the victims attempt to see justice done.   A journalist and one of the lead attorneys write the book in one of the main cases that came out of the incident.  The bombing of the plane is the event that starts this process, but the main focus of the book is the attempts by the families to change the laws in American in order to bring lawsuits against Libya.  The authors go into great detail about the process the families went through to lobby congress to pass through legislation that would create a legal basis for their lawsuits to move into the courts.   The book also talks somewhat about the struggle some of the families had with the coping of the loss of their loved ones.      <br />Overall the writing was good and the story that the authors chose to focus on was done in an organized and complete method, but I was a little disappointed in the overall book.  Because of the focus on the legal / congressional procedural side of the story, I felt that the story was not well paced, it drug a bit.   I was looking for a more complete telling of the story for example learning more about some of the people on the plane.  The authors did touch on a few people very briefly, but that was in an effort to introduce family members that were working on the lawsuits.  I was also looking for a more detailed account of the actual aftermath of the event, the recovery effort in Scotland.  The most disappointing thing for me was the lack of detail on how the investigation was conducted.    <br />The one point that outraged me was the lack of interest the executive branch of the US government took in helping the people out and the insensitive run around they gave the people.   I think my disappointment in this book stems from wanting to read a book different from this one.  If you are interested in the legal struggles the families faced after the event then this is the book foryou.  If you are looking for more of an overall review of the incident then this book will probably disappoint you as much as it disappointed me.	2002-07-24
1467051:US	41012519	RXU2WCGJ28WN5	1582791058	801732847	The Second World War Vol. 6 - Axis Domination (The 2nd World War)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Series for WW 2 Junkie	This series of books provides all the newspaper reports from the UK related to the topic of the volume during World War Two. There are also just a massive amount of photographs. This volume details the entry into the Low Countries, France and Russia by the Germans and then the some on the domination of Japan and a bit on what Italy tried to do.  We also get some interesting reporting on the Africa campaigns.   I did think that the book is more Europe focused, but given that they are UK papers you expect that. There is also an interesting home country twist or slant to the reporting that is probably unique to any paper from a country participating. What would have been interesting is if they could have provided reports from both the UK newspaper and from an U.S. newspaper to get \\"both\\" sides of the story. <br />Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth. I also found the hatred for the Germans to come through in the writing - it is hard to keep that dislike out of the reporting. I think if you are a real die-hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not I would go to the library to view the books. Overall the editors did a good job of presenting the information.	2002-07-22
1469634:US	41012519	ROQ2K2ABB8LXB	0312291183	102991670	Chariots of the Damned: Helicopter Special Operations from Vietnam to Kosovo	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Lots of Good Old Fashion Action	Based on the title of this book you probably know what you are going to get, exciting stories of American military special operations over the past 30 years.  The book delivers just that.  We get basically a rundown of the major American military operations over the past 30 years with a view of how the helicopter forces have been used.   The authors focus on the missions and detail out what took place, the good and the bad.   The real interesting parts for me were the explanations of the Panama, Grenada and Kosovo missions, as I did not have a good understanding of the efforts that took place there.  <br />The authors also throw in a good amount of technical information about the helicopters, the way the missions are planned and the upcoming helicopter technology.  The only two issues I had with the book were I felt the authors could have given me more details - beef the book up a bit.  Secondly you can really tell the difference in skill between the professional author and the military man.   Overall it was a good book that was easy to read.   It would be a good primer to any of the conflicts detailed in the book.	2002-07-19
1472762:US	41012519	R1WBMB98JD7GSS	0195125568	253492645	The Nazi Persecution of the Gypsies	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Writing is a Bit Bland	This book covers the fate of the European Gypsies during the Nazi occupation of Europe.  It came across as a comprehensive and accurate history of this piece of the holocaust.  What stuck me in the reading was that the usual German thoroughness and efficiency did not seem to take hold with their treatment of the Gypsies.  Don't get me wrong, they did a good job in decimating the ranks of the Gypsies, it is just that it always seemed to be an afterthought for the Germans.   The very determined and methodical way the Nazis went after the Jewish population using the legal structure and government propaganda machine was not really used against the Gypsies to the same extent as it was against the Jews.<br />It is interesting that what probably kept the Gypsies under the radar was the fact that they moved around so much.  What is ironic is that this movement was one of the major issues the Germans had against the Gypsies, which in turn brought about the gypsies horrible treatment.  The author tells us that the Gypsies in Europe had been a disliked and persecuted minority for many centuries.  Overall the author details the methods the Nazis went after the Gypsies, which followed the same path as the Jews.   First they started to harass them with laws which also raised the dislike of the Gypsies among the population.   Then the Nazis started to gather the Gypsies into camps to control them and then sent them on to the Concentration Camps with all the horrors of medical experiments, starvation and gas chambers.<BR> <BR>Overall the book is an interesting read and it seams to be a well-researched work.  At times the writing can be a little dry, but overall it holds your attention.  The average reader might not get a lot out of the book, but if you are interested in the holocaust or World War 2 then this will be a good addition to your collection.	2002-07-17
1474561:US	41012519	RFYF10E289Y9E	0684841274	868503442	Abuse of Power: The New Nixon Tapes	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A Look at a Sad Man	If you are interested in how the Nixon and his staff handled the Watergate issue then this is a wonderful look into the private conversations that took place.  The author does a good job of setting most of the conversations up with comments as to what the conversation covers.  There are also some explanations at the beginnings of the major areas of the book.  I would have preferred a little bit more editing out of some of the conversations, but they do serve a point in the overall book.<br />What struck me the most was just how desperate Nixon kept getting.  I almost started to think that maybe he even believed the lies he was telling.  It was so fascinating to see how he would formulate a \\"cover\\" story and then keep presenting it to staff to see if they would replace their understanding of the events with his.  What is sad is the amount of denial that Nixon was sliding into at the end.  He was justifying his actions so hard, I started to think that he was trying to change reality with his force of will.<br />Many of the conversations are very revealing and interesting.  I wonder if at times Nixon forgot he was being taped?  Why would anyone think that what he was up to would stand the test of time and be thought of as acceptable behavior.  You get a good understanding of why Nixon and his family fought so hard to keep the tapes private.  In my opinion, these tapes have set back all the work Nixon did after leaving office to rebuild his reputation.  My only warring would be that this should not be the first or only book on Watergate that you read.  It will help you if have read something else to give you some back ground on the conversations.  Overall the book is interesting and a good addition to your Nixon collection.	2002-07-15
1478185:US	41012519	R3E8XQXWMSL7MC	1567511945	280935784	Rogue State: A Guide to the World's Only Superpower	Books	3	28	40	N	N	Interesting Info - Choppy Writing	If you are a strong believer in that there is nothing wrong the U.S. can do then you will probably get rather aggravated with this book.  The author has provided a run down of the many different times the U.S. has used the foreign policy concerns of the U.S. as an excuse for intrusions to downright warfare in other countries across the globe.  Given the number of items and events the author is detailing he has had to provide brief explanations of the events and even more limited comments on the overall political situations that drove the decisions.  The book could be used as a reference more then a heavy historical review of any particular topic.         <br />Overall it is an interesting and somewhat disturbing book.  What the U.S. has done all over the world in pursuit of peace is really a very negative indictment of our democracy.  The old adage about power corrupting comes to mind.   The author does slide into some anti government name calling which lessens the impact of the overall book.   I would have also liked a few more sources on some of the information, relying on one source for some of these wide-ranging events gave the impression that the information was coming from the fringe.  And one last nit picking item, the premises of the book is the overall U.S. foreign policies that negatively effect other nations in the world, therefore I did not think the author should have kept throwing in internal American police force items and internal military staffing items.  They were interesting, but would be better suited in another book.   It left me with the impression that he was trying to beef up the book with any anti government / establishment comments he could find.  At one point I thought we were going to fall into the whole anti gun control / Ruby Ridge - Waco arguments.      <br />The one thought I was left with was why are there not other countries / detractors bring more of these items up on the world stage?  I would think that a competent airing of someof these issues in the world media would make the current government think before it pulls the trigger on another intervention i.e. invasion of Iraq.	2002-07-12
1480573:US	41012519	R1ZBYDG7M68A3B	0375700617	184518587	Locked in the Cabinet	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Well Written, Casual Book	When I heard about this book I was a little dubious of it, after all it was a book written by the Harvard Economics Professor turned Secretary of Labor.  How entertaining could the book possibly be?  It turns out that my initial fears of boredom were unfounded.  This is a very interesting, casual and humors insight into the political process in Washington DC.  The author gives the reader a look into the process of a non-politician with very strong viewpoints working in an unorganized administration that continues to move father to the right of the original platform.      <br />This book is not a deep review of the policies put in place during the first Clinton term nor is it a detailed insight into the mundane labor department.    It is an interesting look at what the Labor Secretary does from the campaign trail, political conventions to press conferences, radio talk shows and cabinet meetings.  The authors sharp and sometimes sarcastic sense of humor gives the book an extra kick that makes it work.  The author also had been a long time friend of the President so he did get some of the inside info.  You even get a little bit of his \\"Fight for the Small Guy\\" thoughts throughout the book that even if you do not agree with them, they do raise interesting points.          <br />Overall it is a well-written and easy to read review of his four years in Washington DC.   It will provide you a very interesting look into the funnier, frustrating and sometimes nastier parts of the political process then you would have thought a Labor Secretary would have been involved in.  Overall it is a great book that you will get through in a very short period of time.	2002-07-10
1486788:US	41012519	R2DBR4BYUQR2E6	0871137690	162983117	My War Gone By, I Miss It So	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Book	This is probably the best written book documenting a war that I have read, not because of research or completeness in the story, but the writing itself was just that good.  The book is the personal account written by a bored young man that decides that maybe being a war photographer will bring some excitement to his life.  This said he goes off to the Bosnian war during the early to mid 1990's.  The author does not skip any of the brutality that made up this war, he talks about the war crimes committed, the death and destruction that takes place in normal combat, firefights and getting shelled, and the toll all of this takes on him and his peers.  <br />The author makes a point that he was not just another war correspondent, but an ex soldier that was more of a war junkie or thrill seeker then journalist.  He also describes how he did not cover the war like most other journalists; he went right into the battles with troops from either side.  He does not think much of the company journalists that only ventured out of their hotel rooms to get the latest update from the UN headquarters.  He also states that for himself it was impossible to remain objective with some much pain and evil going on around him. <br />The real power of the book comes from the author's ability to describe the incredible amount of human cruelty and suffering in the Bosnian war.  He really makes you understand what war crimes and ethnic cleansing are all about, not just words but people that have the worst other humans can think up perpetrated against them.    The book does not detail out why the war was taking place nor the world politics that were going on at the time, but that is not its focus.  It is a very good account of the war through his eyes and if you are interested in the war at all, this should be one of the books you read.	2002-07-05
1488394:US	41012519	R1HOGRYNRCHMCU	0894805770	597324596	What to Expect the First Year	Books	2	117	195	N	N	Not The Best	...  To start off with I do not understand why this series is so popular - is it the good title or just that they have been around some time? When we found out that my wife was pregnant, my wife and I went out and got an arm full of books both pregnancy and the first year.  We have been reading them and comparing the different books to each other and of course how they relate to our experiences.  With this as our background we both have found that this series is not what we ar looking for or would recommend.   <br />The positive side is that the book it did seam to provide some good information in a reference method. It also gave us a general idea on what was going on and some of the things to look for.  It was well written and it did not get dull or over laden with technical medical terms.  It also did seem to be comprehensive covering almost everything you would need to know the first year.  The book can easily be used as a reference book due to the good layout and well-organized chapters.  It is also easy to understand.  We felt the best section is the guide to common childhood illnesses and how to treat them. <br />What we did not like is the authors of the book write in a style that seams to be one of an overbearing adult wagging her finger at you. I don't think we needed or cared for the tone the book had about the authors militant views on what not to do.  At times it did seam to be somewhat alarming and it made certain aspects of parenthood sound like a burdensome chore.  They also did seam to be convinced that the development time frames were non-negotiable, if your child did something too soon or a little late then watch out, because there could be trouble ahead.  Overall, it is a nice reference book with an overbearing tone.  If being talked down to aggravates you then I would look someplace else.	2002-07-03
1491502:US	41012519	R2SOOACA1KW0N9	0684844168	38409771	Way Out There in the Blue: Reagan, Star Wars and the End of the Cold War	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Big Topic, Good Effort	This book may have been a bit misleading in its dust jacket description, it is a step by step history of the SDI project.  It does not offer a detailed description of the politics around the end of the cold war, just an overview.   To be fair to the author, there is just too much information involved to cover both the SDI project and the fall of the USSR so the author might have bitten off a bit much.  She does a wonderful job in explaining the SDI process; the book is well written and is easy to read - a challenge when taking on complex international politics and weapons development.  The author does go through some of Reagan's history, a bit of republican history, and some history on the Carter presidency in relation to SDI.   She really relied on memoirs, interviews and articles from the people involved in the projects or policies within the Reagan Administration so it seams as though most of the info is straight from the horses mouth.  <br />It is not possible to completely tell the SDI story without also talking about the American foreign policy through the 80's and the author does a good job with the limited space.   Her only mistake may have been to include the few anti Reagan items in the book.  I say this not in that her comments were overly harsh or out of line, just that it turns some of the focus to the book to the negative statements and the strong Reagan supporters have come out to denounce the book.   I thought she was fair in her treatment of many of the players in Reagan administration, I have read a number of the books that she sites as sources and I could not find any misstatements.   The fact that all of the issues she does raise about Reagan come from people whom worked in the Reagan White House or on his campaigns, adds more weight to the overall thesis that Reagan did not have a good understanding of the SDI project. <br />Overall the book is a fascinating look at the SDI process and Reagan's relationships to his staff in regard to this program.   I would have liked a bit more detail on how the 1st Bush administration handled the hand over from Reagan, but overall the book is very informative and well written.  As SDI seams to be back in the headlines it is worth reading it if only to understand what has brought us to the current point.	2002-07-01
1496243:US	41012519	R2YMX3QWSINN21	0684804077	8443176	Taking Charge: The Johnson White House Tapes, 1963-1964	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Editing and Footnotes Make it an Interesting Book	I have general interest in the Presidency so I was interested in this book to see what the unedited / un-spun conversations in the Oval office are really like.  I was not disappointed.  We get the whole range of day to day items that are covered by LBJ, from arranging to get free haircuts for his family and inexpensive western clothing for his staff to setting up the Warren Commission and pushing his civil rights bills.  The items that I found the most interesting were the conversations around the assassination of JFK and the Vietnam War.  The calls with J. E. Hover in the days after the event are interesting to the point of gripping.  You get true emotion from the conversations. <br />What made the book really work was the great editing and very helpful lead comments and footnotes by the author.  I was somewhat concerned that I would get lost in the less then precise conversations between familiar people, but the footnotes add all the clarity one would need to understand who is speaking and about what.   I also found it very interesting to see LBJ working the phones; he does everything from out right [bottom] kissing to demanding.  All of it is surrounded by his down home Texas language that seams to bring the office of the President a little closer to home. <br /> For the general political reader like myself there were a few slow spots in the book, talking about minor political scandals of the day was not interesting to me, but overall these are few and do not take away from the overall book.   I would not suggest this to be your first book on LBJ or the politics around the Vietnam War, but if you are interested in the topics you will not be disappointed.	2002-06-27
1497180:US	41012519	R35VOWLYWHPGXC	002930380X	99845192	After Tet: The Bloodiest Year in Vietnam	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Good Overview	This book covers the year time period after the Tet offensive during the Vietnam War.  Given the title of the book I was prepared for a page after page description of savage combat.  What I found was that the book was not just a description of one firefight after another, but a comprehensive account of the Vietnam War effort during this one-year period of time.   The author does a great job of describing the experience of American soldiers in the Vietnam War during the year after Tet. <br />The author provides the reader with a brief, but complete and readable historical background for the war up to 1968.  He also gives us very clear and vivid descriptions of the battles and everyday life of the foot solders.  We also get a good run down of the South Vietnamese corruption that worked against the American effort to save their country.  This was the part that really surprised me the most, it seamed like the South Vietnamese wanted and needed the war to continue to keep the profitable drug trafficking, smuggling and protection rackets going.  What made me furious were the details of the United States supplied food, gasoline, and equipment that the South Vietnamese were selling to the North Vietnamese. <BR>  <BR>The author also spends some time talking about the drug use by the soldiers and the difficult race relations.  This section of the book was not as surprising given that was the same environment in the states at that time.    Overall, this book is a well-written and informative, but not a rundown of overly descriptive bloody fights.   He does a wonderful job in describing the environment, how hot it was the difficulties in moving through the country, the differences in the front line and the support areas.   This is a good book and a great way to introduce yourself to the Vietnam War.	2002-06-26
1499385:US	41012519	R1HUPC5CQZFEBJ	1582791031	867602633	The Second World War Vol. 4 - Sand of Blood (The 2nd World War)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Series	This series of books provides all the newspaper reports from the UK related to the topic of the volume during World War Two. There are also just a massive amount of photographs. This volume details the war in Africa with a good amount of reporting of US and UK only events. I did think that the book is more Europe focused, but given that they are UK papers you expect that. There is also an interesting home country twist or slant to the reporting that is probably unique to any paper from a country participating. What would have been interesting is if they could have provided reports from both the UK newspaper and from an U.S. newspaper to get \\"both\\" sides of the story. <br />Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth. I also found the hatred for the Germans to come through in the writing - it is hard to keep that dislike out of the reporting. I think if you are a real die-hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not I would go to the library to view the books. Overall the editors did a good job of presenting the information.	2002-06-24
1504759:US	41012519	R2WUM5Z5BU2KGB	0399523308	253913426	The Girlfriends' Guide to Surviving the First Year of Motherhood	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Light Humor	Once we found out that my wife was pregnant we went out and got an arm full of books on pregnancy and child care and this was one of them. We first concentrated on the pregnancy books (obviously), but once our child was born we started in on the childcare books.  The book in this series dealing with pregnancy was by far both my wife's and my favorite of all the pregnancy books we bought. It was full of humor and smart comments that took some of the edge off any of the worries we had.  With that being said we were both looking forward to reading this book being the next in the series, unfortunately we were a bit disappointed.   The book was a bit of a let down on the humor side, almost like she used her best material in the pregnancy book and now she is rushing these to market to capitalize on her fame.  <br />Just to be clear we understood that this book was just going to be a humorous rant type book so the negative items she details did not get us depressed or change the way we feel - it was just part of the humor.  This series is not a detail filled, everything you need to know type book, it is best if you approach it as what it is, a nice humor filled time killer to make you laugh.  We did both think there were a few helpful and interesting facts, but again this is not Dr Sears.  Be warned that her sense of humor is one that could be construed as a bit on the negative side - focusing on weight loss, sleep loss and other unpleasant and difficult items.  If this type of tone in a book would effect you then you may want to look elsewhere.  If you are looking for witty, tongue-in-cheek book to read for fun then this does fit the bill, but for big laughs go with her book on pregnancy.	2002-06-19
1507009:US	41012519	RWV24VIM46JFT	0871138344	570501457	The Bureau and the Mole: The Unmasking of Robert Philip Hanssen, the Most Dangerous Double Agent in FBI History	Books	2	10	11	N	N	I Was Disappointed	To say that this is a brief study of the Hanssen spy case would be similar to saying that it gets a bit warm in Death Valley.  If you are looking at this book you probably know a little about the Hanssen spy case and are hoping to find a well-written book to cover the details.  Well, this is a well-written book; it flows very well, which is due to the fact that the author is talented.  On the other hand the details of the Hanssen spy case are few and far between.   It really seamed to me that Vice just strung together all of the articles he wrote for the newspaper and called it a book.  <br />The fact that the book was light on the details was a disappointment to me because of the fact that Hanssen has been described in the press as maybe one of the best spy's to have worked for Russia.  Also the author interviewed so many of Hanssen's friends, family, co-workers and FBI agents on the case, I expected a book full of details.   I wanted more on how Hanssen got away with it, what were all of his procedures / trade craft, how did the Russian's work with him, what kind of damage did he do to the US.   The book covers the surface on these items, but not enough depth to make it interesting.  The author does spend about 40% of the book on a long description on the career of FBI Director Louis Freeh and the major FBI cases during the 90's.  Although this would be an interesting book in its self, it seamed to me that the author used it here as filler to give the book some size.  <br />The author (in another attempt to increase the size of the book) tries to explain why Hanssen did it.  To explain the motives of Hanssen, the author gives us an overview of Hanssen's childhood, a review of his rather conservative religious lifestyle, and some almost laughable psychological analysis on the personality reasons behind the betrayal.  I also thought that the 20 pages of appendixes at the back of the book a little redundant and pretty unnecessary, especially the one detailing his Internet postings regarding his sexual fantasies.  What could have been very helpful in these pages was a detailed analysis of the information given to the Russians and how it would hurt the US, not the slapdash attempt made by the author.  One last gripe, why no footnotes or source / bibliography notes?  <br />Overall I came away from the book thinking it was a disappointment.  It was readable and you will not have to spend a great deal of time on it, but it really is not worth the time unless you just want a light, overview with some porn thrown in for good measure.   No wonder the author bought 100,000 copies of it himself to get the sales ranking up there, I do not think it would have done it on its own.	2002-06-17
1510036:US	41012519	RWHC70BGG85Y2	089526272X	873277344	A Republic, Not an Empire	Books	4	19	21	N	N	This Book Surprised Me	I have to admit that when I picked up this book I was expecting a little more fire and brimstone preaching from the Isolationist, Protectionist, Ultra Conservative former Presidential Candidate.  I thought, given the current world affairs and the increasing obligations the US is getting into, that this book would provide an interesting dogma filled rant akin to a Denis Miller performance.  To my surprise I found this book to be a well-written history lesson that detailed the US foreign policy from 1776 to 1999.  <br />The fact that the book is well-written was not a surprise to me, the author has been a wordsmith for Presidents and a public figure for the past 30 plus years so he can put a sentence or two together. What did surprise me was the evenhanded, well constructed and complete American history run down that makes up the meat of the book.   Pat covered it all, from the issues surrounding the war of 1812, the World Wars, and all the way up to the mess in Yugoslavia.  He clearly explains the politics involved in each of the decisions and draws the conclusions to the historical significance of each of them.   He also includes two sections of the book that covered his campaign stance on foreign policy.   Of the two sections the issue of NATO and expansion into the Baltic States and Russia are proving to be incorrect, but to give him credit, history is difficult to predict and at least he was thinking through the issue and articulating it.  Who knows, maybe his concerns somehow influenced the current policy makers, which have created the current outcome.    <br />The authors thesis is that the founding fathers of American wanted the U.S. to stay out of all entangling arraignments with other countries that would include the U.S. in other peoples wars where the interests of the U.S. were not at issue.   Given some of the issues we face today, this statement looks to be sound advice.  American interests should only drive U.S. foreign policy.   The America founding fathers never envisioned the U.S. to be an empire to the contrary, it was one of the political issues so many people were leaving their homelands to avoid.  If George Washington were here today, what would he think about over 200,000 American troops in bases from Central America, through Europe and the Middle East all the way through Asia?  Buchanan makes the obvious point that many countries have tried this (the UK, Spain, USSR, Portugal, France, Japan etc) and absolutely none have been successful.  All that came from these empires is that the country going down this path bankrupts itself, losses many of it citizens in other peoples wars, and ends up loosing more power then if it would not have ventured out.    <br />I had heard the claims that the author had somehow wrote that he was on the side of the Nazis in the book, as a matter of fact this was quite an up roar in the campaign.  Either these people read a different book from me or it was a typical half researched over blown item by the press pumped up by Buchanans political detractors.   I found none of the anti Semitism or pro Nazis comments in the book that was commented on in the press.  Overall, I felt this was a very good book that gives a good user-friendly history lesson on American foreign policy.   The comments are even handed and may even be more relevant today then they were in 1999.	2002-06-14
1512236:US	41012519	R2O627DIFGW61D	0809229609	816519696	The Parent Soup A-To-Z Guide to Your New Baby: Advice That Works from Parent's Who've Been There - From Anger to Pacifiers to Weaning	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Great Layout, Good Details - Even a Dad Can Use It	I may be one of the few, if only fathers to add in a review of this book, but as my wife thought the book was a good overview I picked it up myself. Once we found out that my wife was pregnant we went out and got an arm full of books in an effort to compete with the library of Congress. This book was one of the better buys. This book was one of my wife's and my favorites of all the child care books we bought. We both thought it was full of very helpful and interesting information that we wanted or needed. You really understand what is going on with each new issue as it comes up. <br />The book has a good deal of important advice and survival tips that may not be in more straight-laced books on the topic. The book is very easy to use with the topics in an easily found layout. The book is laid out A - Z and in bold across top of page with the topics cross referenced to help you find what you are looking for more easily. The writing is clear and to the point, no working through page after page of Dr speak. The book was unique in that if offered advice from parents, pediatricians and the La Leche League. <br />I found that I liked reading what other parents had to say about the different topics. It was nice to see what worked and did not work for other parents. The Doctors comments were also very helpful and well written - not dry and dull. Not only are there tips on your new born, but there is also advice for the parents as well. As expecting parents moving into full-blown parenting, this has been a great book. THe one item of caustion I would add is that this is not the only book you will need, it does not go into the detail that a Dr Sears book does.  I think expecting and new parents should all get a copy of this book.	2002-06-12
1513932:US	41012519	R3TLCS3I67E33M	0374186278	318030765	Lifting the Fog of War	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very Interesting Given the Current War in Afghanistan	This was a very interesting book because of both the insights of the author and the details he provides the reader.   As the book jacket tells you, the author is the former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff so he has the experience necessary to make the book credible just on the face of it. What was a pleasant surprise is that the authors have written a very readable and enjoyable book, which can be difficult detailing this subject matter.  The main premise of the book is that the US military and the Generals in charge often plan and fight the next war like the last war.  This plan many times meets with initial problems and pain.  Given this and the reduction in funding the US military could be in trouble if they do not keep moving forward with technology as the base of spending.  <br />The author goes on to document that there has been a major shift in whom we will fight and how the fight will take place (due to the fall of the USSR).  Because of these changes the American military needs to reorganize and regroup almost from the ground up to meet the new threats and types of warfare that they will face in the future.  The author details that the largest revolution in warfare for American is the advantage we have with the high tech weapons we can use.   With this advanced technology, the US can go a long way in \\"Lifting\\" the fog of war on the battlefield.  What is interesting is the author is describing unmanned aircraft that have been so much in the news recently with the current war in Afghanistan.  The author details that the US currently has a head start, but we need to continually push forward on the technology side in order to continue to increase / maintain our advantage.<br />The author details the main problems that have come about with the separate military areas for the US and the problems that come up when they are to work together.   The book details the different weapons systems that could work together very effectively if only the communication and training for truly \\"joint\\" operations was in place.  He gives the reader a very convincing argument that the most dangerous issue for the military is this lack of integrated systems and communications that would allow all branches to work together seamlessly.  <br />The one advantage of reading this book now is the information we are seeing reported about the current war on terrorism in Afghanistan.  It is interesting that some of the reporting supports the authors views and other reporting who make you think the book was a bit over extended in the negative.  The author's overly gloomy view of the military if major change is not taken may be a bit much, but he does back a lot of his comments up with thoughtful discussions on the points.   Overall the book is an interesting, well-written book that is full of facts.  If you are interested in the direction the US military will be taking in the next 10 - 20 years this book may be a large part of the road map.	2002-06-10
1520124:US	41012519	R1KYK8MMLI2DYI	0316511390	939227109	Sotheby's: Bidding for Class	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Some People Have Too Much Money	Who would have thought that the upright, high class and very proper world of high class auctions was really a swamp of scams and cheats.  I actually thought that the dust jacket with it's Kitty Kelly type tabloid write up was just a way to get the average reader to pick the book up - - who would have thought that the lead up was only the tip of the iceberg.   This book had just a ton of super rich people getting scammed, cheated and fighting over the artwork that these auction houses are selling.  I think everybody of normal means takes a guilty pleasure in watching a super rich person take it in the shorts and this book details a few of them plus a nice history of the high class auction world.  <br />The book provides a detailed account of the start and rise of the Sotheby's auction house.   The author has also through in a good amount of detail of the art objects that are being sold - at times this made the book drag a bit for me, but it was required given that was the underling currency of the business.  He does a good job of teaching the reader how the process works and what went into the history of creating the process.  We even get a good amount of gossip that is written in a way that makes you feel ok about reading tabloid filler.<br />The book starts out with the Jackie Kennedy auction and who bought what.  He really makes these people out to be less then inteligent, so much so you wonder how they made their money at all.  We also get a good amount of detail on the massive amounts that were paid for artwork in the 90'' and what has happened to them, and a nice detailed account how Sotheby's \\"Makes the Market\\" on the items.   If it were the securities industry they would be in jail.   Overall this is an interesting and fun book to read that will take you no time at all to complete.	2002-06-05
1522150:US	41012519	R3E060BHVIRUAG	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	2	50	105	N	N	Just The Facts??	After reading this book I am wondering if either the author was a ex girl friend of the President or maybe lost some money in the Whitewater real estate investment.  I was hoping to learn something from the book even though it was known to me that the author was a detractor of the Clinton's.  Unfortunately, the unproven, half-truth accusations that the book is full of makes one question if any of the information contained in the book is the full story or even factual.  The author goes out of her way to include nasty comments in almost every sentence - little words and phases that are better used to describe Stalin or Hitler then even the combination of the worst traits of all the American Presidents combined.<br />There are two overriding themes to the book, one is that the Clinton's took advantage of everything possible during their term in the White House and that both the Clinton's are power hungry.  She uses as justification of this theory that Clinton rode around on Air Force One, that he helped with DNC fund-raising efforts, and that he went on a number of foreign trips.  Unfortunately, the author either forgets that all other Presidents do the same thing or she only thinks Clinton should not have.  Also when has it been a crime that people in the U.S. are power hungry - - when was the last President elected that was not power hungry - Adams?   The author just does a bad job of documenting research that would add credence to her over the top claims. <br />There is some interesting information on the pardons, which probably deserves a look to see if this is a power that needs to continue with the Presidents going forward.  It is just that if you are looking for a fair and balanced review of the last year of the Clinton presidency this book will not give it to you.   The \\"outrageous\\" items detailed are unfortunately, part of the current American political landscape and for each item identified one could look into the history of the last 5 Presidents and find those same issues.   I doubt this book will stand up to the passage of time as a well documented and researched historical review.  What the book does give you is a tabloid style review geared to the person that already has a negative opion of the Clinton's.  If you fall into this category the book will probably be very enjoyable for you.	2002-06-03
1525333:US	41012519	RJQBJRPTI8XS6	068483233X	190676249	Deliver Us from Evil: Peacekeepers, Warlords and a World of Endless Conflict	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Review of Hell in the 90's	This book is a good overview of the UN work as peace keepers during the 1990's and the horrible different wars that took place during the decade.  Cambodia, Somalia, Rwanda, Bosnia, Kosovo, Sierra Leone, East Timor, and Iraq are the locations / wars the author takes us through.  The descriptions of what these people did to each other are almost more then can be believed.  The author also provides a good overview with each conflict as to why it was happening and the internal politics, which kept the killing going.  He also gives us just enough details on the people effected that you really get a feel for the catastrophic impact the wars / slaughters have had on them.  It really makes you wonder how people can do this to their neighbors.  <br />The author also describes the deployment and efforts that the peacekeepers and aid works go through in these war zones.  It is truly an aggravating reading experience to see the amount of internal and world politics that slows down the deployment of the soldiers to the point that thousands more people die waiting for the help.  With that said that book also makes a very good point that the ideas and people that drive the push for peacekeepers are doing so in a misguided effort.  The peacekeepers are solders and solders are not law enforcement officers, they are not trained or equipped for this function.  The international and internal UN politics are so vast and ingrained that once a direction is proposed it is often too late in the execution, not well thought out, and ends without a plan for continued safety or improvements.   The effect is often that the situation that brought the peacekeepers to the area quickly returns once the solders go home.      <br />The book also covers a review of the politics and diplomacy that occurred during the 1990's in the world covering these events.  We get an inside, but abbreviated view of these politics of the nations that are members of the UN Security Council.   The author spent of gooddeal of time with the current UN Secretary General Kofi Annan so we get a lot of detail from his point of view.  The author also gives us a few insights into some of the other world leaders involved in these issues.  The pressures that the UN Secretary General faces trying to get pledges of funds, personnel, and approval for peacekeeping operations are very interesting and one wonders how anything gets done at all.    <br />I thought the author was letting a little of his own politics or views into the writing by his comments that detailed the deliberate lack of intervention by the United States.  The U.S. does surfer from not always having a clear path to follow in these type of issues, but I felt the author was trying to lay out that if the U.S. took the lead then many of the negative issues with peacekeeping would disappear.  I would have liked the author to have included some maps of the parts of the world discussed.   The fact geek in me would have liked to have seen a list of the UN peacekeeping missions they have done sense inception and a more in depth discussion on the criteria for choosing who sends men.   <br />After reading this book you will understand that sending in United Nations peacekeepers means there is a huge mess that probably will not be resolved quickly.   This is an interesting book and well worth it if you are interested in the topic.	2002-05-31
1526902:US	41012519	R384MPEUJOUN5X	1582791023	840340736	The Second World War Vol. 3 - Under Siege (The 2nd World War)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Complete History via the Newpapers	This series of books provides all the newspaper reports from the UK related to the topic of the volume during World War Two. There are also just a massive amount of photographs. This volume details the entry into Russia by the Germans and then the some on the domination of Japan.  I did think that the book is more Europe focused, but given that they are UK papers you expect that. There is also an interesting home country twist or slant to the reporting that is probably unique to any paper from a country participating. What would have been interesting is if they could have provided reports from both the UK newspaper and from an U.S. newspaper to get \\"both\\" sides of the story. <br />Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth. I also found the hatred for the Germans to come through in the writing - it is hard to keep that dislike out of the reporting. I think if you are a real die-hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not I would go to the library to view the books. Overall the editors did a good job of presenting the information.	2002-05-29
1530333:US	41012519	RHTQ1CCRMZ45T	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Fun with Facts and Stats	This was my first Michael Moore book and I only picked it up because of all the attention it was getting.  I must say that I enjoyed the book, it was funny and smart - maybe a bit over the top at times, but it is a fine piece of entertainment.   The nice thing is that he just does not blindly support the party line - whatever party he may be supporting, he takes on the Democrats as well as the Republicans.  He also does ask some very good questions and raises some good points, but the over the top outrageous claims tends to probably hurt the more important points he is making.  <br />The first chapter takes on the 2000 presidential election and there is absolutely no question as to where he stands.   He is on the fast track to years of IRS audits given the venom he spouts at the Bush camp.  He also provides some rather madding facts that make one wonder what happen to open free elections, it sounds like the kind of stuff you hear about in banana republics in the hot steamy parts of South America.  He then moves all over the place from the \\"White Man\\" cause all the worlds problems to the fact that Mother Nature is killing off the men.   He gives us some valid comments on the Middle East and how to solve the problems - unfortunately the powers in the area will never take his suggestions.  <br />The book is full of facts, but there is not an in-depth look at any of the topics thus we get a one sided argument that is no different then the right wing call in shows.   This is an entertainment book that is meant to provide some facts and get the reader to think.   The author does not pull any punches and is as far from being politically correct as one could get.   This is what makes the book so fun to read.  If you are the anti government type then you will absolutely love every single page. The author really is angry and the government as a whole and the conservative right.  Overall it is a fun book and if you are a bit of a liberal you will walk away from it less aggravated then a conservative would.	2002-05-27
1533384:US	41012519	RI9T00ADLIDPH	0767909186	819136199	You Got Nothing Coming: Notes From a Prison Fish	Books	5	12	15	N	N	One of the Best - A Great Book	Wow, I have read a number of non-fiction and fiction books about the American prison experience and this by far has been the best.  The reason it is the best is due to the skill of the author and not that the tail told is all that different or unique.  The book is the memoir of the first year in a Nevada state prison that a middle class white color executive spends for the self-defense killing a less then upstanding member of the community. <br />The author starts the book with his time in jail just after he has been convicted and ends the book with the story of what happened in his case.   He does a wonderful job in describing not only the physical location, smell and feel of the prison, but more importantly he really lets you get to know many of the other inmates with him.  He also walks us through a number of the different experiences he has - - walking in the yard, getting his first set of sheets, the help program meeting etc.  He peppers the whole test with the unique prison culture and language that makes you feel that you could be dropped in the middle of it and have a good idea of what was going on.  <br />A pleasant surprise of the book is the authors quick wit and extremely funny dark humor.  Kept wondering how someone in this location could maintain his humor but he did.  He also figures out a way to make himself sympathetic to the reader in a very causal way - you do not even know it is happening and it is not an in your face feel sorry for me story.   One reason you do get to like him is that he also details out the failures he has had in life with his family and his problems with drugs and alcohol. He does not try to come off and a guy a hair away from priesthood that was in the wrong place at the wrong time.   <br />This was a very interesting book that I just could not put down. The humor and horror of the story kept me involved all the way through.   I would recommend this book to anyone that is interested in the American prison system.   If you areinterested in any other books I would suggest \\"Newjack\\" for a look at what it is like to be a prison guard and \\"Going up river\\" for a look at the whole industry today.  Buy this book now.	2002-05-23
1536649:US	41012519	R1LQ227W9H38JI	0679432485	130670951	A World Transformed	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very Detailed	This book is the step by step discussion of the major foreign affaire issues that took place during first Bush presidency.  To say this book is detailed would be to say the Battan Death March was a \\"tough hike\\".   The book covers the years 1989 to 1991, more specifically (only) the massacre at Tiananmen Square, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the collapse of the USSR, and the Gulf War.   The book is written in an interesting way - Bush and Scowcroft give their views on each of the issues and then combine for a third voice that gives more of a back ground commentary.  We also get some of Bush's \\"dear diary\\" entries, which given he wrote the book, I wonder if we saw the original entries.  This style does make the book more readable, although Scowcroft's writing could compete in excitement with watching grass grow.  <br />Bush does come across as an excellent statesman in dealing with world leaders.   He presents a warm down home type of President that worked with some of the leaders he dealt with.   The reader also gets an interesting insight into some of the leaders that Bush dealt with (Hussain, Gorbachev and Kohl) to name a few.  In the details of the Gulf War, he also comes off as being a skillful negotiator that kept the war effort together.   I think it also shows that to be a good world leader you must develop personal relationships with other world leaders.  Bush comes off as such a good foreign policy man that it almost adds to the impression that he had no clue what was going on at home.    <br />Again, the book was full of details - - too much dry detail at times.  Some of the talk about how minor issues were resolved could have been left on the cutting room floor and the book would have been the better for it.   I did feel that we were short-changed on the Tiananmen Square uprising in China.  I also felt that there was just too much time spent on Russia that could have been spent covering the Panama Invasion or the start of the Somalia effort.  Overall, the book was very detailed and interesting.   As it was almost a memoir, I would look to a few other books on the topics to form of full opion of the issues, as the author's may have been a bit bias.	2002-05-21
1541516:US	41012519	R2NC2Y1YK54EEW	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Nice Overview with Interesting Details	This large book attempts to cover the history and setup of the National Security Agency (NSA).   This is the department of the government that sucks up all the radio and phone signals out there in the world and looks for intelligence valuable for the US and it's allies.  The author does a good job of providing a high level view of the NSA operation; but I found the best parts of the book were the detailed chapters on the Powers U2 Shoot down over the USSR, the Cuban Missile crises, the USS Liberty attack by Israel, and the USS Pueblo attack by the North Korean's.  We also get a nice overview of the workings of the NSA, the set up of the complex and a good direction of the size of the organization.<br />The author provided a nice amount of detail on the U2 shoot down over the USSR and the reaction of Ike to the situation.   I found the additional details of the other intelligence gathering missions over the USSR also interesting and somewhat scary given they were all playing with live ammo i.e. nuclear missiles.  Bamford also slipped in a little intrigue with the assumption that Powers U2 was never designed to let him eject safely.  As this section of the book was very interesting I did not find the solid connection to the NSA only - it looked to me that this operation have a number of departments of the government and military involved and no one branch could claim it for themselves.   <br />I felt that author also provided a nice amount of detail on the Cuban Missile crises.  I learned a lot in this section of the book; the author enhanced the image of JFK saving the day.   He also included some very startling plans that the CIA was working on to start a series of terrorist attacks on the US and blame Cuba.   Anything to get a war started to get rid of Castro.  The author also provides a great run down of the Pueblo attack, what lead up to it and how the Navy let it happen.    I would have liked a bit more linkage to the information that was lost and how that losseffected the US going forward.   <br />The most I learned in this book came from his coverage of the Israeli attack on the USS Liberty.  Talk about unflattering to the Israeli's, the author claims that the Israeli's attacked the ship to cover up war crimes they were performing on the Egyptian's.  There are a ton of details and the author does a great job of taking the reader through the whole attack and some of the political cover up and fall-out.  <br />I was disappointed in the author's coverage of the Vietnam War, the Cold War, and the political use of the NSA information.  He could have done more or put more detail in these sections and left out some of the fluff.   Given the current climate it would also have been nice for the author to provide some information on how the NSA could help in the war on terrorism.  I also would have liked some maps and pictures to be able to better familiarize myself with the different parts of the world the author was covering.     Also what was with the chapter headings, sure after you are reading the chapter you understand the cute little reference, but come on - this is a non-fiction book, not some romance novel, give me chapter headings that mean something.  <br />My biggest complaint of the book would be the jumpy nature of the set up.   The author seamed to bounce from one topic to another with no seaming reason.   I also think the author could have also done a little editing to kick out some of the less then interesting bits.   Overall the book in a nice overview of the agency and provides some good and interesting details on some cold war incidents.   If you are only interested in only one of two of these topic's then it may suit you to find a book dealing with just that topic to get a more detailed review.	2002-05-16
1547367:US	41012519	R31JMQYV99981H	0688172032	616949727	The Day John Died	Books	2	17	19	N	N	Fluff and Gossip	This book is not a detailed account of the plane crash that took JFK JR's life, the book is an attempt at a biography of his life.  If you have looked at the book then you know that this is a bio that is going to fall more in the Kitty Kelly area then a deep historical work.  I was looking for more of an account of the forces within his life pushing into politics and his thoughts that lead him away from politics.   We did get a little of these types of details, but the main focus of the book was to get the more tabloid type facts to the front of the chapters - sell more books.  The author does give us some of the highlights of the Kennedy family history, but he does not connect how the events may have affected JFK JR's thoughts on a public life.<br />I was interested in some of the insight on Jackie relationship with him. It did seem like she held a bit of power over his life, but that could have been the author tying to sell more books.  There are also lots of details about how many incidents he got into growing up that could have been physically dangerous.  As I said we do get a broad overview of the Kennedy family over the past 100 years but it almost came off as filler, like there may not have been enough on JFK JR. for the full book.<br />This is a light, gossipy book that touches the surface of his and his family's life.   If that is what you are looking for then this book is a good one.   The writing is good; easy to read and fast paced.  Overall, I felt that this book was just too light.	2002-05-11
1551980:US	41012519	R1C5HLG3LECI6U	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	5	20	25	N	N	One of the Best of it's Type	If you are a fan of true crime books then this will be one of your favorites after you read it, because of the mystery surrounding the case as well as the fact that the details are so odd.  The book details the case of the \\"Zodiac\\" killer that was active in San Francisco in the 1960's.  One of the items that made this serial killer different is that he would send taunting letters to the police.  It is also interesting in that the killings were never solved in that the killer was not caught.   <br />The author gives us a mass of details about the police investigation, including the full text and photos of most of the letters.  He just does a great job of telling the story.  He really \\"puts\\" you into the time frame with his writing, you almost feel that the events are taking place now.    This is truly one of those non-fiction books that read just like a great novel.   You will not regret taking the time to find this book and read it.	2002-05-07
1558776:US	41012519	R1HDMHAJT5MEA6	0786866306	633242070	W: Revenge of the Bush Dynasty	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Good Overview	This is an interesting book that takes a look at George W. Bush and how his life shaped him all the way up to his running for President. The main premise of the book is that GW is following in his father footsteps out of love and admiration for him and a strong sense of duty. The author also gives us about 50% of the book on the first George Bush and his life story which is needed to show you how close GW follows in his footsteps. I would have liked a bit more detail on the other Bush children though, as the author states that all the children have a desire to follow in the father's footsteps. <br />I really did not expect this book to provide me all the details it did about the first President George Bush. That was a pleasant surprise for me. We get a good run down of his overall life and some interesting details about his time as VP and President. I also enjoyed reading how he felt a responsibility and loyalty to Nixon enough to take the RNC post. I actually came away with a better understanding of the father as both a person and a leader. I thought some of the insights also made the Bush handling of the 92 race a little clearer for me. <br />The fist part of the book makes you think this is a love fest book put out by the GW campaign. To be honest, I really did not get that much out of all the details of him in grade school / high school. The book really started to matter to me when the author got into his time in College and later. Once GW started to move on in life the less then faltering facts started to populate the book. Given that that author gives you so many facts, both good and bad, you get a balanced look and the book, in its totality, comes off as a balanced report. I actually did think the author could have played up some of the questions on the Viet Nam issue and the business failures / bailouts to get a more sensational book. <br />The one area that I would have liked more detail on was the major successes of GW. The book does a good job of runningdown his less then stellar business career, but I also wanted more detail on his work on his father's campaign. What the book does say on that point makes GW out to be good at the roll he was a playing - I wanted more detail. I also thought we got shortchanged on his run for the Governor and his service in the office. I wanted more detail on his major accomplishments in office. Basically I felt the author rushed this part through to get to print. <br />This book will not be the end all be all biography of his years before he became President, it is a bit light for that. What the book is though, is a very readable and interesting look at GW and his relationship with his father. If you are interested in either of these two men then this is a good way to learn some facts and not get bogged down in a heavy work.	2002-05-02
1560683:US	41012519	R2MJ7GX6O1XF9	0060159723	754058674	Territory of Lies: The Exclusive Story of Jonathan Jay Pollard : The American Who Spied on His Country for Israel and How He Was Betrayed	Books	4	16	27	N	N	He Should Be In Jail	This book tells the story of Jonathan Pollard, an U.S. Navy Intelligence employee whom in 1985 - 86 spied for Israel. The book takes us through a brief life history of the man, the details on how he started his spying, the actual working of the spying, his capture and trial.  The author does a very good job of keeping the reader bouncing between thinking Pollard was a socially challenged day dreamer with illusions of grandeur to an Israeli state hero.  We learn of the many times in Pollards life where he presented to high school classmates, college friends and co-workers highly creative tails of himself as a top flight Mossad agent - all of which was a fantasy created within Pollards mind.  We are also presented with the case that Pollard was providing to Israel valuable and necessary to their survival secrets that not only helped Israel but also the U.S.<br />The author also does a good job of presenting the case that the running of this spy was not done well at all.  The book talks about the many mistakes Israel made on the running of Pollard and the others associated with him, and then details how Israel left Pollard out to twist in the wind.  What was also interesting to me were the effects, detailed by the author, of this case of friends spying on each other.  The author explains the political fallout from this case and the ways the intelligence community reacted to this \\"Jewish\\" spying.  <br />Bottom line Pollard was a spy and what he did was illegal.  The author is somewhat sympathetic to Pollard but in the end does state that the law was broken.   There is a lot of sympathy in the book about the jail time the wife gets, but in my view she knew and facilitated the spying, therefore, she was just as guilty as Pollard and got off easy.  Pollard complains about how hard jail is on both he and his wife, but you know what - jail is not meant to be fun, it is punishment.    <br />The book is interesting and moves fast - similar to a CNN article.   You get all the facts and they are spelled out in an easy to grasp fashion.   If you are interested in this case this is a very good overview.	2002-04-30
1561480:US	41012519	R17WKG5A7HR1VA	0446392383	923704764	Fighting for Peace: 7 Critical Years in the Pentagon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Reagan's Greatest Hits	This book was basically the \\"Reagan's Defense Departments Greatest Hits\\".  The author was the Secretary of Defense for 7 of the 8 Reagan years and this is his recollection of his time in the office.  Let me start by explaining what this book is not. It is not a detailed account of the politics the author was involved in with the military build-up and expanding budgets, a blow by blow account of the military actions during the Reagan years, nor a kiss and tell scandal book.  The are more then enough detailed books out there about each of these subjects, and to be fair, there would be no way you could detail all these items in one book.<br />What we do get is a nice overview of the military actions during the author's term as the Secretary of Defense, a good overview of some of the political issues and a recap of Iran - Contra from his point of view.   The reviews of the military actions are at a high level and are very good at providing the reader with why the action was taken, the outcomes of the action, and the other factors that needed to be kept in mind politically.  We get a good review of the Grenada invasion, the Lebanon peace keeping, the Libyan attacks and the Kuwait shipping protection from Iran.  We also get his views on the nuclear arms deployment in Europe, the KAL 007 shoot down, SDI and Iran - Contra.  The author even found time to pick on the Reagan administration's favorite whipping boy - Al Haig.<br />Overall the author does a good job.  He provides a very readable and interesting book that is written with some warmth.  He stays away from any criticism of his performance or the Reagan administration as a whole, but you expect that from a memoir.  This book is a nice addition to your collection for anyone that is interested in the 80's or the Reagan administration.  There are even a number of interesting facts and details about the Middle East that are still relevant today.  You will enjoy each page of this book.	2002-04-29
1564063:US	41012519	R2UATIIUBPDUV5	1582791090	259150828	The Second World War Vol. 10 - Liberation & Beyond (The 2nd World War)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting View	This series of books provides all the newspaper reports from the UK related to the topic of the volume during World War Two.  There are also just a massive amount of photographs. This volume details the final days of the war both in Europe and Asia.  I did think that the book is more Europe focused, but given that they are UK papers you expect that.  There is also an interesting home country twist or slant to the reporting that is probably unique to any paper from a country participating.   What would have been interesting is if they could have provided reports from both the UK newspaper and from an U.S. newspaper to get \\"both\\" sides of the story.     <br />Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth. I also found the hatred for the Germans to come through in the writing - it is hard to keep that dislike out of the reporting.   I think if you are a real die-hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not I would go to the library to view the books. Overall the editors did a good job of presenting the information.	2002-04-27
1564663:US	41012519	R2XDZLKJ75Z9TW	158279104X	316126866	The Second World War Vol. 5 - Japan Attacks (The 2nd World War)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting View	I found this series of books very interesting because of all the real newspaper reports. There are also just a massive amount of photographs. The books cover UK newspaper reports of all the major events of the war.   The series is a ten-volume set. This volume deals with the war in Asia.  I found this volume different from the other volumes that mainly talked about the European campaign in that the reports did not seem to be as emotional.  You do get the hatred they had for the Japanese and you can sense the racism.  There is also more a non-UK spin on the deeds of the U.S. forces in the Asian Theater then in the European Theater.<br />Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth. I think if you are a real die-hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not I would go to the library to view the books. Overall the editors did a good job of presenting the information.   It is very interesting looking back at how the people of the UK and time reported events.	2002-04-27
1565616:US	41012519	R23BB2RK27TZL3	0743205626	833686522	Maestro: Greenspan's Fed and the American Boom (Greenspan, Alan)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Far From His Best	Ok, I admit it; I am a big fan of Woodward.  I will read everything he puts out and probably enjoy it.  With that being said, I was not excited to read this book.  I am not all that interested in the workings of the Fed and Greenspan has never stuck me as a very interesting character, but given that it was a Woodward book I gave it a shot.  So my verdict is that I was glad the book was just a bit over 200 pages in length.  Woodward covers all the \\"interesting\\" issues that faced Greenspan, the 87 crash, the Clinton budget plan, the Mexican crisis, the South Korean problem and the collapse of the hedge fund LTCM.  <br />The problem I had was that they were not written well enough to make a non-fed watcher really that excited.  I also thought that the book was only skimming the surface, I wanted a bit more back ground on the issues and effects to the world.  If you have read some of the other books by Woodward on Clinton then you also see some repeated information here, which added to my overall blah feeling about the book. <br />For my money Woodward is the best political writer in the business today.  He has so many contacts that many times in reading the book you could swear he has the offices bugged of the subjects the book is focusing on.  That is why I was disappointed with this book. You get all the standard Woodward items with the book, great details, wonderful he said - she said conversations that really make you feel like a fly on the wall, an easy to follow and well laid out book.  Unfortunately, he still has some hang up with footnotes, I think the use of them would only enhance the books, but he is the author.<br />In my opinion this is a marginally interesting book that I was glad was only 200 + pages long.  If you like Woodward you will like this book enough to finish it, but will probably walk away disappointed.   If you are interested in the Fed then I would assume this is a first step and will come away looking for more details.   Overall I am hopingthe next Woodward book makes this disappointment fade from memory.	2002-04-26
1566307:US	41012519	R2J8SZ0NTKLZKL	0745316913	776180853	Unholy Wars: Afghanistan, America and International Terrorism	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Dry But Informative	This author can say more in 5 words then I could say in 50. To say this book is dense and jammed packed with detail may be an understatement. This book is the authors attempt to detail the creation and support of the Afghanistan freedom fighters in the 1980's and how these fighters then went out in the 90's to form the base of the Al - Qaeda terrorist group. The author takes us through the different countries and ways that the Afghani fighters were funded and supported. It then covers the terrorist acts these same fighters have been committing over the last ten years. <br />We get a very good look at the other nations involved in this issue and how the internal politics of one nation may effect the world. For example the help that China provided the Afghani fighters to keep the Russians busy then turned into an issue for China when those same fighters started working with separatist organizations in Western China. The books main point is that if you use mercenaries to fight a war for you it tends to have far reaching repercussions. <br />What I did not like about the book was the bone-dry writing. He managed to take an interesting topic and turn it into a story with all the excitement of an economics lecture. This is good stuff, punch it up a bit and get me excited to move to the next page. I also wanted a bit more background or links to other events - we get a blizzard of facts, dates, places etc, but it is not tied together very well. And if you are a nut on typos (you probably would get mad at my typing) then watch out because it does not look like too much editing was done on the text.<br />If you want more detail on the Afghanistan freedom fighters / CIA funding process during the 1980's I would suggest the book \\"The Forth World War\\", a great book written by the head of the French version of the CIA which is quoted a number of times in this book. For a more in-depth look at what happened to the aid the book \\"The Bear Trap\\" is also very interesting. If you justwant a nice, easy to read overview of UBL then I would suggest \\"Holy War Inc\\".	2002-04-25
1566859:US	41012519	R24U9T4RY05I8B	067003116X	215020323	Report from Ground Zero: The Story of the Rescue Efforts at the World Trade Center	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Powerfull Must Read for all Americans	This book is basically two parts, the first section is personal accounts of firefighters, police and citizens of the WTC attack on 9 / 11, and the second section of the book is a day by day journal of the author as he helps with the search and clean up at ground zero.  The author is a retired New York firefighter with just under 20 year's experience and has written other books about his experiences in the fire department during that time.   We all know how important and life changing this day was to all Americans and this book will help to keep the important memories of that day with us for years to come.  <br />The first part of the book is really an emotional struggle to get through, the stories are so compelling that you want to keep reading, but the gravity of what you are reading makes you want to put the book down and take a break.  The author has done an excellent job in obtaining first person accounts of the event and placing them in the text together with other related people's stories.  The effect is a very good account of what happened from so many different angles that you get the sense you were there with them.  This section of the book is worth the price of the book 5 fold, and I do not think I can praise it enough.<br />This might not be a popular opinion, but I felt the second half of the book not as gripping.  The first days after 9 / 11 were very interesting and full of facts I did not know.  It also still gave the reader a good deal of emotion, both sadness (stories of fathers looking for lost sons) and relief (the few rescues that came about).   Unfortunately, the farther in time from 9 / 11 the story moved, the less gripping the book became.  The accounts of the author meeting with charity groups, the brief explanations of his attending funerals and just the periods of time he was manning the pile tended to become repetitive.  I understand that this is what happened and it may be bad form for me to describe the attending of funerals as repetitive, but that is how the author wrote it.  <br />I was also a little taken back by the number of times the author found to include the titles of the other books he has written, it almost seemed like product placement on a TV show.  The statements really did not add anything to the story and could have easily been left out.  I almost felt he was forcing the points into the story to get some free advertising.  Overall it was distasteful.<br />Do not let those comments detract you from the book.  In its entirety it is a powerful, gripping book that you will want to read and reread (after some time).  This is a book we should have our children and their children to read so that this day, this attack will never fade from the American collective memory.  You will be sorry if you do not obtain a copy of this book.	2002-04-25
1567531:US	41012519	R330F0ZBGTNPFR	0312184255	459579226	The History of Torture	Books	3	15	16	N	N	General Overview	This book is not some how to book designed for the S & M fan or a third world dictator learning the ropes, but an interesting look at the use of torture throughout history. It covers the use of torture from the ancient Greece civilization through the Spanish Inquisition right into the UK, all the while showing that at the time these methods of \\"punishment\\" were socially acceptable forms of punishment. The authors even look at mental torture and how it is used in societies today.<br />This book does not give the reader a detailed, analytical account of why societies over the years have resorted to torture or why man can perform such cruelty on his fellow man. That review would probably take a number of volumes to cover. The book just provides what people have done in the past in regards to torture / punishment, which was almost always state sponsored or directed. The book is designed as an overview and the reader looking for deep discussions on any one topic will be disappointed. Overall it provides the reader a good overview of the topic. If you are interested in crime and punishment this will be an interesting book for you.	2002-04-24
1567578:US	41012519	R13FP976G8MEP1	0698104307	935123621	The General Was a Spy: The Truth About General Gehlen and His Spy Ring	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Only For The Truly Interested	You know the world is a funny place, if this guy would have not joined up to help the CIA he would have been in a small prison cell facing a war crimes trial. The book covers the World War 2 German General that was in charge of the Nazi's version of the CIA / OSS. He then \\"converted\\" to the allied way of thinking once Hitler was dead and the U.S. and new German government gave him the job of head of the German version of the CIA so he could continue battling the communists. Along the way he also got jobs for all the spies he used to have that were not executed by the Allies during the war. <br />The book does detail out some of the successes of the World War Two counter intelligence and intelligence gathering operations and the creation of the new German organization. It goes into some detail of the \\"battles\\" between the East German intelligence and the West German group, some of which is interesting. We also get some interesting stories about people escaping from East Germany. The down side to the book is that it is dry. You can tell the book was translated because there is a distinct lack of wit or pep. I think the reader of this book really have to be interested in German Cold War intelligence gathering stories, the general read would not get past page 100.	2002-04-24
1567735:US	41012519	RMKB4U5UT3IXJ	0517184435	982918346	Great Battles of World War II: Major Operations that Changed the Course of the War	Books	3	1	1	N	N	General Overview	I think the only current author that puts out more books then this one is Stephen King although King comes up with new ideas.  This was a sale table buy and is not bad for a few dollars.  It basically gives you the overall view of some of the biggest / greatest battles of the war.  It has a run down of who was involved, the leading commander, and the size of the force and then a good general description of the battle.  We also get a number of maps and a good amount of photos.  The best part of the book for me was the clear definition of the Krusk area battles and the large desert battles in Libya.<br />Overall, there is nothing really new here.  The book is a nice overview that would be a nice primer if you wanted to learn more about any one facet of the war.	2002-04-24
1568532:US	41012519	R2X3VS65ZWZ4J8	1853673129	976437453	The Hitler Options: Alternate Decisions of World War II	Books	4	11	11	N	N	One of the Better One's	I have read a few other books that are along this same line of \\"What if\\" and I must say that this book has been the most enjoyable. The author / editor (in this case) has asked 10 military historians to work with him to take 10 parts of the war and work out what would have happened if some decisions by either the Axis or the Allies would have been different. The author gives us a good overview of the overall situation in he war at the time of the decision, and a very good case as to what would have happened if just one or two key decisions were different. This is a different handling of the subject then others have done, the normal for this type of book is to just take decisions that were made and completely change them for no regard for if that was even possible. Almost fitting the decision in so that the author can put together a nice fiction story. <br />What is so interesting is that this could have happened and in some cases almost did happen. The authors use the same players that were involved, the same weapons and resources. It is all put together in a very organized and believable way. The historical detail is well chosen and comprehensive, if you are a general reader this may be a bit much, but then again you probably would not pick this book up. The most interesting parts for me were the invasion of the UK, the changes to the Russian campaign and the change in the D-Day landing location. The author did a good job of completing out the scenarios to what very well may have happened. This is a well written and thought out book that is enjoyable and exciting to read.	2002-04-24
1568608:US	41012519	R4VYLNJ1F1GY2	0804119112	186245031	The Price of Vigilance	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A lot of Detail	Timing is everything in life; the main reason I bought this book was timing. The China / U.S. spy plane midair crash and forced landing had just wrapped up and was still in the general media when this book came out. It sounded interesting and timely so I picked it up. The book covers every signal intelligence flight that was lost during the years of the cold war with primary focus on Europe and the USSR. The authors also included a chapter on the recent China / U.S. incident. I found that the recent events were the most interesting and best-written part of the book.<br />The number of U.S planes that were either shot at or shot down shocked me by the Russians. I was disappointed by the book dust jacket and the mention that the book would go into more detail about how these flights played a major role in avoiding armed conflict with the Soviet Union during the Cold War. There did not seem to be a lot in the book to back this up, what did the USSR do different because these planes were in the air other then to put together a campaign to harass them.<br />The book is very detailed and well researched with all most too much detail. I was interested in the full story, but the book just overloaded me with so much detail I felt like I was getting a military briefing by the crew. Because of the many details and the dry writing, the book can drag a little in parts. It is interesting and if you are interested in the topic you will find value.	2002-04-24
1568644:US	41012519	R1TM6YXD8E1U98	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Book, Good Details, Interesting Story	...Well my level of expectation was far too high... With that being said, he did put together a very good book. It covers the life of Pablo Escobar with a very detailed description of how he was tracked down and killed. <br />The two most memorable parts of the book for me was first just how horrible this guy was. Sure he killed a lot of his drug running buddies and other drug runners - which is expected. It was the level of other violence against the legal system and general public that I was not prepared for. The number of dead police officers, judges, lawyers, politicians, even newspaper reporters was just something else. Then he plants a bomb on a commercial airliner - this guy was just something else.<br />The second area of the book I really liked was the details on what the Colombian and U.S governments did to track this guy down. The FBI, DEA and CIA were all involved. There were daily flights with military planes looking for his cell phone transmissions... Overall the book was very detailed, interesting and well written. The story just moves along through the whole book at a fast pace. It is an enjoyable book and worth the time to read.	2002-04-23
1568846:US	41012519	R3JBI23ZB7IS04	0316601039	194776169	Cold Zero: Inside the FBI Hostage Rescue Team	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Great Details and Stories	Whenever I read a book about specialized police or military force staff like this HRT person, undercover agents, Special Forces etc. I am always prepared for a large helping of ego and bravado mixed into the story. I just expect that if these guys are brave enough to perform these very dangerous tasks then they must have to have a very healthy self-image. With that said, I did not find the same ego in this authors writing. He presented himself as a very professional, business like person that just happened to shoot people for a living. Because of the lack of the over the top \\"We Are The Best\\" tone through out the book, it made the book seam to be a very honest and accurate reflection of this persons job and the department he worked in, it added credibility to the text. <br />The book could be broken down to three main sections, the entry into the FBI, general FBI training, HRT training and training for the sniper part of the job. The second main section covers his part in the Ruby Ridge standoff and shooting. The third section handles his time at Waco. There are some other shorter story's mixed in, but these are the main ones. I think the general reader is really going to find the three sections very interesting. I learned a lot on the Ruby Ridge section; it presents the side of the story of the people that were actually doing the shooting - very detailed.<br />Overall this is an interesting and detailed view into a part of the FBI that has not been written about before. The book has a good amount of newer info and the author holds your attention through the whole book. If you are interested in American law enforcement, the main incidents in the book or just a good old action non-fiction book then you will enjoy this one.	2002-04-23
1568962:US	41012519	RIESCUL56DX8K	0061014591	57293859	The Terrible Hours	Books	4	7	7	N	N	I Wonder How Close To The Krusk Incident This Book is?	This book tells two parallel stories that merge together through out the book.  The author is detailing the sinking of the USN submarine Squalus in 1939, and the career of Swede Momsen who worked on underwater devises used to help rescue people from downed submariners.  I wanted to read the book for the submarine rescue story, but the story of Momsen's fight with his Navy Department superiors and the ingenious gadgets he came up with were very interesting reading.  <br />The author does a great job telling the story of the submarine sinking and the crew that was left to try and be rescued.   The author took some time to introduce the reader to the crew.  In stead of just a number of sailors we got to know their names and something about them.  With this info you really start to get concerned for their lives and the tension grows until the rescue.  It reminded me of what we have heard of the sinking of the Russian submarine Kursk.  The rescue attempt was so slow that the two groups of surviving crew must have felt the same emotions.  You even wonder if the same bureaucratic slow pace detailed here about the rescue was the same problem in Russia.  <br />The recovery of the Squalus and its remaining life are covered at the end of the book and again this is a riveting account of the process.  It is just something that a big hunk of steel that big could be lifted from the bottom of the ocean with 1930's technology.  Overall this is a wonderful book that offers the reader a great history lesson and a wonderful, suspenseful and exciting rescue tail.  The author put together a well-written book.  My only complaint was the lack of photos, maps, and diagrams.  If this subject interested you I would suggest you read \\"Blind Man's Bluff\\", also a very interesting book of USN submarine stories.	2002-04-23
1569032:US	41012519	R2NPQ3HOBMXZ7O	044022179X	710984646	Dirty White Boys	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun and Fast - You Can Not Put It Down	This fast-paced book and the speed of the story helps to increase the tension and suspense.   I hate to sound like a dust jacket, but this book really is an action-packed thriller.   You have a murder mystery and a revenge angle.  He really gives us a good insight to his favorite anti-hero.  An interesting and exciting mix that keeps the book fast paced. This author is great at building the speed of the story up so that you stay turned in and races yourself to the end of the book.   Well-written story and characters add to a great book that is well worth the time.  I have read other books by this author with this character mix and he is getting better by the book.	2002-04-23
1569200:US	41012519	R2FLBFN7L1N0T3	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good Starting Point	This is one of the many books that have come out over the past five years talking about Osama and it is not a bad attempt to bring a shadowy figure more into the light. This is a good book if you are looking for the straight story of Osama bin Laden and his band of merry martyrs. The author is the CCN \\"expert\\" on this group and to be fair he does seem to have a very good handle on the subject. He has personally met most of the higher ups, and has been to all the hot spots that they call home across the Middle East. He put together a good book that tells the story of how Al Qaeda has come from a group of Afghanistan freedom fighters to the global version of Murder Inc. He also interviewed the guy, which can not be said by many. One of my favorite parts of the book was the interesting story of the interview, how he got here and the demeanor of Osama. <br />...The editing was not all that great but the author does apologize for that due to the rush to get the book out. I also did get bogged down in the names, some kind of organization chart would have been helpful. Overall it is a good review of the topic and one that I am sure many Americans will want to read. <br />If you want a more detailed account of how the U.S. aid to the Afghanistan Freedom fighters worked the I would suggest the book \\"Bear Trap\\", it does a good job of discussing how the process worked. The Book \\"Unholy Wars\\" is also a very detailed look at this particular aspect of the Al Qaeda - U.S. link plus more detail on the group as a whole.	2002-04-23
1569404:US	41012519	R2GI7ADIEVCI4R	0609606336	214881024	Nine Minutes, Twenty Seconds: The Tragedy & Triumph of ASA Flight 529	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Wonderfull Telling of the Story	Everything you ever wanted to know about a plane crash and more. This book takes you from the guy who performed the bit of work that went bad to the crew and then to the rescue personnel. Everybody chimes in on the book through the author, and he does a wonderful job of pulling all of the stories together into one account that could be one of the better ones of this type of book. The most gripping account for me was the period from the engine issue to the crash, and after the crash to getting out of the plane. The author does such a great job with the descriptive writing that you can see the people, the fire, the whole scene, you can feel the tension and you really experience the fear. <br />The surprise for me that the book was for the most part a positive reading experience. We learn about the unfortunate people that do not survive, but there is so much more to the story. The author takes us through event after event of average people doing wonderful, heroic and kind things that put a smile on your face. There are just so many people in the story that are trying to help that you do not get hung up on the person that steps on and over someone to get out of the plane. This is a great book that goes by so fast you will be upset that there are not more pages.	2002-04-23
1569458:US	41012519	R3NF3TX7S6TWJ8	0061065188	238468391	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh & the Tragedy at Oklahoma City	Books	5	11	13	N	N	You Will Get Mad at Him All Over Again	I think that the focus of all Americans post 9 / 11 on the term \\"Terrorist\\" is centered on the Middle East and Afghanistan with good reason. What this book will do for you is to have you remember the horrible home grown incident in Oklahoma City and the type of internal terrorist that is probably still lurking around the fringe of society. This book covers a brief life history of little troubled Timmy. It then tries to tell us what brought him to the realization that to protect his right to own as many guns as he could and to make sure that the Waco and Ruby Ridge incidents did not take place again, it was a good thing pack a truck full of explosives and kill almost 200 innocent men, women and children. The book also provides a step by step process on how he prepared the truck bomb and set it off, his capture and the trial. <BR> <BR>What troubled me the most was the very cold, level arguments Timmy made to justify his actions, the same arguments that his group of ultra right wing government haters probably can continue to use to justify other terrorist acts. He also tries to wrap his attack on the government around some additional justification concerning the horrible treatment the American's inflicted on the Iraqi military during the Gulf War. Something like we bombed them too much. The authors go on to give us a view of Timmy that shows he really was just a petty two-bit criminal that loved guns. It all adds to the view into his head, that we were dealing with a troubled kid that could not rationally justify his actions. <br />The last thing that made me think with the book was how easy it was for this guy and his friends to pull this off. UBL sure went to a lot of trouble and cost given the same amount of damage probably could have been done with 10 trucks full of fertilizer and gas. Overall it is a very compelling book that you will not want to stop reading once you start. It is well written and has a good flow.	2002-04-23
1569553:US	41012519	R1LTOHO5P1N9Y2	0312241836	94135913	The Cold War: A  MILITARY History	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Title of Book is Misleading	The author did a disservice to himself by incorrectly stating in the title of the book that it was a history of the cold war.  The book is not, unlike the title might suggest, a history of the cold war.  The book does not cover anything much outside of Europe and really does not touch on the political issues of the time.     <br />What the book does give you is a very detailed and interesting review of the U.S., NATO and Warsaw Pact equipment, base structure and high level battle strategies for a war in Europe.  The author has done a good amount of research on these topics and presents a very readable rundown of this information.  If you are interested in these topics, especially the details on the equipment used then this book can almost act as a reference book.  Overall it is a good book, good level of detail and written in a readable fashion.	2002-04-23
1569613:US	41012519	R32TTITQ05QO2F	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gripping	I have always heard that you can tell a lot about a society by how it treats its prisoners, what this book and statement says about the 1940's Japanese society is not that pleasant.  The book covers the surrender of a large number of American troops to the Japanese in the early stages of World War Two when the Japanese were on a roll.  It covers the battles that lead up to the surrender and how the American's really held out almost as long as they could (not quite the German Stalingrad style holdout but close).  It then covers the Battan Death March and the prisoners time in the Japanese concentration camps - oh sorry, I mean prison camps.<br />I have always been a World War Two buff and have concentrated most of my reading on the war in Europe.  This book really opened my eyes to the different type of war the Japanese fought.  They were not the professional solders that adhered to the Rules of War that we were facing in Europe, but more of an anything goes, surrender is the worst thing ever type of mentality.  The author really takes you into the hell that the American soldiers were placed into once they surrendered.  He describes the tortures very well, almost too detailed.   He has also captured the feelings of the troops.  The sense of abandonment by the U.S., the everyday fears and depression that overtook the troops and the joy of liberation all come through in the writing.<br />If you would like to read more about how the Japanese fought and the war crimes they commented then I would suggest the book \\"The Rape of Nanking\\".  After reading these two books you will have a very different view of the Japanese war effort	2002-04-23
1569727:US	41012519	R3W3FIIFL8YOGC	0871136333	608421828	Victory: The Reagan Administration's Secret Strategy That Hastened the Collapse of the Soviet Union	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Good But I Wanted More	This book is an interesting collection of true-life spy stories, behind the scenes political maneuvering, and good old-fashioned covert operations.   What got me so interested in the book in the first place was the A list of people the author interviewed for the book - Caspar Weinberger, Robert MacFarlane, George Schultz, Richard Pipes, Herb Meyer, and Richard Allen.  Other then actually being part of the meetings and operations, I do not know how the author could have got a better description of the events.  <br />The book gives you a run down of some of the more successful and not all that well-known operations that the Reagan team pulled off during his administration.   I was really surprised at all the focus and wrangling on the oil prices and the behind the scenes work the U.S. did for the Gulf States.  I couldn't help but think that the Shah of Iran was correct in blaming the Carter administration for his downfall given all the other support that America could give to keep these leaders in power.  We also get a large dose of the help the U.S. and the Vatican provided to the Poland Solidarity group.  Reagan just had his hand in everything.  <br />My only issue with the book is that I would have liked a bit more overall detail, the book was a bit short I thought.  I would have liked another 50-100 pages.  The author did a good job, but he is not an edge of the seat author.   He just spelled out the case very professionally with a little pro Reagan bias.  For an interesting different view of many of these operations I would suggest you find a copy of \\"The Forth World War\\".  It is the memoir of the head of the French version of the CIA during the late 70 - 80's and deals with a lot of the same issues and operations that this book covered.  The bonus of the book is some very reviling and interesting predictions about his view of the upcoming worldwide religious war.	2002-04-23
1569870:US	41012519	R1DG4LCJUJ3Y0S	0805066322	236286596	In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Telling of the Story	As many reviewers here have stated this book covers the sinking of the heavy cruiser Indianapolis during the end of World War Two and the fate of the crew that survived the explosion and sinking and went into the water. I am always interested in life's little twists of fate, the Indianapolis was carrying the uranium that would be used for the bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima. What if the ship would have been sunk a few days earlier? The book goes on to cover two main stories, the men that were in the water until their rescue and the court martial of the Captain of the ship.<br />To be honest I was more interested in the sinking of the ship, the time the crew spent in the water, and the rescue of the crew then I was about the story of the Captain. The incompetence of the Navy to let a ship of that size be lost and no one caring to find out why blew me away. The story of the injustice of the Captain was interesting; I was just more interested in the crew. I never thought that the bacteria in the sea or the salt water would eat away at the skin. The shark stories were also gripping. I can not imagine the fear that must have engulfed all of the men to have these huge eating machines swimming under you. And then there is the mental anguish of being surrounded by water in the sun and not having anything to drink for 5 days.<br />This was just a good all around book, it grabs you in the first chapter and keeps your interest all the way through. I am also glad that I now know the full story that the Captain was telling in Jaws.	2002-04-23
1570004:US	41012519	R32U9MQUOH4W4H	0425163083	149638527	Into the Storm: A Study in Command	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Look at the Ground War	Clancy really did an average job with this book.   I have also read the other book in this new series he is putting out \\"Every Man A Tiger\\" and I have to say that Into the Storm is a second to it.  I think that as this was his first attempt at this type of book, he used it as a learning tool and the second book got better.  Then again maybe the co-author was just a better writer.  Clancy has teamed up with the General that was in charge of the ground war in the Gulf War.  <br />The book is basically three parts, the first section talks about the Generals career in the Army, the Army's development from Viet Nam to the Gulf War and a touch of the politics involved within the different military branches.   The second section of the book deals with the build up to the ground war.  The final section deals with the ground war both the stand-alone part and as a joint effort with the air war.  <br />The author does not give you an action packed, inside the tank type of story.  What we do get is the process for building up the forces, developing a plan, working with the other countries and military forces and finally the execution of the plan.  I found the discussions of attack plan creation and the relationship between the air and ground element to be the most interesting.  Overall this is a well-written and constructed book.   It has a lot of value if you are interested in the Gulf War or just how current U.S. battles are planned and fought.   A good compliment to this book is \\"The Commanders\\" by Woodward; it deals more with the U.S. politics involved in setting up the coalition and the interaction between the main U.S. players.	2002-04-23
1570138:US	41012519	R1GRXNOICHOR7I	0671646478	908819528	Nancy Reagan: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	3	31	40	N	N	Go Kitty Go	You just have to love Kitty Kelly, if a subject of any of her books was ever short with a staff member, cut someone off in traffic, or returned a movie late Kitty will find out and make a chapter out of it. This book is really no different, it is the standard, made for tabloid mini series book from her, but that is probably why you buy it. Whenever a person gets to a high profile public job they are always going to have issues that the rest of us what to read about and authors tend to make a little more scandalous then they actualy were. This case is no exception with a person that was first a successful actress and then the First Lady of one of the biggest states and then the country. There are any numbers of toes that have been stepped on and Kitty found them all. <br />The most interesting bits I found were the years in the White House and her hatchet jobs of staff members of her husbands that she did not like, the odd calls to her San Francisco psychic to plan major events, and the wonderful warm relationship she had with her kids (sarcasm in high gear). Overall this is a fun and gossipy kind of book that you would expect from the author. At times there is a bit much detail, but some judicious page skipping will correct that issue. The book is a good representation of all the bad days Nancy had and is worth reading for no other reason to understand the closest advisor Ron had.	2002-04-22
1570236:US	41012519	R18VH86GTS7IG9	0060167041	511863136	Trump: The Deals and the Downfall	Books	3	15	25	N	N	Average	This is a story of ego and money. This biography is probably more balanced then some of the other books that Trump himself has put out, but it basically boils down to somebody that had a leg up and parlayed that money in and even larger pile of money. You get all the basics with this biography, the dull and average childhood, the fun / sexy college years, the first part of his career where he was learning the ropes and then the tabloid end with divorce's, girlfriends, business problems and business successes. <br />I think this book and maybe Trump has missed the real story; Trump can claim great business success, a comeback etc, why must he push the focus on the feeding and sustaining his ego? That is something the book could have spent more time on, but unless you had a fully open Trump to ask the questions to, you would never get the info. Overall, this book is an average effort with about 25 pages that should have been cut by the editor. With a personality in the media so much it is hard to find something completely new in this book that would compel the general reader to want to pick it up.	2002-04-22
1570492:US	41012519	R3SKADA5EROIOD	0786884460	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Man - What They Had to Eat	Books like this make me wonder what is in the head of some people.   To leave your perfectly warm and comfortable house and job to spend two years tromping around the arctic in a cramped old boat, eating food that mostly resembles dog food, and being permanently cold - are you kidding me?  I must just be a wimp, because this is exactly what this group does and of course the plan goes sour about as soon as they are out of reach of any help.  I guess the book would not be that interesting if everything worked.<br />So the boat is stuck and then crushed and these guys all build little icehouses and hope to tough out the winter eating this horrible meat cake stuff they brought with them.   Well you guessed it, about a day into this situation they start to fight, separate into different groups and finally just head off in different directions.  What surprised me is that so many of them lived to tell about it thus the documents the author used for the book.<br />The book really moves along very well.  She describes the cold so well you get chills just reading about it.   The richness of her descriptions lets you really understand what happened, but the detail does not slow the book down at all.   It moves fast right up to the end.   This is an interesting book that any adventure reader will enjoy.	2002-04-22
1570551:US	41012519	R363VOTMQGNUBQ	0312273193	442933144	The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	18	26	N	N	A Must Read For Clinton Fans	I think the title of this book really gives the reader an inside to what is in the book. Two investigative reporters have done a great deal of research to find the information contained here. Basically if you dislike President Clinton you are not going to want to pick up this book, because it will not substantiate the \\"reasons\\" to think President Clinton was a crook. If you were a fan of President Clinton then you will read and reread this book and take it with you the next time there is gathering with President Clinton distracters to help you defend him. If you are one of the few that has not really made their mind up this could be a book that could change your view. <br />The main focus of the book is to detail the campaign by a few far right conservatives to dirty the Clinton name any way they can.  Sure Clinton did not help himself and gave these distracters a few items to start with, but they took it to a new level.  The Whitewater real estate deal is described in the book and the false information that was put out by the far right is detailed.  Some of this stuff is really something; it will defiantly aggravate you and make you wonder what good comes of all this divisiveness.  <br />The book is full of details, so many that at times it can drag. It is well documented within the book and it has a solid flow through to the end of the book. Overall it is a very interesting book, but many readers will have their minds made up before they open the book. An interesting compliment to this book is the James Stewart book 'Blood Sport\\", it ties in with a lot of the items these authors have found. Overall, this book is a must read if you are a Clinton fan.	2002-04-22
1570559:US	41012519	R3NYEHXM3EFAF5	0736645454	485009743	Rfk: A Candid Biography of Robert F. Kennedy	Books	3	5	9	N	N	This Book is Something Else	This author may be the male version of Kitty Kelly. Basically the book is a history of JFK that has a good amount of scandalous details about his pre married life and a few bits after he is married. We also get some bits about his father and JFK thrown in for good measure. The reason I read this book was I wanted a better understanding of his White House years, his relationship with JFK and some info on the Cuban Missile Crisis and the Bay of Pigs issue. The book does touch on these two topics, but not in the kind of depth I was looking for. To be fair I should have really found a book that just dealt with these topics solely so I can not mark this book down too far on this issue.<br />The book did cover the FRK relationship with Hoover, which I found very interesting. They really disliked each other and they both held some power over one another. It looked like an interesting game of chess the two played. The other interesting relationship detailed was between RFK and LBJ. Again no love lost here. Overall the book was interesting if not a little on the gossipy side. It is a good overview of the man and some added info on the family. It is easy to get through and the author does a good job with some of the less exciting topics.	2002-04-22
1570576:US	41012519	R6XOYC5FZR3IF	0060930888	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Book, Very Interesting	This author did something very interesting. He took a look at a number of very important events with the end of the Civil War and wrote a book talking about the month that the events all took place in. He may be stretching the point that this is the one-month that was the deathblow to the south, but overall he provides an interesting argument. <br />I think the most interesting parts of the book for me were the descriptions of the battles that were fought, how they took place and the actual numbers involved. The author does a very good job of describing the violence of the battles without becoming overly graphic in his descriptions. He also does a good job in documenting the issues that were facing the South during this period of time (he was trying to state this was there last hope so it may be a little bias). It painted a very bleak picture for the Confederates.<br />We also get a good amount of insight into the major plays of the time from Lincoln to Grant, Davis to Jackson. There are facts here that are very interesting and the author draws our attention to a number of parallels of the main characters and the consequences to the overall situation. We also get some good detail on the assassination of Lincoln. Overall this is a well-written and detailed book that will hold your interest through to the end. It reads very smoothly and is exciting at times. If you are interested in American history this may be one of the books you need to read.	2002-04-22
1570608:US	41012519	R1ZYW0Q297KOWQ	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fast Paced	This book was defiantly something new for me as science fiction is not an area I read at all. The book was given to me as a gift and came highly recommended. That being the case I gave it a shot and found that I really enjoyed it. The biggest issue I had was getting into the completely fictionalized and make believe world, once I stopped saying \\"but that can't happen\\" I found I really got into the book and enjoyed it. The author has done a great job in making the lead character into a cross between the Harrison Ford character in Blade Runner and Joey from Friends - both dark and at the same time fun to be around. <br />The book is about this run of the mill not overly successful guy in the real world that finds he is much better in a cyber world that has been created and is as real to people as the real world. The \\"real world\\" in the book is rather dark and not very nice so you understand why the character would spend time in the cyber world. So once in there we have an action / mystery story that is fun and fast paced. The story is enjoyable and is easy to read. If you are looking for some escapism then this book will fit the bill. One caution, as I do not read SF, I have no idea how this book compares to others in the field.	2002-04-22
1570732:US	41012519	R3TYYFFOD9S0KQ	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	4	6	N	N	You Learn Something on Every Page	This is just an all around good book.  The author was the son of one the American solders picture in the famous flag-raising picture from World War Two.  I do not think I can add much additional to the actual details of the book that are spelled out here in other reviews, but I do want to add my comments on the book.  It was so interesting, because you hardly ever get such a look into the people from a particular event before, during and after the event took place.  The book offered a wonderful recap of the event and the actions of the solders during that battle.   It also gave a review of their service after the picture and their lives after the war.  <br />The book was written by one of the sons so you get a great deal of warmth for the subjects in the book that you would not get if an investigative reporter or historian wrote the book.  The writing is very earthly; it is almost like you are having a conversation with the author.   It is an all around good, interesting and entraining book that is not just for the World War 2 junky.	2002-04-22
1570767:US	41012519	R147G097D5YVHS	0818404728	924819193	A Woman Named Jackie: An Intimate Biography of Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis	Books	3	12	12	N	N	All the Gossip You Need	This author may be the male version of Kitty Kelly.  Basically the book is a history of Jackie Kennedy that has a good amount of scandalous details about her married life to both of the famous men she caught and a few bits after she is widowed the second time.   We also get some bits about her family and JFK's family thrown in for good measure.   Of course we get to learn a lot about her relationships with JFK and Onassis, but I also liked the details about her relationships with RFK and LBJ.  The reason I read this book was I wanted a better understanding of her White House years, her relationship with JFK.  The book does touch on these two topics, but not in the kind of depth I was looking for.  To be fair I should have really found a book that just dealt with these topics solely so I can not mark this book down too far on this issue.<br />The book did cover the Onassis relationship, which I found very interesting.  They really seamed to have a marriage of convenience.   It looked like an interesting game they played with each other.   The other interesting relationship detailed was between her and LBJ.  Overall the book was interesting if not a little on the gossipy side.   It is a good overview of her life and some added info on the family's she was married into.   It is easy to get through and the author does a good job with some of the less exciting topics.	2002-04-22
1570774:US	41012519	R1XGMSTSV3N1VT	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	5	9	19	N	N	A Shock	Even the title of this book makes you gasp a little; these are two words any Catholic does not want to see in the same sentence let alone next to each other.  Even given this, I am both a Catholic and a World War Two junky so I picked this book up as soon as I saw it.  I think the first thing that struck me was that the author, a noted non-fiction religious writer, set out to write a positive account of Pius 12th.  What he found in the Vatican archives changed his mind about writing a positive piece and he put together this book.  <br />I did not know what to expect when I started the book and once I read through the book, I must say I was shocked.  How could the head of the church not only turn a blind eye to these grim proceedings, but also almost help to facilitate them?  My only way to try and somewhat justify (or just hope not to hold the man in such contempt) his actions is that maybe he felt his actions were in turn saving the lives of the many Catholics in Europe or the safety of the Church itself (I may be reaching here).<BR>        <BR>Overall, this is an interesting and well-researched book that grabs your attention on the first page and holds it throughout the book.  There is not a lot of high handed preaching or pages of very detailed and mundane church bureaucracy.  Just a well thought out and constructed book that should be read to remind us that whatever our position is, we can not overlook wrongs in society.	2002-04-22
1570927:US	41012519	R3J9IMPEB8EF7K	055358135X	298857171	War of the Rats	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Good Historical Detail	This author has done a great job of taking both a World War Two historical battle - Stalingrad, mixed in a sniper duel using factual characters and created a story that could almost be mistaken as non-fiction. The details of what took place at the battle are as real and detailed as any of the non-fiction books out there that describe the battle. The sniper story line is also close to the facts including the tactics and weapons described. The author does a good job at describing the town, or what is left of it during the battle. He also paints a vivid picture of what the battle and living conditions were like during the siege. <br />My only issue with the book was the love story sub plot. It did not seam to work for me; the book is taking place in a hell on earth battle with death all around them, if there was a romance there it just distracted me form the story. I did not pick up the book looking for a love story nor did I expect one thrown in. Besides that it was a very good book. If you are into World War Two historical fiction this is one of the better ones out there.	2002-04-22
1571029:US	41012519	R2L5D4YCEN3A6V	1574881566	854390648	The One that Got Away	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Every Soldier A Story	I have heard that this author and the more famous other one that wrote Bravo Two Zero have both be accused of making their stories a bit more thrilling with a bit more bravado then actually took place. I do not know if that is correct, what I do know is that this story is thrilling. The book details a mission of British SAS troops during the Gulf War that are sent behind enemy lines to locate and call in air strikes on scud missiles. Unfortunately, they are found out by the Iraqi military and are separated into two groups. This book details one of those groups, which started with two solders. <br />Overall the book really is interesting and fun. The author describes a story that keeps you interested and on the edge of your seat the whole time. There is real suspense which is difficult in a book about a war where there just is not that much battle for the character. It is just like a car chase without the cars. This is a fun book that reads like a novel.	2002-04-22
1571068:US	41012519	R2GQX7Z18MRWDC	0375726624	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Wow, a Scary Look	This author was brave.  I do not think I would want to venture into this world, not even to write a book, but he did.  The author got a job as a prison guard at what looks to be the worst prison in New York.  Being the new guy he also was placed in the worst positions of the job - face to face guarding of the inmates.  So he is in the most dangerous prison going the most dangerous job - the makings for a gripping book.<br />The author does a good job of describing the downright horrible things that people do to one another.  I knew that prison life was bad, but the level of violence, both inmate on inmate and inmate on guard is eye opening.  How these guards go into these human wastelands and not have it destroy their souls, is beyond me.  I do not think my office job stress could ever compare with the day to day hell prison guards face.  This author takes there, right there at the forefront of the prison system.  He very vividly tells us about all the horrible and some more human encounters he faced.  He also provides us with a good view of how the prison guards work together to face this daily grind in what has to be one of the worst jobs in America.<br />This is a very good book, well-written and easy to get through in a weekend.   It should be mandatory reading for any teenage child to show them the \\"joys\\" of prison life.  I think this book would appeal to the general reader and the true crime fan both as it is just that interesting and gripping.	2002-04-22
1571276:US	41012519	R300EYPKFDHRHC	0747232164	886088090	Richard Branson: The Authorised Biography	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting	You need an ego to build a company as large and successfully as Sir Richard has put together and that ego are captured by the author. The author gives us a view into the career of Mr. Branson from the start - the standard biography structure. The author did try to sneak in one or two items that are a bit on the tabloid side, but overall it looked to be a fair and complete review. I was most interested in how he structured his companies and moved from one to the next - I assumed he continued to own them, but that is not the case. Overall and interesting book that is enjoyable. If you are interested in the man then this would be a good starting point.	2002-04-22
1571637:US	41012519	R2XU99CRKWUD3K	0831771348	949819920	Week by Week Guide to Your Pregnancy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Usefull and Entertaining	This book was my wife's favorite of all the pregnancy books she bought. She thought it was full of very helpful and interesting information that she wanted or needed. You really understand what is going on each week with the development of the baby. It also provides a great deal of pictures and illustrations. It is just an all around very useful book.	2002-04-21
1571840:US	41012519	R2KC0KHVUZLB02	089480829X	874075168	What to Expect When You're Expecting	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Why So Negative?	I do not understand why this series is so popular - is it the good title or just that they have been around some time?  My wife and I went out and got an arm full of books and this was one of them.  The positive side is that it did seam to provide some good information in a reference method.  It also gave us a general idea on what was going on and some of the things to look for.   What we did not like is it seams that this book should have come with an overbearing adult wagging her finger at you.  I don't think we needed or cared for the tone the book had about the authors militant views on what not to do - is drinking 1 coke really going to be that bad?    It is almost like the authors wanted to scare you silly for nine months.  Overall an overview, but if you are aggravated by being talked down to then I would look someplace else.	2002-04-21
1572009:US	41012519	R2C2NR67O8BCJF	0894800159	479641503	What to Eat When You're Expecting	Books	2	13	16	N	N	What's With The Tone?	I do not understand why this series is so popular - is it the good title or just that they have been around some time?  My wife and I went out and got an arm full of books and this was one of them.  The positive side is that it did seam to provide some good recommendations for what to eat and what to avoid.  It also gave us a good idea on the special health and nutrition issues for pregnant women. What we did not like is it seams that this book should have come with an overbearing adult wagging her finger at you.  I don't think we needed or cared for the tone the book had about the authors militant views on what not to eat - is 1 coke really going to be that bad?    50 years ago women worked in the fields or factories all day, smoked and drank like fish and we all turned out ok.  Overall a nice overview with some good recipes, but if you are aggravated by being talked down to then I would look someplace else.	2002-04-21
1572020:US	41012519	R39EUO4MG9PSPM	000255934X	298176281	Blood Royal: The Story of the Spencers and the Royals	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Fast Paced and Fun	My wife is addicted to all things Royal with a special sweet tooth for Diana books.  Therefore, she went out and picked this up as soon as she heard it was out.   She read it, loved it and then suggested I read it because it would give me a good history of the Spencer family.  I didn't think I needed this education, but I gave it a go.    I must say the book surprised me.  Fist off it gave me a lot of history of the family but in doing so I learned a lot of the history of the UK, at least the last 400 years.  The book was full of details and read well.   It has an easy to read style that always comes through with a good bit of gossip here and there - like how did they spend all that money?   Overall it is an interesting book and if you are into the Royals then my wife says it is a must read.	2002-04-21
1572121:US	41012519	R2J045YMYILKCY	0671524313	939508171	The Girlfriends' Guide to Pregnancy: Or everything your doctor won't tell you	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The Best on the Topic	Once we found out that my wife was pregnant we went out and got an arm full of books and this was one of them.  This book was by far both my wife's and my favorite of all the pregnancy books we bought.   We both thought it was full of very helpful and interesting information that she wanted or needed.   You really understand what is going on each week with the development of the baby.   It also provides a great deal of pictures and illustrations.   It is just an all around very useful book that has a lot of humor.  My wife said it was the \\"inside story\\" on what she really needs to know.   We recommend this book to all of our friends.	2002-04-21
1572415:US	41012519	R2WPEBC5XP06Q3	0345395069	209327852	Reign in Hell	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Oh Come On	I am a bit disappointed in the author after reading this book, I just have zero patience for books that are this cheesy.  He should have used more of his skills to actually put together a story tat was not so Hollywood.  The book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters.    I just did not believe the characters.  I kept waiting for it to get better which is why I toughed it out to the end, but I was disappointed overall.    <br />With that said I did find that the book is a fast paced action book.   For me it was disappointing, because there is nothing new here except maybe the name, the plot is so predictable.  This is mindless pulp fiction, if that is what you are after then this is the book for you.	2002-04-20
1572529:US	41012519	RM7Z8Y4Z1RTQN	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Read &quot;The Hot Zone&quot; if you are pressed for time	Let me start out by saying that I first read \\"The Hot Zone\\" by this author so my view of the book is based on the impression I had of the author and what this book would deliver.  There are a ton of reviews here that cover what the book is about so I will not go into that depth.  What I would say is that this is an above average book with an interesting story, good characters and a quick read.  I was disappointed because I found that \\"The Hot Zone\\" held my interest and had more tension then this book.   If you have read this or are going to I would highly recommend \\"The Hot Zone\\", it is heads and tails better this \\"The Cobra Event\\".	2002-04-20
1573373:US	41012519	R1XHH5PBO29ZQZ	0684831392	733063543	BLOOD SPORT: The President and His Adversaries	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Whitewater OD	This is the \\"Absolutely, positively, without a doubt everything you want to know about Whitewater\\" book. I really do not think there is one shred of info left out, the Independent Prosecutor would be hard pressed to put together such a detailed and complete history. I doubt even the combined recollection of all the people involved know as much about Whitewater as what is in this book. That should give you a pretty good idea of what the book is about, the author does through in a little about the campaign, travel gate, Vince Foster and a few other early Clinton scandals, but the true heart of the book is the Whitewater investigation.<br />The book does not flow as quickly as his last book \\"Den of Thieves\\" nor is it as gripping. It is, however, a very well constructed and researched book. If you are interested in this particular issue then I have not come across a book with a better non-partisan telling of this story. If you are looking for an overall detailed account of the election or the first four years in the Clinton White House I would suggest the Woodward books \\"The Agenda\\" and \\"The Choice\\" and the Elizabeth Drew book \\"Showdown: The Struggle between the Gingrich Congress and the Clinton White House\\".	2002-04-19
1573419:US	41012519	R10577JS88ZW6V	0140513892	437179244	Dictionary of the Third Reich, The Penguin (Dictionary, Penguin)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Soild Effort	This is a solid bit of historical reference. The book is well laid out and easy to use. It is not the \\"complete\\" guild but it does cover about 95% of what the general reader would be looking for. The items that are not in there would probably only be looked up by the real hard core World War 2 fan. I would have preferred a few more pictures and maps. Overall this book gives you what you need in an easy to use format.	2002-04-19
1573421:US	41012519	R37254LR62WL8K	0375502637	788126984	Going Up the River: Travels in a Prison Nation	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Gets You to Think	I had mixed feels about this book.  Part of me said, so what - they are prisoners and did something against the law to get where they are so if they have to work for .10 an hour too bad.  The other part of me said is this type of exploitation of prisoners any different then what he Chinese do that has the international human rights groups so up in arms?  This book is an interesting look at the current state of the prison industry in America.  I say industry because that is exactly what the book makes the profession out to be.  It details the many different ways that prisoners have to pay for items and the work that they do to pass the time / earn their keep.<br />Overall it is an interesting book that will have everyone that reads it come away with an opinion, one way or the other.  For the most part, the author does not let his view of the process cloud too much of the story, but it did seem to me, just a little, that he had a negative view of what the industry is becoming.  The book is full of interesting facts and details about which the average reader knows nothing about.  The bonus of the book is the fact that just by explaining the current situation, the author succeeds in getting the reader to think about if this is the best way to treat the prison issue in America.  Is it the dog chasing the tail when so many people, counties &amp; towns, and companies rely on the prisons for they're living?   Is this one industry that we really want to grow by 10% a year, and how much pressure to maintain that growth will filter down to the people that make the laws, enforce the laws and judge the people?	2002-04-19
1573572:US	41012519	R1DFHQKE1WPAXP	0684867583	22004446	Dead Reckoning: The New Science of Catching Killers	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great Details	I think I read this book over a weekend.  It just kept me glued to the chair; the book was just that interesting.  The book talks about what the medical examiner does to determine the cause of death and what evidence he / she can gather from the body.  The book is not for the very week at heart, but it is not overly graphic or gross.  The author just details so many interesting procedures and processes that you want to learn more.  If you are interested in true crime or even the fictionalized versions this is a must read book.  Even general reader's will like this book, it is that fast paced and gripping.	2002-04-19
1573679:US	41012519	R31SPVS8GBITU5	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	5	4	4	N	N	He is the Best	The author, Stephen E. Ambrose is considered one of if not the leading American historian concerning our involvement in World War 2.  He has recently received some bad press about &quot;borrowing&quot; information from other authors, and that is a shame he let this happen to his image, but this issue does not effect his wonderful writing style.  This book takes the reader through the full story of what it was like to be in a bomber crew during the European U.S. effort during World War Two.  He takes the reader from the training, planning and preparation all the way to the actual bombing runs.  We also get about 40 % of the book that covers the career during the war of George McGovern, which is an interesting story in its self.   The book is just wonderfully detailed and really paints a picture in the minds eye.    <br />The thing that I loved the most about the book was the immense amount of detailed information he gave us.  Ambrose is such a skilled writer that he can dictate lists in a compelling manner.  The story has much more then endless list of facts, Ambrose does a wonderful job of describing what the American aircrew went through, and from the food they ate to first hand accounts of some of the worse air battles in the war.  I highly recommend this and his books \\"D-Day\\" and \\"Citizen Solders\\" to get an accurate, detailed and very easy to read documentation of the American war effort in Europe.  There is no better American author on the topic.	2002-04-19
1573684:US	41012519	R25WADCJHTCPVH	1586480103	64931643	MY WAR	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Personal Account	I think the vast majority of the people interested in this book and author are because of his fame from the TV and not as an author.  I know this is how I approached this book, I was hopping for the biting humor from his appearances on 60 Minutes but concerned that it would not come through in the written word.  What I found when reading the book is that he was representing a different person then the one on TV.  He was providing the reader with his experiences during World War 2 in Europe and I found that the writing seemed to come from a much younger and more innocent mind then the current TV personality.  <br />Due to this writing style I found that the book was more enjoyable then I expected.  The author gives us some very good stories written in a comfortable way that seems more like holding a conversation with a close friend. This book is not for he person looking for page after page of combat action, just the interesting person story of a war reporter that sees a little bit of everything in the European theater.	2002-04-19
1573686:US	41012519	R3GYBZH4ZV50TT	0743226070	565555697	The Rehnquist Choice: The Untold Story of the Nixon Appointment That Redefined the Supreme Court	Books	3	3	5	N	N	What a Story	Even in politics the credit for mediocre decisions are fought over.  Is it just me or does John Dean want to write himself into every important or at least not illegal decision that was made in the Nixon White House?  With that being said this book does give the reader an interesting view into the process the President goes through in selecting a Supreme Court Justice.   I have to imagine that this process has not changed much in the past 25 years.  If you have also read some books on the Nixon administration it is interesting to get his view of the people and the relationships.   The author also gets a lot of criticism from his former co-workers in he White House every time he puts out a book so that says to me that he is either telling something they do not want told or he is just hated.  If you are a political junky then this is an interesting book to read.	2002-04-19
1573717:US	41012519	RA2DAA5540LA8	0425172929	33493017	Every Man a Tiger: The Gulf War Air Campaign (Commander Series)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Very Interesting Look at the War	Clancy really did a good job with this book.   I have also read the first book in this new series he is putting out \\"Into the Storm - A Study in Command\\" and I have to say that this book is much better.  One would think that as it is the second book, maybe he learned how to put together a non-fiction story in a more readable and interesting way or maybe the co-author was just a better writer.  Clancy has teamed up with the General that was in charge of the air war in the Gulf War, and has a done himself a favor getting someone as inteligent and engaging to work with.<br />The book is basically three parts, the first section talks about the Generals career in the Air Force, the Air Force development from Viet Nam to the Gulf War and a touch of the politics involved within the different military branches.   The second section of the book deals with the build up to the air war.  The final section deals with the air war both the stand-alone part and as a joint effort with the ground war.  <br />The author does not give you an action packed, inside the cockpit type of story.  What we do get is the process for building up the forces, developing a plan, working with the other countries and military forces and finally the execution of the plan.  I found the discussions of target selection and the relationship between the air and ground element to be the most interesting.  Overall this is a well-written and constructed book.   It has a lot of value if you are interested in the Gulf War or just how current U.S. battles are planned and fought.   From watching the nightly news you can see that many of the same processes and tactics discussed in this book were used with the current U.S. military efforts in Afghanistan	2002-04-19
1573731:US	41012519	R3JQ3ENSSL80FK	0425166821	817639450	Carrier: A Guided Tour of an Aircraft Carrier (Tom Clancy's Military Reference)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Great Overview	This is just a wonderful book on the topic.  Clancy and co. have done a great job of taking the reader through the ships in question and really explaining the different types, parts, and jobs associated with an Aircraft Carrier.  Clancy also does a good job in explaining what it is like to live and work on one of these ships.  He also takes us through some of the training that takes place to get into the job.  He also adds a good amount of detail of what the typical types of missions these ships and battle groups have today, what they did in the cold war and the possible missions upcoming.<br />I was surprised at the number of countries that also have aircraft carriers not to mention the different types the U.S has.  Clancy takes us through a long inventory of all the different countries that have aircraft carriers today, what kind of ships they are and what are the strengths and weaknesses of the model.  Another interesting part of the book was the description of all the countries currently making the aircraft carriers and how good / bad they are at it.   I enjoyed the fact that the catapult technology really only comes the U.S. as no one else has mastered it.  <br />Overall this was an interesting, easy to read and very informative book.   If you are interested in aircraft carriers then this should be your first stopping point.   A good book well worth the money.	2002-04-19
1573804:US	41012519	R35C3DADZSXUMK	0521641748	190782726	Reading the Holocaust	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Big Task	This is a small book in size only.  The author has taken it upon herself to review the field of literature on the topic and try and take a new look at the perceptions for why it happened and why it happened to the Jews.   This is a interesting and gutsy look at the topic, some would say it is the \\"third rail\\" in many circles to look at this topic, but the author does it and does not do a bad job of it.  I think she correctly provides and overview that the holocaust was not a unique event in world history and that it is possible to understand the motivations of the people who committed these crimes, just like it is to understand common criminals.  <br />The author is taking on a big issue and one that could easily bog the reader down in a large amount of complicated theories and terms, but she does not.  The book is well written and straightforward.  If you are interested in topic this should be one of the books you start out reading.	2002-04-19
1573815:US	41012519	R1RSEN7NAQW9TR	1568957874	378132672	Shadow: 5 Presidents and the Legacy of Watergate	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great Detailed Info	Ok, I admit it; I am a big fan of Woodward.  I will read everything he puts out and probably enjoy it.  With that being said here is another book of his that I will profess to really enjoying.  For my money he is the best political writer in the business today.  He has so many contacts that many times in reading the book you could swear he has the White House bugged.  This book tries to tie in the Presidents sense \\"Tricky Dick\\" and draw a parallel to how they have all had some form of a \\"scandal\\" during there terms.  With my professed admiration for Woodward it pains me to say this, but the premise does not really work in the book.<br />He details the issues each of the Presidents have faced but he really does not tie them together in the way I think he wanted to, which is that the power and complexity of the President almost assures a problem.  Where I think he could have tied the theory together is that the press is all after the next \\"issue gate\\", and they more then anyone drive this issue of scandal journalism.  <br />With this being said, you get all the standard Woodward items with the book, great details, wonderful he said - she said conversations that really make you feel like a fly on the wall, an easy to follow and well laid out book.  The real gems of the book are the details of how the Reagan and Bush Presidencies handled Iran - Contra and what is probably the best record of the last two years of the Clinton scandal Fest and \\"Monica-gate\\".   This is an interesting book that I really enjoyed.  If you like Woodward you will like this book, if you are interested in Iran - Contra or the last two years of the Clinton presidency then this is also a good source of information.	2002-04-19
1573890:US	41012519	R13XXBIZ76Q57	0815769504	374332511	The White House Staff: Inside the West Wing and Beyond	Books	4	21	22	N	N	You Will Get A Lot of Use Out of This Book	The reference book that makes it all comes together.  Ok so the book does not really bill its self as a dull reference book but it has all the info needed to understand who does what in the White House.   The book is anything but dull, the author has broken down the different departments within the White House and explains each of them in just a wonderful, easy to understand manner.  In order to stay away from just a dull listing of the tasks the author drops in interesting facts and stories from the last few administrations that bring extra meaning and understanding to the explanations.  <br />A good, well-written book that will help the reader understand who does what in the White House.	2002-04-19
1573933:US	41012519	R2CHDFNJG5DQXV	0684864851	218496758	Endgame : Solving the Iraq Problem -- Once and For All	Books	4	19	25	N	N	Here We Go Again	The one emotion all readers will come away from with this book is a sense of frustration.  Not only because of the roadblocks and shell games that Iraq was doing but also that the U.S. was and is in the position that we have to do this monitoring in the first place.  The author of this book was the lead weapons inspector for the U.S. group during the mid 90's until Iraq throw him out for spying.  He divides his book into two main sections, the hinting for the weapons and what should be done moving forward. <br />The details of the weapons systems they were looking for and the methods the Iraqi went to in order to hind them was very interesting.  There is even humor in the book when the author talks about how inept the Iraqi's were with many of the attempts to hide information.  I especially liked the military commander that was told to move all the machines used in nuclear experimentation but he left all the diagrams, test plans and results and the machine operating manuals there because they only told him to move the equipment.   The author even finds a few ways to detail some genocide in the book just we do not forget what Saddam uses these weapons for.  <br />The second part of the book is the authors plan to solve this problem.  I will not ruin the book for you, but it is interesting.  This is a good book that is interesting to read.  The author is a very confident and somewhat brash man and that comes through in the writing.   He does a very good job of not bogging the reader down in too much detail about the fine points of the chemical processes or laundry lists of ingredients.  The book is worth the time to read if for no other reason to prep you for what may start happening all over again.	2002-04-19
1573948:US	41012519	RFY89KRTVJLSR	0679457542	418762857	The Operator: David Geffen Builds, Buys, and Sells the New Hollywood	Books	4	3	4	N	N	What a Hard Life	My friends and I sometimes have conversations debating if you have to be a manipulative, take no prisoners, hard charging bully to make it to the top in the business world.  Judging from this book, this is certainly what you need to do to make to the top in the music business.  The author does a good job of making you not really like the subject of the unauthorized biography starting on about page 2.  With that being said, he is very successful in his career so I don't think we can fault him.  There is a good portion of interesting gossip details through out the whole book and enough famous name dropping it is like the guest list to the Peoples Choice Awards.  Overall, this is a fun and interesting book that will keep you interested until the end.	2002-04-19
1573954:US	41012519	RK4U6JL4AV9V1	0312973624	566519970	Monica's Story	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Light & Easy to Read	Reading this book almost made me feel as if I was looking through a tabloid.  To be honest I really only scanned the parts where she was with Clinton and the treatment she received by the FBI and her \\"friend\\" Linda.  We all know the sorted details; the one part I do not think we all have a good view of is the treatment the FBI dished out.  Do I want them to act this way with a terrorist or a Mafia Don - ok, but come on, with this young lady and her mother?  I felt it was a bit over the top and an abuse of power.  Also the trustworthiness of Linda should be called in question based on the stunts she pulled her.  She was looking for the fast track to fame.  <br />Overall this is an interesting, gossipy book that gives a different view of the situation then you may have received just watching the nightly news.  The book is light and fast making it a very easy to read book.	2002-04-19
1574032:US	41012519	R1SG58WNKI1PRY	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	9	9	N	N	One of the Best on the Topic	This is just a harrowing account of this, one of the fiercest and most deadly battles on the eastern front for the German's during World War Two.  The author describes the battle of Stalingrad primarily through the view and actions of the German Army.  The details he adds from the lice infestations to the battles with the cold are worth the purchase price of the book alone.  He really has a knack for telling of the hardships that make you understand the mind set of the soldier, sense the emotions they are feeling and paint a picture of the environment that almost sends chills up your spine.<br />As the book progresses you have to wonder if Hitler or any members of the General Staff had any clue as to what their own forces were going through.  It also highlights how even the own troops of both armies were treated as so much firewood to be thrown in the blase.  It is no wonder that these two armies killed each other and their own troops so casually and in such large numbers.  <br />Overall, this is a very good book with an armload of details, a great section of pictures and maps, and just a easy to get engrossed style of writing that will cause you to cancel appointments and stay at home reading.	2002-04-19
1574049:US	41012519	RXBJGSHARSDUZ	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of The Best	Wow, this book will be the standard for action adventure reporting for maybe the next 20 years.  If the author gets royalties from each book that has on its dust jacket \\"just like Into Thin Air\\", he will make a good living just from that.  This book is the \\"Black Hawk Down\\" of action adventure non-fiction.  The author does that well of a job in telling this story.  The story is the detailed account of a 1996 expedition to Everest in which a storm blew in and a number of people were lost.  This book is told by one of the participants on the mountain that all most died.  It is by far the best book of the class and one that everyone that has read it has loved it.    <br />The author has just done the most complete, detailed, tension filled true-life action adventure book there has been.   I can not say enough good things about this book nor do I have the skill to truly convey to you how excellent this book is.  Do yourself two favors - first buy the book, next lock yourself in a room and clear your calendar because you will not want to put the book down.	2002-04-19
1574090:US	41012519	R18G68BUV7EQK7	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Not  &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;	The dust jacket of this book described the book to be as thrilling and suspenseful as Into Thin Air, unfortunately they were wrong.  This raised the expectations for me and when the book fell short, my opinion all fell.  The story is about a large storm off the northeast coast of the U.S. and the effect it had on a few boats and the Coast Guard that was sent out to rescue them.  This is one of the few times that I can say that the movie version was much more entertaining the book, the author was not able to describe the storm in the way that they were able to portray it in the film.  I just felt the writing was flat and the author was over matched in trying to tell such a fast moving and powerful story.	2002-04-19
1574092:US	41012519	R10PYW0WZ1IDQ6	0156006502	184843323	Scorpion Tongues: The Irresistible History of Gossip in American Politics	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Gossip &amp; Fun	This book is the greatest hits album of professional political muckrakers.  Just when you think that they can not come up with something more despicable you turn the page and - bang, one more story full of lies and broken careers.  The author lays the book out chronologically so that we start with the founding father and the hits just keep on coming all the way to the current high level of performance.  If you are interested in politics and follow the scene then this book is not some much shocking as it is full of \\"that's where they got it from\\".  If politics is a new hobby then your opinion of these stand up citizens will not drop lower.  Overall, this is a fun book that you finish quite quickly	2002-04-19
1574159:US	41012519	R371XSV7VOV6ZJ	0471395226	533286733	LBJ: A Life	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Author has a Bias	On reading a one-volume biography on an individual that had such a long career in public office you know that it is an overview, there is just not the pages to really go through the work he did.  If you are interested in LBJ you know that there are any number of books that focus on his decisions with the Viet Nam war and his record on civil rights laws.  There may be even a few that talk about his plan to assassinate JFK but they belong with in the fiction section.  What this book provides to the reader is a well-documented and constructed book that covers his life.  Personally I could have done with less on his life before the age of 18, but that is standard fair for a bio.   <br />The reader gets a good overview of the civil rights battles and laws LBJ fought for and put in place.   It covers this section rather well and it left me wondering if maybe the authors focused on this positive aspect of his LBJ's presidency to the detriment of his dealings with the war.  To be honest this was the section of the book I was most interested with and felt the authors could have done a better job and provided more detail.   <br />The book is a good overview of LBJ.  I felt the authors had a positive view of LBJ and if there were room for maneuver, they would take the road that left him in a more positive light.   This is a good, broad review geared for the reader that maybe just starting to look into LBJ or just wants a nice general overview.  If this is what you are looking for then this is the book for you.	2002-04-19
1574250:US	41012519	R19PFBTG5HLC1N	068482616X	27849242	The Choice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Love The Detail	Ok, I admit it; I am a big fan of Woodward.  I will read everything he puts out and probably enjoy it.  With that being said here is another book of his that I will profess to really enjoying.  For my money he is the best political writer in the business today.  He has so many contacts that many times in reading the book you could swear he has the White House bugged.  This book follows the Clinton team through the two years leading up to the 1996 presidential elections.  He does a great job of following both campaigns and paralleling the issues so that you get both sides.  You get all the standard Woodward items with the book, great details, wonderful he said - she said conversations that really make you feel like a fly on the wall, an easy to follow and well laid out book.<br />I have read the book All Too Human that George Stephanopoulos wrote and in the book he describes the interviewing technique of Woodward, he stated that Woodward has a great style of getting you comfortable with him and then before you know it you are spilling all the secrets.  What was also interesting is that Stephanopoulos wrote that Woodward audio tapes all of his interviews so that leads me to believe that the information in his books has not gone through a reporter taking notes loss of detail.  One last bit of info is the Stephanopoulos said that once \\"The Agenda\\" came out the Clinton's got so mad at George for all of the info he told Woodward that they basically shut him out for a year.  That must mean Woodward got it right.<br />A good follow up to this book is the Woodward book \\"The Agenda\\" which is the Clinton White House the first two years and the Elizabeth Drew book \\"Showdown: The Struggle between the Gingrich Congress and the Clinton White House\\", it picks up where The Agenda leaves off.  This is an interesting book that I really enjoyed.  If you like Woodward you will like this book, if you are interested in the first two years of the Clinton presidency then this is also a goodsource of information.	2002-04-19
1574255:US	41012519	R33U34OS3C05V7	0446610046	204741724	The Bodyguard's Story: Diana, the Crash, and the Sole Survivor	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Fast Read	My wife bought this book and I had no plans to even look through it.  That all changed once she started to detail to me some of the more interesting facts about the crash and what lead up to it.  The book covers the author's career as her bodyguard, the events preceding the crash and the events after the crash.  The most interesting parts for me were the details on how the protection team worked, the actual time line of events that day that lead up to he crash and then the horrible way he was treated after the crash.  Overall it is an interesting book that would interest the general reader as well as the royalist.	2002-04-19
1574429:US	41012519	R2AD0EZK8KJJES	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best Book Out There	Wow, this book will be the standard for combat reporting for maybe the next 20 years.  If the author gets royalties from each book that has on its dust jacket \\"just like Black Hawk Down\\", he will make a good living just from that.  If you are reading this review you probably have either heard about or seen the movie and now want to buy the book.  I have done both and the movie is very good, but it pails in comparison to this book.  The author has just done the most complete, detailed, tension filled true-life combat book there has been.   I can not say enough good things about this book nor do I have the skill to truly convey to you how excellent this book is.  Do yourself two favors - first buy the book, next lock yourself in a room and clear your calendar because you will not want to put the book down.	2002-04-19
1574503:US	41012519	R2UFIEVBRPXL4K	0316930164	838798147	All too Human	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very Good Look at the Process	I liked the title of the book because after you read it you come to think (at least I did) that the first part \\"All Too Human\\" deals with his old boss and the second part \\"A Political Education\\" deals with his experiences in the job.   The author (his name is too long to type) provides the reader with a short bio of his job search before joining the Clinton team - parts of the interview process was interesting.  He then takes us through the campaign, election and then his four years in the White House. <br />He provides the reader with a detailed and sometimes new view to the personalities of the people he worked with, the center of power if you will.  The facts and process of the campaign trail were very interesting as was the details on how legislation is created and passed between the Congress and White House.  For the person interested in gossip (I count myself in this group) we also get a good amount of stories and antidotes although probably not as scandalous or illegal as the far right would have liked to see. <BR>  <BR>The author wrote a very easy to read, warm and interesting book that has a lot of personality that comes through the writing.  This is his experience of his time in the campaign and political advisor roles so the story is focused on his perceptions and actions.  If you are looking for an overall detailed account of the election or the first four years in the Clinton White House I would suggest the Woodward books \\"The Agenda\\" and \\"The Choice\\" and the Elizabeth Drew book \\"Showdown: The Struggle between the Gingrich Congress and the Clinton White House\\".	2002-04-19
1574560:US	41012519	R2GL6F1G0T1KQV	0304354538	152951106	Cassell Military Classics: The Last Days of Hitler: Legend, Evidence and Truth	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Not a Bad Attempt	If you were so inclined to get a complete and accurate (as much as possible) telling of the last few weeks in the bunker with Hitler then I would suggest this book and The Bunker.  Both tell the story but The Bunker came out about 25 years ago and this book is somewhat new.  They, therefore, has some different takes on this information that was available at the time of the writing.  For the true World War 2 die-hard this presents an interesting opportunity to read through the two books and find the differences.     <br />Overall the book is primarily a retelling of The Bunker with a few new items tossed in.  The writing is not bad and the author has been able to spice it up with some suspense and action here and there.  The book is dark as there is nor way to make this subject matter anything but, so do not expect the feel good hit of the year.  This is an interesting book and if you are interested in the topic or want to know more this is not a bad buy.	2002-04-18
1574599:US	41012519	R47O423W0RWW	0691086273	488846081	The Gulf Conflict, 1990-1991: Diplomacy and War in the New World Order	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Good Overview	This is a very complete book about the Gulf War.  The author splits the book into two parts.  The first part follows the political process leading up to the air and ground war and the second part of the book covers the battle.  What is interesting with this book is that, as the author is from the UK, he tends to take a more worldview on his writing.  He does not just focus solely on the U.S. and Bush, but also covers the UK and EU positions.  This book is a nice complement to the book The Commanders by Woodward because of the focus of the Freedman book on the politics outside the US and the Woodward books focus on the U.S. side.<br />The coverage of the air and ground war is good but by no means the full story.  Given the space in the book dedicated to it, the author can only give you an overview.  Don't get me wrong, this overview is well down and informative.  The details he brings out from his contacts in the British military are a nice complement to the vast number of U.S. centered books on the market.  Overall if you are looking at a more complete understanding of the conflict this is a good book to have in your library.	2002-04-18
1574684:US	41012519	R1QM42DTHZQ6HZ	0425183009	110612181	Submarine: A Guided Tour Inside a Nuclear Warship (Tom Clancy's Military Reference)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wonderful Book	This is just a wonderful book on the topic.  Clancy and co have done a great job of taking the reader through the boats in question and really explaining the different types, parts, and jobs associated with a submarine.  Clancy also does a good job in explaining what it is like to live and work on one of these boats.  He also takes us through some of the training that takes place to get into the job.  He also adds a good amount of detail of what the typical types of missions these boats have today, what they did in the cold war and the possible missions upcoming.<br />I was surprised at the number of countries that also have submarines.  Clancy takes us through a long inventory of all the different countries that have submarines today, what kind of boat they are and what are the strengths and weaknesses of the model.  Another interesting part of the book was the description of all the countries currently making and selling submarines.  I was under the impression that there were very few countries engaged in this endeavor but I was wrong, it looks like any country that builds any kind of ships is also building submarines.<br />Overall this was an interesting, easy to read and very informative book.   If you are interested in submarines then this should be your first stopping point.   A good book well worth the money.	2002-04-18
1574703:US	41012519	R3PPDKPYO263J7	0671879197	795317754	Inside the White House	Books	2	5	9	N	N	More of the Same	Kessler really wants to be a hard-hitting reporter; he takes on the government at every chance he gets, the CIA, the FBI and now the President.  Unfortunately with this book he tended to pick the low hanging fruit and gave us more of the same old stuff, the \\"shocking but true\\" and the \\"they don't want you to find out\\" info.  He rattles off some well-used stories about many of the last holders of the office meant to show that power corrupts etc.  The only thing I found new was some of the descriptions of the everyday employees of the White House and their daily jobs.  Overall this is an average book.  I would suggest the better book would be \\"Shadow\\" by Woodward - not the best but an improvement over this book.	2002-04-18
1574722:US	41012519	R1ZAV64X7VABZO	0553573926	681381779	Vertical Run	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fast Paced and Fun	Hey, a new story.  In this category of books, it is getting a tough to find something new but this was.  I think I have had a few days like this - at least the part about the boss taking a shot at him.  This is a fun book with a new interesting plot.  Joe average all of a sudden has the world after him.   He then has to run for his life.  The book just keeps going and going.   I think this will always be this author's best books, I do not know how he will top it.  The story is very tight.   It had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is just a good old exciting book. The author peppers the book with plot twists that keep the reader on his toes.   This author writes in a way that is tight and slick that keep you interested through out.   Sit back and enjoy this book.	2002-04-18
1574758:US	41012519	R1BE24UJZRDAN	0813333636	335520304	The Buchenwald Report	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Powerful Book	This book is not for the faint of heart.  It is the United States government report on the Buchenwald concentration camp that was liberated by American forces during the end of the Second World War.  The book covers the state of the camp when it was liberated, the types of prisoners, the methods used to subdue and kill the prisoners, and the fate of the camp administration and guards once the camp was over run.  The book also has a number of camp diagrams and black and white photos.  <br />To say that this is a moving book only scratches the service the powerful emotions that the reader will face going through the text.  Although this was designed to be a government report, there is no way to document this period and situation without your emotions coming through in the writing and these author's prove that point.  The issue is a stark look at one of the worst examples of the inhumanity one people can inflict on another.  If you are interested in learning about the holocaust this is a good way to start, because it will give you an up front, no spin view of the actual conditions.	2002-04-18
1574771:US	41012519	R2Z8CK6TF53V6N	0964890917	452021497	Psychiatrists: The Men Behind Hitler	Books	3	9	18	N	N	Not For General Interest	In my opinion this book is not a user-friendly book for the general reader that is interested in the topic.  The book covers the start of the \\"Final Solution\\" by documenting how in the early 1930's many German psychiatrists were using sterilization, then major brain surgeries and finally death to treat children and adults that had any number of physical and mental conditions.  The book goes on to say that this because an excepted practice within the German government in dealing with these \\"less then perfect\\" people and eventually lead to the full scale use of the gas chambers at the death camps.   <br />The book is dealing with this topic from more of a clinical point of view.  The authors are doctors and they're writing style is more suited to a medical journal then a general interest book.   I would think this book would appeal mainly either to psychiatrists interested in the topic or someone that is doing research on the holocaust.	2002-04-18
1574778:US	41012519	R19I0SLRKL9W8O	0345390547	181492982	Den of Lions	Books	4	11	14	N	N	What a Waste of His Life	I do not want this to sound insensitive, but the one thing I kept thinking as I was reading this book is why was he there?  The U.S. government was telling U.S. citizens to leave, the Lebanese government did not care, his employer wanted him to leave, and there were increasing hostage incidents.  The book his the story of his capture and the seven years he spent as a captive of this militant group.  He does a good job in describing the locations he was in, the people that were his captors, and the other persons that he was with.  I thought the most interesting parts of the book detailed his conversations with some of his captors and their views on the situation.<br />The book is a very interesting view of what happened to the author.   The details are rich and he does a good job of painting the scenes for us.  He also did a good job of explaining the depression of being a captive and what it is like to loss seven years of your life, although I do not think any author could truly express the emotional pain that he must have gone through.   If you are interested in this part of the world or this story, this is a great book.   It is also interesting given the current climate in the Middle East to read about what was happening 20 years ago.	2002-04-18
1574885:US	41012519	RCVQ7ODN6GICY	0316821152	561092916	Special Tasks	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Interesting Work	This book was an interesting look at the KGB during the first part of the cold war.  I think we all have a view of the KGB, which was formed during the years of the cold war, a large, well run organization that many times was one step ahead of the U.S.  This author does not go against that view.  The author is relating his experiences in the arm of the KGB that was responsible for information gathering, primarily against the U.S. and NATO.  There are some interesting bits and you get a good look that this authors insight to \\"the game\\".   This book details what actually happened in the KGB during this time with an inside account of the methods of the KGB and a run down of some of the missions they took part in. <br />The author does a good job in providing the reader with many of the interesting tradecraft bit about the KGB.  Overall this is an interesting book that gives the espionage junky an another look into the KGB.  The book is well written and does not drag or stumble.  It keeps the readers interest through out.   If you are an armchair expert on the topic then this is another of the titles you will undoubtedly already have or will need to pick up.  If you are the general reader then this is a good broad description of the KGB that is interesting, but not the definitive one volume work.	2002-04-18
1574908:US	41012519	R2YUAR72HKRPBD	0804115486	335815295	Enigma	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Average Effort	I think he has put out much better books and this one was the first to really disappoint me.   The book is an average book, but I had just read Fatherland so this one was a let down.   The story was interesting and could have been one of the first major attempts to take on the code breaking by the UK in WW 2.  The staples of a Harris book are there, a great cast that you get to know, a well thought out story etc, I just came into the book expecting too much.  The author also tried to go down the path of the \\"dark, brooding\\" lead and he did not pull it off.   Overall, not that great of a book.   There are many others out there that are better.	2002-04-18
1575040:US	41012519	R28OA1BB7ODK0A	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	1	3	N	N	One of the Best	The author, Stephen E. Ambrose is considered one of if not the leading American historian concerning our involvement in World War 2.  He has recently received some bad press about &quot;borrowing&quot; information from other authors, but at this point I do not think that issue effects this book.  This book takes the reader through the full story of the D-Day invasions, from the training, planning and preparation all the way to the landing on the beaches and securing the beachheads.  The book is just wonderfully detailed and really paints a picture in the minds eye.  If there is one book that can compare to \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" in the tension and drama of the landings, this is it.  <br />The thing that I loved the most about the book was the immense amount of detailed information he gave us.  Ambrose is such a skilled writer that he can dictate lists in a compelling manner.  The story has much more then endless list of facts, Ambrose does a wonderful job of describing what the American GI went through, and from the food he ate to first hand accounts of some of the worse battles in the war.  I highly recommend this and his book Citizen Solders to get an accurate, detailed and very easy to read documentation of the American war effort in Europe the last year.  There is not better book on the topic.	2002-04-18
1575055:US	41012519	R2373EKWDBM8Y4	0025174215	535683258	The American West	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Good Overview	This book is really a good of short articles and stories (I am assuming here) pulled from other publications.  Because of this there is not a consistent theme that runs through the full book other then all the articles do have something to do with the American West - from ranch hands, cattle drivers and Indian's this book has it all.    What I found with this lack of consistent theme is that many of the articles just wet you appetite for more information on the given subject.  <br />The book does provide a good overall view of the American west during the settlement days.   The book is well written and is easy to get through.  If you have just a general interested in the topic or want a refresher course this is probably the book for you.   If you are looking for something more in depth you will probably come away disappointed.	2002-04-18
1575080:US	41012519	RCJVQWXCAHT4L	0312857772	486107501	The First Lady	Books	1	1	3	N	N	No More Please	It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more, the disjointed writing style or the plot that seamed to just be thrown together at the last minute.   I have to admit this was a sale table buy and I wish I had left it there.    After falling asleep three times while reading this book I decided it was not for me.   The worst part is that I could not seam to remember much about it at all, it left that little of an impression on you.  The story is just not inventive.  Unless you are a big fan of this author, my advice is the stay away.	2002-04-18
1575088:US	41012519	R3NYEBDY53UANT	0446517658	715516653	Thunder	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fast Paced and Fun	This is a murder mystery wrapped in with a CIA internal spy plot.   This author writes tight, slick books that keep you interested through out.  The good flow of the book and the fact that it keeps you interested is probably due to the skill of the author.  You are never in need of additional details with this author, he really fills the pages up, and for some I think this can be too much.  This really is a book that has two ' three very well developed and written plot twists that makes you stay on your toes.  I have reread the book and it is something how well he places the road signs.  This is an interesting book that combines espionage with a murder mystery.	2002-04-18
1575097:US	41012519	R8UGHBOTCVTFL	1574880225	382215	Embassies Under Siege: Personal Accounts by Diplomats on the Front Line (Institute for the Study of Diplomacy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Eye Opener	The premises of this book are that during the late 70\\" and 80's budget cuts decreased the amount of money the State Department could spend on the embassy program.  The cuts they chose to make were to the site security forces and the actual compound security equipment.  The book also gives the reader a nice little run down of all the attaches they have faced over the past 25 years.  <br />The most interesting parts of the book were the known safety issues that were brought up by embassy staff, but could not be corrected due to funding problems.   Then to correlate these safety issues with the events that have taken place or the past few years, it is chilling to see the mistakes that were made.  Overall this is an interesting book.	2002-04-18
1575133:US	41012519	R2B1FTQ788H71A	0679408193	216840772	Ablaze: The Story of the Heroes and Victims of Chernobyl	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good Account	This book covers the Chernobyl nuclear reactor melt down that took place back in the early 80's in the USSR.   The first third of the book covers what happened to cause the accident - an amazingly small human error for such a major problem.   The next third of the book covers the fighting of the fires, evacuation of the town and the closure of that part of the facility.   The last third of the book covers the political fallout for the incident.<br />Overall he details are very interesting and the author has done a very good job in pulling all the facts together.   You really can tell that this is a very well researched book.  The writing is not bad and the book follows a well-constructed path.  My only complaint would be that the last third of the book tends to drag a little due to the in depth coverage of the political aspects, due to it being USSR it is not always the most interesting for an American.   All in all, this is a good book that does a great job in describing the accident and the clean up.   The one thing you will take away from the book is that it is a wonder that this type of incident has not happened again.	2002-04-18
1575215:US	41012519	R2ZGQ5XEM40WT0	0684825511	327549643	Showdown: The Struggle Between the Gingrich Congress and the Clinton White House	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Soild Effort	Ok, I admit it; I am a political junky and a bit of a liberal.  I will tend to read anything political and probably enjoy it.  With that being said here is another book of his that I will profess to really enjoying.  This author has been writing these type of book sense the early 70's and you can tell she has it down cold.  She has so many contacts that many times in reading the book you could swear she has the Congress and White House bugged.  This book follows the Ginrich contract with American process and how it effects the Clinton team through the second two years that they are in office.  You get all the standard Drew items with the book, great details, wonderful he said - she said conversations that really make you feel like a fly on the wall, an easy to follow and well laid out book.<br />I have read the book \\"The Agenda\\" and \\"The Choice\\" by Woodward and this book is a nice book in the middle of the two.  If you through in \\"All Too Human\\" that George Stephanopoulos wrote and you have an excellent view of the first four years of the Clinton Presidency.  This is an interesting book that I really enjoyed.  If you like political books then you will like this book, if you are interested in the second two years of the Clinton presidency then this is also a good source of information.	2002-04-18
1575336:US	41012519	RNNJP9Y0S40VV	0449225151	474485511	Place Called Freedom	Books	2	74	86	N	N	The Book That Never Ends	I am a bit disappointed in the author after reading this book.   I think he was trying to build on the success that he had with Pillars of the Earth but this book falls far short of that classic.  This book is more like a [$] mass-market teen-age Romance novel.   There is nothing new hear except maybe the name, the plot is so predictable it is sad coming from such a good author.  I knew how this book was going to end before it even started.  He has written much better books, I would stay away from this book unless you are looking for a long love story.	2002-04-18
1575547:US	41012519	R3KN0H9UWH49J6	0679425594	166401291	Tracking the Jackal: The Search for Carlos, the World's Most Wanted Man	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not all that Great Now Was He	This book covers the career and capture of one of the best known terrorist from the 70's and 80's.  The book does a nice job of tells the reader who \\"The Jackal\\" was and what he did to get the reputation that he has.  It was a nice PR job by him.  We have a run down of the terrorist operations that can actually be credited to the Jackal although the book describes that there are a larger number that were claimed to be the Jackal that were not.  <br />We also get an inside view of what the real man was like.  He is represented in the book to be more of an egomaniac that was really just looking for fame and money then leading a deep felt political cause.  The author describes the police operations to hunt him down and the operation that place to actually capture the man.  We also get a good overview of what life is like in a French prison.   Overall this is an interesting book and one that may be the definitive account of he The Jackal outside of the hype.  If you are interested in this topic this is a good book.	2002-04-18
1575563:US	41012519	R1PEN5JWG0XM60	0679772685	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	4	12	25	N	N	Powerful and Gripping	This book is not for the faint of heart.  It takes a look at the German nation as a whole to determine if the Holocaust was really due to only a few people in control and everybody else just following orders.   The book covers what happened to the Jews from the early 30's and the continual and progressive \\"lessening\\" of the Jews as members of the society and their being relegated to the status of basically rats.   The book tells the story of what the camps were like, the towns and cities they were either in or close to, and the interaction the local populations had with the camps.   <br />The book makes a very convincing and well thought out case that in order to perform the Holocaust, it took the concerted effort of all organizations of the government to make the Jews less then normal people and to keep increasing the levels of violence against them.   In the end, the average German followed along and participated in this process not because he / she were scared or just ultra obedient to the government or military, but because the organizations that set the common morals and laws in the society were telling the citizens that this was the correct and proper way of the world.   This situation was not new in history, there are many examples of this process and outcome, and this was just the first that had TV coverage.<br />To say that this is a moving book only scratches the service the powerful emotions that the reader will face going through the text.  Although this was designed to be a un-bias report, there is no way to document this period and situation without your emotions coming through in the writing and these author's prove that point.  The issue is a stark look at one of the worst examples of the inhumanity one people can inflict on another.  If you are interested in learning about the holocaust this is a good way to start, because it will give you an up front, no spin view of the actual conditions	2002-04-18
1575568:US	41012519	R3OA74VLXK39DZ	0195085574	86651291	American Holocaust: The Conquest of the New World	Books	5	30	46	N	N	Powerful History Leson	Wow, this is the history lesson I did not get in school.  This author examines the European conquest of the American continents and the effect on the native peoples.  When reading this book the first thing you notice is the author's compassion for the Native American's.  He spends the first chapter talking about the rich diversity of Indian cultures in America.  A part of American history that I did not have a complete view of from school.   I was surprised at the vast numbers of different tribes and the advances in their societies.  They were different from the Europeans, but that did not make their societies any less successful or important.  The author does a good job here, but due to the subject matter of the book; it can only scratch the surface.  A good follow up to this book would be a more detailed examination of the Indian cultures.<br />The second section of the book focuses on the mass killing that took place by the Europeans.  There is not a nice way to spin it; they killed millions of people through viruses, starvation and straight out killing.  Each time I read a book about human atrocities it always amasses me that people can be so cruel and heartless.    This section of the book is not for the weak, it is a straight forward and shocking explination of what the European's did to the native populations.  Just so us Americans do not feel too superior, there is also a good amount of detail of what our military forces did and what the politicians were saying.  To think that the leaders of the day that we so proudly hold up as beacons of our society held these views and facilitated or directed this genocide is really shocking. <br />The last part of he book focuses on trying to explain how and why people can do these horrendous acts.  The boils down to a basic that was scene more recently in World War 2 Germany and the war in the 90's in Yugoslavia.  The leaders keep a constant flow of dogma going to the people that portrays the people that are having thegenocide performed on them as less then human.  <BR> <BR>Overall this is powerful book that will keep you thinking for a long time to come.   The writing is descriptive and well done.	2002-04-18
1575578:US	41012519	R1E7SAF8Y68V0U	006017742X	734955643	Night of the Apocalypse	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not a Bad Story	This book combines a good old murder mystery with a bunch of Middle Eastern terrorists for a book long gunfight.  This is a good book. It had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is just a good old exciting book. The author peppers the book with plot twists that keep the reader on his toes.   This author writes in a way that is tight and slick that keep you interested through out.  This is a solid murder mystery.  Just do not get used to any of the characters, because they do not last long.   Ok, so the detective that is used is straight from central casting, but that book is not bad.  The story comes together and you believe it.  I would have liked a bit more depth on the locations and characters, but not a bad read.	2002-04-18
1575587:US	41012519	RRYCFL2CG4VTA	078610970X	437473421	The Twelve Caesars (Ancient History)	Books	2	4	18	N	N	Not For The General Reader	This book is trying to give an overview of each of the twelve Roman Caesars.  Overall I was looking for more of an exciting telling of the story with some action, suspense, and maybe a little decadence thrown in for good measure.  What I got was a textbook best suited for a college campus.  The writing was so labored I wondered why the author chose this line of work, recipes have more punch and creativeness in the writing.  I truly struggled to get to the half way point of the book before I gave up.  Now let me add that this is not a main interest topic for me so maybe my review is not reflective of a person that is really into the Roman's.	2002-04-18
1575606:US	41012519	R2HR6391JIOJHE	0312136005	911860806	Senator for Sale: An Unauthorized Biography of Senator Bob Dole	Books	1	15	24	N	N	Not That Smart of a Book	Looks like the anti - Dole forces have found their Kitty Kelly in this \\"Unauthorized\\" tabloid look at good old Bob.  The book follows the normal pattern for these type of books: start out in he early years with some unsubstantiated nastiness about his personal life or ex wife, move up to \\"shady\\" political deals as he crawls his way up the Washington power ladder, and then end the book with the run down of pork spending and speakers fees.  All this plus a bunch of good old Bob Dole straight talking quotes.  <br />For the Dole fan like me this book is nothing more then a smear campaign book meant to hurt the candidate and make the author some money.  If you do not like Dole, this will be a rip roaring good time for you.  Overall, the book is about what you except - lowest common denominator trash written for the person with a lower then average IQ.	2002-04-18
1575665:US	41012519	R12K10MOQOMT0B	1557507643	37783960	Tower of Secrets: A Real Life Spy Thriller	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Cold War Fun	This book was an interesting look at the KGB during the first part of the cold war.  I think we all have a view of the KGB, which was formed during the years of the cold war, a large, well run organization that many times was one step ahead of the U.S.  This author does not go against that view.  The author is relating his experiences in the arm of the KGB that was responsible for information gathering, primarily against the U.S. and NATO.  There are some interesting bits and you get a good look that this authors insight to \\"the game\\".   This book details what actually happened in the KGB during this time with an inside account of the methods of the KGB and a run down of some of the missions they took part in. <br />The author does a good job in providing the reader with many of the interesting tradecraft bit about the KGB.  Overall this is an interesting book that gives the espionage junky an another look into the KGB.  The book is well written and does not drag or stumble.  It keeps the readers interest through out.   If you are an armchair expert on the topic then this is another of the titles you will undoubtedly already have or will need to pick up.  If you are the general reader then this is a good broad description of the KGB that is interesting, but not the definitive one volume work.	2002-04-18
1575732:US	41012519	RL188DNOGVMS4	0760304009	105279133	Black Box: Why Air Safety Is No Accident	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Average Job	I must be a rubber-necker to the highest degree because I always enjoy these type of books. It has the standard fair, nothing really new on the format. The author does give us a good amount of detail, which she is known for. I would always like more photos, but there is enough to tell the story.  If you like this type of book then you will enjoy this one.	2002-04-18
1575856:US	41012519	R34SDCW1FZ2A7A	0451185196	745684315	Black Cross	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Gripping, Fast Read	If you have read some of the authors books in the past you have a good idea of what you are going to get.   An easy to read and understandable book that is full of action. This is an overall great book, it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book.   It really made me happy reading the book; it was like a great game of treasure hunt where you find everything.  Each time I was ready for a plot twist, action of drama it was there.   The characters just explode in your memory - you do not get them out of your head.  Overall this was a great effort.	2002-04-18
1575998:US	41012519	R2BYQ2VFWU78VR	067178658X	531622442	The FBI: Inside the World's Most Powerful Law Enforcement Agency	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Average But Fair	This is another around the world in 8 days tour of an American institution by Kessler.  The author is presenting a book that is billed as basically an overview of the FBI as it is today with some history through in to give it some background and a few real life cases peppered through out the book for spice.  The author has always done a good job in these large overview books and he has maintained that level here.  <br />He has been working with contacts from this agency for years so there is some interesting inside info that will be new to the reader, but a lot of the really interesting stuff has been spelled out in an number of other books or TV programs.  The book is a well written and constructed story with a good road map though the years and departments.  The reader does not get lost in a jumble of department abbreviations.  A good overview book that is probably what most readers are looking for.	2002-04-17
1576010:US	41012519	R3BQPOCLKF4HS2	0275946339	462114198	KGB: Death and Rebirth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots of Detail	This book was an interesting look at the organization over the past ten years.  I think we all have a view of the KGB which was formed during the years of the cold war, a large, well run organization that main times was one step ahead of the U.S.  This book details what happened to the KGB after the USSR turned back into Russia and the coup was put down.  It details the house cleaning of the top, long time KGB officials that took place after the coup and how that is changing the focus of the organization.   It also goes on to detail the new focus of the KGB from 100% focus on the U.S. and NATO to one that also takes into its portfolio internal issue as organized crime and terrorist threats.  The author also does remind the reader that even though the relationship between the U.S. and Russia has increasingly become warmer; there is still a high level of focus on the U.S. by the KGB.<br />Overall this is an interesting book that keeps the espionage junky up to date with what is going on inside the KGB.  The book will probably become dated in a few years, but it should be up to date for now.  The book is well written and keeps the readers interest through out.	2002-04-17
1576033:US	41012519	R1TN4WMG8PX2YN	0060176350	446343385	The Other Side of Deception: A Rogue Agent Exposes the Mossad's Secret Agenda	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Very Interesting	This is the authors follow up to his first book \\"By Way of Deception\\".  Whereas his first book was focused on his recruitment and training in the Mossad, this book focuses on the operations the Mossad perform.  The value of this book is both to understand how the Israeli \\"CIA\\" works around the world and in there homeland, but also (and maybe now more importantly) to understand the forces that they are up against.<br />For the espionage reader out there this is a very interesting book, because not many books have come out by real life former agents of the Mossad, and the Mossad are touted as one of if not the best organization of its kind.  I also enjoyed the details of how the opposition (i.e. terrorists) works against the Mossad.  There are some interesting insights to what the Israeli's are up against.<br />Overall this is a good follow up to his book and if you are interested in espionage, the Mossad or just the Middle East then this is a book that you will get a lot of enjoyment out of.	2002-04-17
1576083:US	41012519	R1TL3GXM7CND3X	0812524527	67902552	Desert Fire (McGarvey)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Fun	This book has German's, Iraqis, the PLO, WW 2 war criminals and Nuclear bombs - - what more could an action reader want?  The story is one were the German government is providing to the Iraqis a nuclear reactor.  The Germans want the money and the Iraqis want to build the bomb, what could go wrong?  Well all is going well until a few people turn up murdered and the mystery solving begins.<br />The story runs all over the Middle East and Europe, the main character is a dark guy just trying to get this on solved and to get back home.   Over all the tail is interesting and fast moving, and given what we hear on the news it could have some very real parts.  Overall this is an all around good book, well worth your time.	2002-04-17
1576112:US	41012519	R1LSCF2KQOVTR5	0679430946	905671096	The Hot Zone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gripping Story	Remind me never to go to Africa.  The author details what has got to be the worst decease out there - Ebola.  The book starts out describing an outbreak in Africa and what the decease does to the human body.  This was the most engrossing and fast moving part of the book.  He really does a wonderful (if you can use that word in this case) of describing what happens to you once you get this bug and the massive fear an outbreak causes.  The author then tells us about a similar outbreak that took place in the U.S. at a test facility on monkeys and then goes on to talk about what would happen if this broke out in the U.S.<br />Overall just a great, fast paced read.   The author does a super job in explaining the somewhat complicated medical causes and symptoms of this decease.  My concern in picking up the book would be that it would be written for a Ph.D. but it is not, everybody can understand what is happening and why.  You will be glad you read this book.	2002-04-17
1576357:US	41012519	RDRT4CZD5MP2Z	0785752552	447433614	Cause of Death	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Not a Feel Good Hit	Warning, you have to be just a bit morbid to pick up this book.  The dust jacket says it all, this author has dug through the autopsy reports of some famous people to find the \\"real\\" cause of death.  Keeping the tabloid effort of the publisher aside, this is a somewhat interesting book if only from a \\"looking at an accident\\" form of macabre curiosity.  As far as the writing goes, the author does a good job of keeping the complex medical terminology down to a minimum and when used is careful to explain them in layman's terms.  Overall interesting and well-written if you are in to this type of book.	2002-04-17
1576430:US	41012519	R3RZ24NXLKLD37	0803279493	330354827	The Assassination of Lincoln: History and Myth (Bison Book)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Interesting and Well Written Book	I picked this book up after I read \\"April 1865\\" because I wanted to know more about the assassination of Lincoln.  The book is a very interesting account of what took place.   This is a reprint of a book that originally came out in the 1920's and that made it even more interesting.  I enjoyed the book on two fronts.  First the author does a very good job of detailing out the plot to kill Lincoln, the actors involved, the reasons behind it, the actual event and then the capture of the assassins.<br />There is just a great amount of details that, being an American; I am ashamed I did not know.  Overall this was not a lone gunman, but a large-scale plot to kill the top three members of the U.S. government at the time.  Sure the group performing this assassination was not the best and brightest, but they got the job done.  The details of the escape, flight and then capture of Both is also full of detail that really brings the story to a new level.  The added information about the capture and punishment of the rest of the group was also very interesting.<br />On the second front, what I also enjoyed about the book was the view of the 1920's through the writing of the author.  When someone writes a book like this, there are bound to be examples and coalitions to the \\"current\\" day and in the case of this book it was the 1920's.  That was very interesting and an added bonus to the book.  Overall I enjoyed this book and learned a great deal from it.   I would suggest it.	2002-04-17
1576452:US	41012519	R9PDGP912EPH4	0583122485	369595986	House of Dolls	Books	3	8	20	N	N	I Wanted More Information	I was rather disappointed with this book.  The author is describing her time during he holocaust and in the camps.  She was made to become a prostitute.  I know that stating that I was disappointed in the book is probably not politically correct, but it is honest.  Sure the book is full of heart breaking stories of what she and millions more went through.  There are some details of here personal experiences.  I just felt that the author was scratching the surface, I wanted a richer, more detailed account of her time there.  Overall I thought it was an average book, but about 100 pages too short.	2002-04-17
1576521:US	41012519	R1X04IP8H9LE4W	0312114265	480968633	The First Directorate: My 32 Years in Intelligence and Espionage Against the West	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not Bad	This book is another in the long line of books to come out of the former USSR after the clod war came to an \\"end\\".  The author is relating his experiences in the arm of the KGB that was responsible for information gathering, primarily against the U.S. and NATO.  If you have read a number of these books in the past there is not a great deal of new information in the book.  There are some interesting bits and you get a good look that this authors insight to \\"the game\\".  If you are an armchair expert on the topic then this is another of the titles you will undoubtedly already have or will need to pick up.  If you are the general reader then this is a broad description of the subject, but not the definitive one volume work.	2002-04-17
1576543:US	41012519	RT4E2G478Y2Z0	0451177185	16467567	Winter Fire	Books	4	8	8	N	N	New Idea	This is an interesting story not normal for World War 2 fiction.   There is more music then weapons fire and more conversations then action scenes.  It might even be called the thinking man's World War two novel.  You have a full time conductor that is a part time German Nazi due to the war who is sent to Finland to work on convincing the local population that Hitler is one of the good guys.   The author gives us a great view of Finland and details on the war effort with Russia.   <BR>It is a well-written book that has a difficult to pull off story line (by this I mean to keep it interesting for 350 pages), but the author gets it done.   If you find a copy of the book it is interesting and different from the normal fair in the category.	2002-04-17
1576605:US	41012519	R1W79HLEDXPUGZ	0316743003	826475526	Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Book	I just love books like this.  I think it stems from the fact that I always wanted to be a jet pilot.  The book takes a look at the secret domain of the black projects the military has funded in relation to intelligence gathering and stealth aircraft over the past 35 years.  The books focus is on the Lockheed Martin Skunk Works facility and the great aircraft they have developed and put out during the cold war.  The most interesting parts of he book for me were the development of the SR 71, the testing of the aircraft and the uniqueness of the aircraft.  I also enjoyed the descriptions of what the U2 can do.   <br />All in all this is a very informative and well-written account of some of the most exciting aircraft the U.S. has created and used in military operations.   The details flow very well and do not bog the book down with too much technical speak.  If you were interested in aircraft or the U.S. military then I would suggest you buy this book.	2002-04-17
1576645:US	41012519	R1LDFRW8LFJQ3Z	0805056483	589993698	Plotting Hitler's Death: The Story of German Resistance	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Very Good Book	The author of this book, Joachim Fest, is one of the better know of the German World War 2 historians so I was expecting a well researched and factual book.  What I found was just that.  Fest first takes us through a history of a number of the failed plots and people responsible before sending the second half of the book on the plot that actually got the closest with a bomb blast injuring Hitler.   Fest describes the set up of the plot, what was to take place after the assassination in regards to taking control of the German government and the assumptions of what would happen with the war.  We also get a chapter on what happened to the members of the plot once it failed.<br />Overall this is an interesting and well-constructed book.  The information is laid out in an organized and easy to understand method.  The writing is better then you expect from a historian, it flows through the story.   The book is a good one volume accounting of the attempts on Hitler's life and, unless you are a true historian of the issues, is about all one needs to understand and appreciate it.   If you are interested in World War 2 this is a good pick up.	2002-04-17
1576691:US	41012519	R22MPD5XM4BKSG	080211458X	277578551	Tankers Full of Trouble: The Perilous Journey of Alaskan Crude	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Exceting, Fast Paced Wonderful Book	This was a very entertaining book that kept the readers interest from page one to the end.   The author takes us into a world that very few people know much about and does it in a very engaging way.  The book details what life is like on the oil supertankers that move oil between Alaska and Washington.  The bit that makes this book so great is that this part of the world's oceans is one of the worst in terms of weather and rough seas, kind of like the Perfect Storm all year around.  Because of this hard and dangerous environment these ships are built to take the punishment and the crews have very difficult jobs.  <br />The author does a great job in describing the ships, the routes and the dangers they face.  We also get an inside view of what it is like to work in one of the most dangerous jobs in the world of shipping.  What struck me was that there are a number of foreign flagged ships that are working in this area and these countries and ships have far fewer safety regulations then the U.S. so a good number of these sailors get washed over board or injured in other ways.  <br />This is just a good old fashion interesting and exciting book that would be enjoyed by many readers, not just readers that have an interest in the oil business.  I suggest you give this book a try, you will be glad you did.	2002-04-17
1576765:US	41012519	ROG7JAA2TMY1Z	0451179803	959014913	Spandau Phoenix: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best of the Type	This is by far this author's best book.  It takes the Rudolf Hess story and uses it for the base of a wonderful story.   The story centers on a chase after a set of papers that may have been written by Hess and it has everybody form the CIA to the Mossad after them.  It is just a great thrill ride of a story.  I can just not say enough wonderful things about this book; it is well written and fast paced.   Even though it is a big book (and you will be glad for that) it is difficult to put down.  The characters are very well developed and have rich personalities that come through the writing.  The book is just good and it is better the second time you read it.  Do your self a favor and buy it today.	2002-04-17
1576819:US	41012519	R360JK209VWK5P	0671864866	816641308	The Agenda: Inside the Clinton White House	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Big Fan	Ok, I admit it; I am a big fan of Woodward.  I will read everything he puts out and probably enjoy it.  With that being said here is another book of his that I will profess to really enjoying.  For my money he is the best political writer in the business today.  He has so many contacts that many times in reading the book you could swear he has the White House bugged.  This book follows the Clinton team through the first two years that they are in office.  You get all the standard Woodward items with the book, great details, wonderful he said - she said conversations that really make you feel like a fly on the wall, an easy to follow and well laid out book.<br />I have read the book All Too Human that George Stephanopoulos wrote and in the book he describes the interviewing technique of Woodward, he stated that Woodward has a great style of getting you comfortable with him and then before you know it you are spilling all the secrets.  What was also interesting is that Stephanopoulos wrote that Woodward audio tapes all of his interviews so that leads me to believe that the information in his books has not gone through a reporter taking notes loss of detail.  One last bit of info is the Stephanopoulos said that once this book came out the Clinton's got so mad at George for all of the info he told Woodward that they basically shut him out for a year.  That must mean Woodward got it right.<br />A great follow up to this book is the Elizabeth Drew book \\"Showdown: The Struggle between the Gingrich Congress and the Clinton White House\\", it picks up where The Agenda leaves off.  This is an interesting book that I really enjoyed.  IF you like Woodward you will like this book, if you are interested in the first two years of the Clinton presidency then this is also a good source of information.	2002-04-17
1576937:US	41012519	R16CIW05TDO49G	0061096644	861222021	Underboss	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Interesting Goon	A person with an ego like this has to be in the mob or politics.  Sammy chose the mob.  Peter Mass does his usual solid effort here back on the turf that made his name, the Mafia.  The author performs the obligatory life history of Sammy starting with his (you guessed it) tough child hood.  You get the impression this is the first in the main excuses Sammy tries to place in the book to some how justify his murderous ways.   We get a review of his time as the major player in the family he was involved in with a run down of some of his more interesting crimes.  <br />Then we are finished off with some kind of tough guy \\"I'm not a rat\\" excuse as to why he decided to work for the FBI in the Gotti prosecution.  One almost got he impression that he was trying to limit the number of hit men out on the trail for him.  <BR>All in all, this book is what you would expect, an interesting and grim look at someone on the fringe of society.  It is a good book, but probably not destine to be on any top ten lists.  If you are interested in the Mob or Sammy then this is well worth your time.	2002-04-17
1576948:US	41012519	RR5M6IZGUOBSU	0679746641	606133912	Fields of Battle: The Wars for North America	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Overview of these Four Wars	The author, John Keegan is a noted British historian that has spent most of his time on European warfare.  It was interesting to see what he was going to come up with in this study of the battles primarily in the U.S.  The book opens with something probably all American's will enjoy, a chapter talking about how much he loves American and the particular reasons why, maybe this was just a buttering up technique so that we would buy the book?  He then covers four major battles / wars that have taken place in North America, the French Indian War, the American Revolutionary war, the American Civil War and the American Indian Wars.<br />Obviously whole books or series of books can and have been dedicated to these particular topics so the reader should be prepared for just a light overview of each of the wars.  Keegan takes the reader into one particular point or battle within each war after giving the reader a very good brief on why the war is taking place, the parties involved and then the outcome.  He does a very good job here with this overview.<br />Overall the book is easy to read and interesting.  The beginning chapter will make you happy just reading it and the good feelings will remain with you through out the book.  This book is much lighter and less detailed then many of his other works so it does serve as a good introduction to the author.	2002-04-17
1577029:US	41012519	RKNLEUZI801ZT	0440205190	342633307	Goering's List	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fun Fiction	This is a fun and fast paced World War 2 based current day book that actually works.   The author has the CIA, the Mossad and the Stasi all after some old masters that were stolen by guess whom?  The author has done a good job here, the characters are well developed and there are enough sub plots to keep you interested but not to overwhelm the central story.    I was concerned with the number of people running around, maybe dropping a few would have done the book good and the biggest issue I have is the love story.  Why have this in the book?   It is not needed, rushed and just done poorly.   Overall I thought the book was above average and interesting.	2002-04-17
1577035:US	41012519	R3W0K2HOTE0ENP	0671781871	677541735	Nightmare on Wall Street: Salomon Brothers and the Corruption of the Marketplace	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Very Dry and Dull	I would term this book a nightmare. This book is about as dry as three day old non-buttered toast.  The authors premises is that the activity on Wall Street during the 80's - the junk bond M & A items will kill corporations due to the debit levels thus decimate the equities markets.  Not that this is that unique of a thought and the book only gets duller from that point.  I picked this book up because I wanted to learn something, but the wooden writing turned me off so much I finally had to close the book after the longest 100 pages in my life.  Unless you are a relative or friend of the author I would suggest continuing to look for other titles.	2002-04-17
1577044:US	41012519	R3RZGA71SWTNCR	0671883976	477341743	Washington Station: My Life as a KGB Spy in America	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not Bad, Just Not The Best	I think this author was trying to get some [easy] recognition with the title he chose, maybe making the reader think it was similar to the Kessler book Moscow Station.  Unfortunately for this author that is where the similarity ends.  The author was the KGB station Chief for the Washington D.C. USSR embassy for a number of years during the cold war.   He promises on the dust jacket to provide the reader with an inside account of the methods of the station and a run down of the missions they took part in.  <br />The author does a good job in providing the reader with many of the interesting tradecraft bit about the KGB in the U.S. and how they operated in Washington D.C. against the FBI.  The author also does give us some insight to a few of the operations that the KGB ran; it just seams to me that this is a sanitized version of the events.  I wanted more details on the intelligence they were able to gather and more of the operations they ran.  I finished the book think this was a nice first step, but a fuller \\"confession\\" was needed.  <br />Overall, the book is adequately written and does not drag or stumble.  If you are interested in KGB operations in the U.S. then this is a nice start, but definitely the definitive account	2002-04-17
1577125:US	41012519	R3KBJB5KJRS2EW	0316515019	62193578	The Last American Aristocrat: The Biography of Ambassador David K.E. Bruce, 1898-1977	Books	1	3	9	N	N	Save Yourself The Time	The book should have been called sleep inducing.  Blah, basically what we have here is a 350 page boring article about who this guy met in his life - the bigger the name the more pages.  I came away after reading half of the book wondering how this thing ever got the green light.   You will not learn much here.  Save your time and money.	2002-04-16
1577228:US	41012519	RA3VOZAJCWO8A	0312129920	788010847	Accidentally, On Purpose: The Making of a Personal Injury Underworld in America	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Please Get a Job	What a bunch of low life criminals.  I bought this book as a lark, but came away mad.  The energy some people put into getting your money is almost more then if they went out and got a job.  This book is basically a history of all the most popular scams and con men in America over the last 200 years.  The author must have spent a tremendous amount of time in researching the book because it is very detailed.  If there is a scam out there and not in this book then I doubt it made money.  The writing is good with an easy to read pace and sentence structure.  My only complaint was the amount of detail, at times I got a little tired of hearing about the 5th best guy at the so and so scam.  The book could have used a little more aggressive editing.  With that said, if you are interested in scams you will get a lot of entertainment out of this book.	2002-04-16
1577268:US	41012519	RCQ906NUCL5MC	0385493029	464430501	Misconceptions: Truth, Lies, and the Unexpected on the Journey to Motherhood	Books	2	4	8	N	N	A Little Over The Top	Just so that you are aware, I am not a woman. Now that this fact is out of the way I can tell you that this book was a gift to my wife who is expecting. I also read parts of the book, but could not complete it all. I think that if you have ever read any of her other books they are all probably about the same. What this book gives you is a very negative view of the medical process in giving birth in American. I think what was so interesting is that we live in Europe and a close relative of ours is also expecting in American so we get to see and compare the two different systems at work. The European system is more family friendly, but is not the utopia the author describes, just like the American system is no medieval house of tortures she professes it be. <br />I came away from the book thinking that the author has got to be one of the most spoiled brats ever to become unselfish enough to give birth. I would think the best use of this book would be that of birth control given the extremely negative view she presents. Unless you like to look for the worst in every situation or just like to blame all the worlds' ills on big business then I would stay away from this book. There is enough stress involved with giving birth; you do not need this reactionary diatribe to add to your stress	2002-04-16
1577298:US	41012519	RTY792ZCN7K8C	0895264064	845084509	Unlimited Access : An FBI Agent Inside the Clinton White House	Books	1	28	87	N	N	Trash	Wow, the level a hatred this author has for President Clinton is off the charts.  I picked this book up as a sale item thinking there maybe be something fun and interesting in it.  What I got was about 50% petty complaining, 40% personal hatred and 10% pure fantasy.  I mean the biggest gripe this guy has is that the Clinton administration was not that good at turning paper work around, this was not the national crisis issue the author tried to make it out to be.  And the lies, they must have been the only way he thought he could sell the books.  <br />I am glad that I read this book after the Clinton presidency when there was a lot of other material to counter balance this diatribe that would have made the best Nazi propaganda writers stand up and take notice.  If you hate Clinton then this book will warm your heart, if you are neutral or like the former President then do yourself a favor and stay away.	2002-04-16
1577379:US	41012519	RR8U15R3R7W7X	0316511579	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium, An Englishman's World	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I Need my Coffee in the Morning	Gross, that is what I think of how people lived back then, it would be like you are on the longest camping trip ever except only I set of clothes, no sleeping bag or tent and no potable CD player.    How did people live like that, then again that is probably what the people in the year 1000 thought about the cave men?  This book does a wonderful job in describing what the average city and farm person went through in his normal daily grind back in the year 1000.  The author paints a rich, detailed picture of what the life was like from the food they ate to the set up of the common mans house.  This is just a fun book to read.  There are no heavy scientific terms even though one of the authors is a scientist.  If you have an interested in what was life like back in the \\"old days\\" then this is a great place to start.  It is an enjoyable book that will hold its interest and value for years to come.	2002-04-16
1577417:US	41012519	R2BWIFOJXTKGZJ	0304354503	697234012	Cassell Military Classics: Hitler's Enforcers: Leaders of the German Machine 1939 -1945	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Overview	This book covers the better bunch of Germans that held high positions in the German military during World War 2 outside of the death camps and groups.  The book provides an adequate description of each of the people with a view to making their activities as notorious as possible.  I would have liked a little more lively writing style.  It seamed to me that the book was wooden.  I wanted more punch.  We are talking here of the greatest, most wide ranging war that has ever been fought, give me a little drama.  I was not looking for a graduate level test book and that is what I think I received.  Overall, it is another review of some of the major players of WW 2 German military, if you have not read a book on this topic then this will provide you that back ground.	2002-04-16
1577498:US	41012519	RC1TKGVKHYSVE	1854094726	447565613	Hitler's War: German Military Strategy 1940-1945	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Nothing New	This book is about as dry as three day old non-buttered toast.  Ok so the author is a leader in his field in Austria, that does not necessarily mean he can write.  The book is a review of the key German strategic decisions in the period of 1940-1944 and takes those decisions apart to see if be changing a few items, could Germany have won WW 2.  There are some very good reviews here on the substance of the book so I will forgo yet one more.  My issues with the book are two: first the items he brings up are really not that new, I think even many of the participants of the battles themselves could see the errors of their (or their leaders) ways while they were implementing them.  I guess I wanted a book to tell me what could have been done once the major decisions had been put into action.  Could the push for Stalingrad when completed?<br />Secondly I just wanted a little more lively writing style.  I know that the book was translated, and there are no glaring errors, but it seamed to me that it also produced a text that was wooden.  I wanted more punch.  We are talking here of the greatest, most wide ranging war that has ever been fought, give me a little drama.  I was not looking for a graduate level test book and that is what I think I received.  Overall it is another review of the major errors of WW 2, if you have not read a book on this topic then this will provide you that back ground.	2002-04-16
1577528:US	41012519	R15WP9QD8CM282	0061095982	605294170	In Contempt	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Just the Facts	There are a number of reviews here that talk about this books outline and no shortage of comments on the main subjects guilt or innocence.  I, therefore, will just tell you my impressions of the book.   All I wanted was details on the trial; I really did not care about his upbringing, college days, or pre trial work experience.  As far as the trail info went, it was worth wading through the aforementioned items.   The book just had a ton of good old fashion, gossip style details and facts that kept me interested until the end.  The writing style was good and fast paced.  The author also did a very good job of explaining his feelings throughout the book.  To lose on such an important manner and in such a public way can be sole destroying and the author does a very credible job of describing it.  Overall the book is interesting and well worth the time to read it.	2002-04-16
1577554:US	41012519	R3OLM95W0W3JDG	0472108190	929526617	Bathing in Public in the Roman World	Books	3	6	34	N	N	Not For Me	I took a chance with this book because of a positive review I heard about it on CSPAN.   The title of the book fairly accurately describes the substance of the book, the cultural significance of the baths in the Roman society.  The book is full of very interesting facts about the actual buildings themselves, the customs involved in the process, the people you would encounter and more.  The author does a good job of writing the book, she keeps out of the \\"I'm a professor and you are not\\" type of writing where you feel about a foot tall after the first chapter.  She tells a story in a way that the general reader can follow along.  With all that said, I still did not overly enjoy this book and the reason for that is really that I am only marginally interested in the Roman world.  I tried to force a book on myself because the reviews were good.   If you are interested in the Roman world I am sure you will enjoy this book, if you are like me and this is a passing phase then you may be suited with something else.	2002-04-16
1577627:US	41012519	R8NS5M3VPCX45	0760303231	355258692	German Aircraft of World War II	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Average	This book covers some of the more interesting aircraft the Germans used during World war Two including the planes they stuck jet engines on including the little known bomber.  Overall it is a nice, colorful overview designed to give one a useful overview and maybe wet your appetite for something more.  The pictures and diagrams are well laid out and captioned and the writing is easy to read.	2002-04-16
1577675:US	41012519	R1RZK9ME6QB2PM	0394585143	21767508	Molehunt: The Secret Search for Traitors That Shattered the CIA	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Great Work From Author	This book is a detailed examination of the internal search for a spy that was supposedly in the CIA during the 60 - 70's that was headed up by the chief of counter intelligence James Angleton.  The book focuses on Angleton's almost demonic search for this supposed spy.  The spy was never found but the search did an incalculable amount of damage to the CIA and overall U.S. security due to the paranoid and distrustful management style that the CIA adopted.  The book is written in the style of an investigative reporter, by that I mean straight forward timeline with backed up facts and lots of detail.   It provides the read with an interesting view into the CIA and the problems the culture of mistrust caused.   It is a very readable book and is a must for those who are interested in the workings of the CIA during the cold war.	2002-04-16
1577694:US	41012519	R3BB032BC9PIXT	0520222342	273863592	Life at the Extremes: The Science of Survival	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Almost An Adventure Book	I must admit that I was fooled by the description of this book on the dusk jacket.  What I thought I was buying was a book that detailed what happened to individual people in extreme conditions, in space, tops of mountains etc.  What the book provided me was a description of what happens to the human body in these extreme conditions.  Overall the information was interesting, but this is not a book that would fall into the action / adventure category.  You do not get the drama or tension of actual people being put in harms way.  The book is well written, even in the parts that are medical descriptions.  If you are interested in what happens to someone in extreme conditions or as a reference book next time you are reading an action / adventure book then this is the book for you.	2002-04-16
1577755:US	41012519	R1DFUBAWS62I8M	0670882348	99381981	Crazy Horse: A Penguin Lives Biography	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting	I did not have high expectations about this book given the rather small size of it, but it was on sale so I gave it a try.  The first thing the reader comes away with is the impression that the author has a very high regard for Crazy Horse and American Indians as a whole.  Because of this esteem the reader is brought along the story believing that Crazy Horse was to the American Indian what Abe Lincoln, George Washington and FDR are to the average American.  The story is a little light on overall factual stories, but I think that comes more from the lack of written records by the American Indians and the type of life Crazy Horse lived.  From the traditional political leader as we know it today, there are reams of information on the everyday life and the job they held plus an ever increasing schedule and \\"to do\\" list that does not end.  In contrast, the American Indians lead a much simpler (not to say less civilized) existence that handled problems with far less bureaucracy.  Given that this was the case, this fact explains the volume of know facts about Crazy Horse.  Overall this is a very good book that lets you know as much about the man as it also provides the basis for a learned respect for him.  If you are interested in this topic I would suggest that this book is a very good first step.	2002-04-16
1577812:US	41012519	R170SPAYMNEITP	0688158250	654882354	She's Having a Baby - and I'm Having a Breakdown	Books	4	38	41	N	N	You Need This Book	This book was a gift and unfortunately it arrived too late.  Its not that my wife had already given birth, it is because my wife single handily tried to increase the revenue projections of Amazon by purchasing every known book about pregnancy that was written in English.  I even think she brought a few books written in Spanish thinking she could translate them, but that is another story.  So armed with a city library size collection of books she dug into them like a dieter at Dairy Queen, and I being the caring new age man I am, patently listened to each fact, story and antidote (regardless of the number of times they were told).  Thus when I was given this book during the fourth month I thought I had a pretty good understanding of what was going on.  My assumption proved correct.  <br />This is a well written and funny book that all men should get before the pregnancy starts, because each day into the pregnancy usually brings on something new that this book would have warned and prepared you for.  If I had read the book before my wife engaged in the home study Ph.D. program on pregnancy, then I would have been able to better engage in conversations with her on the topics at hand instead of just stilling there in a permanent state of confusion.  Buy the book then for no other reason that you can not seam so dumb when your wife starts to talk to you about what is happen on week 15 and 2 days.	2002-04-16
1577830:US	41012519	RWEIOVAL933M0	0425172686	552447276	Special Forces: A Guided Tour of U.S. Army Special Forces (Tom Clancy's Military Referenc)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	He Could Do Better	I want to say right at the front that I am a very big fan of Clancy, both his fiction and non-fiction work.  After the current war in Afghanistan started and there were descriptions that the start of the fighting was being carried out by Special Forces, I thought this book would be a great educational tool to help me better understand the new reports.   The book does give a broad understanding of the different US military Special Forces groups, a run down on training, tactics and weapons, but it did not offer much punch in the writing.  I also felt like many chapters were almost cut and paste jobs from the chapters before.   Overall I felt that the book could have been about 30 - 50 pages shorter and said the same thing, this disappoints me because those pages could have been filled with more real life examples as to the missions these guys actually perform.  <BR>Overall this is a good effort by the Clancy team; it is not as good as the Submarine or Carrier books in this line, but a solid effort.  I guess I am just expecting more from one of my favorite authors.	2002-04-16
1577940:US	41012519	R2F5IJ3DFE9YRW	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Wonderful Real Life Book	I have spent a lot of time over the past years reading about different aspects of World War Two, from the different battles to the equipment used, but this was the first time that I had a full book of individual stories about the average GI and the story he had to tell.  There are many reviews here that detail the book; I just wanted to add that at first I thought this would be a dull book.  Sure I had heard all the buzz about the book, but I thought that was more to do with the author then the actual book.  I even had doubts that a newsreader could become an author.  I am happy to report that I was wrong, first off Brokaw did not try to muddle around with the stories to get any glory for his writing style, he just told them like they were told to him.  I think this is the reason the book is so powerful, it is like you are sitting at your Grandparents home and they are telling you stories.  The stories are wonderful (as much as you can say that about war stories) and they really convey not just the battle, but all the emotion (good and bad) that the GI felt.  This is a great book and a must for any WW 2 collection.	2002-04-16
1577995:US	41012519	R2TV5B02D6AZWQ	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Interesting Details	If you are aware of the overall social trends that have taken place over the past 30 years in America I do not think a lot of the \\"discoveries\\" in this book will be much of a surprise.  The author clearly and completely describes the overall fast food industry from the potato farmer to the food additive chemist and everyone else in-between.  The book clearly documents that the lowest wage earns in American work in the fast food industry and that the agriculture industry has become big business, which dictates high productivity, low cost, and short creation cycles.  All of which this author tends to show in a left leaning negative light.  <br />The questions raised about the heath effects of the production line creation of animals as food, is somewhat disturbing and may prove to be the most far reaching issue in he book.  The focus on the low-income wage earner is done at a high level and an issue that probably will not excite many people.  After all the reason we can stop into our favorite burger place and get a meal for [$] is because the person behind the counter only makes minimum wage.  Anyway the book does provide many interesting facts about the full process and really does not do much preaching at all.   I found the book very entertaining and well worth the time.	2002-04-16
1578113:US	41012519	R8IEX9WJTRQ6Z	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Fun and Interesting	This book started a mini entertainment barrage that took up about 25% of the broadcasting time of the numerous educational channels.  Ever time I turned on the TV there was a show talking about US submarine warfare, this book must have described and area of interest for a lot of people.  The authors provide us a detailed history of American submarine use after World War 2 that is almost all dedicated to cold war tactics.  We also get some very good details of the accidents that have taken place with US boats and some USSR as well.  There are some passages that the authors did a good job of interjecting tension for example when describing he accidents that took so many lives.  The stories of how the US used submarines to perform intelligence gathering operations was almost like reading a James Bond story.  My only complaint (and a half-hearted one at that) is that the authors do not give us an overly detailed account of the actual submarine in and outs nor do they focus much on other nations outside of the US.  I do understand that this was not the focus of the book, but I would have liked a little more detail.  All in all this is a must have book for anyone interested in submarines, the cold war or espionage and the general reader can do a lot worse.	2002-04-16
1578226:US	41012519	R29C42X3YH8RPM	1873376413	74879378	The Devil's Adjutant: Jochen Peiper, Panzer Leader	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Battle of the Bulge Only	A person buys a book like this because they are really interested in learning everything hey can about a particular topic, that is why I bought this book.  The story is about a German tank leader and his actions during the Battle of the Bulge.  This book provides the reader with almost every detail of what this particular tank commander and his group went through during this particular battle of the war.   The book does also give the read some background on him to make you understand why he was held in such high regard and it provides the after the war bio also.  The book is well written, very detailed and does a good job of tying the pictures it displays to the story.   If you really have a deep fascination with either the Battle of the Bulge or German tank warfare then this would be a good book for you.	2002-04-16
1578232:US	41012519	R2BZB59WWMKOJI	1840440260	372837811	Air Disasters	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Standard Fair	I must be a rubber necker to the highest degree because I always enjoy these type of books. It has the standard fair, nothing really new on the format. The author does give us a good amount of detail, which he is known for. I would always like more photos, but there is enough to tell the story. If you like this type of book then you will enjoy this one.	2002-04-16
1578299:US	41012519	R1SONTG1OG129E	060980801X	407582216	The Last River: The Tragic Race for Shangri-la	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Average	The marketing of this book was the only reason I picked it up.   It claimed to be as good as Into Thin Air, all the book did for me was to make me appreciate Into Thin Air even more.  I have to admit that I have never even wanted to trek to the middle of the Asian continent to go white water kayaking down a very dangerous river with no civilization near you.  That is basically what these people did and of course, fell into a horrible life and death situation due to high water levels.  Given this lack of drive in my own life I was hoping to live vicariously through this adventure, unfortunately the book did not live up to the excitement or drama the actually participants of this adventure experienced.  The book provides all the details, many of which are very interesting, and runs down the action as it took place, but it just does not grab me the way other books in this category have.  Overall it is an interesting book, and if you are involved in this sport or are interested in this part of the world then you will come away with far more then the general interest reader.	2002-04-16
1578413:US	41012519	R1KUYQW551Z2C8	0805042644	558954064	Facing The Extreme: Moral Life in the Concentration Camps	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Powerful	In the field of holocaust writing this author is probably one of the better, maybe the best.  Therefore, I was interested in the book just because his name was attached to it.  The concept is very interesting and a new one, examining the way the victims of the holocaust and the USSR prison camps dealt with their time in the camps and how they survived from an emotional perspective.    It is a powerfully written book and the author pours a lot of himself into the pages.  This book focuses on the human condition, how they survived and how they cam out in he end.  It does not act as a history of the camps, numbers of imprisoned people or methods.  If you are interested in the human element in this horrible time in our history then I would suggest this book.	2002-04-16
1578445:US	41012519	R31ZHHWB0F54KB	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	5	106	114	N	N	Well Documented	The author of this book, Iris Chang does a wonderful effort in detailing the horrible events in an eastern Chinese city under Japanese occupation in the late 1930s.  The slaughter that she describes really is hard to read due to the incredible evil that she detailed.  I must admit that I had almost no remembrance of this event from a history class, but after reading the book I doubt I will ever forget it.   This is a well written and fully documented book that details the story from the perspectives of the victims, the Japanese soldiers who committed the crimes, and western ex-patriots.   One of the more important parts of the book for me was explaining how the government of Japan had spent years dehumanizing its soldiers and creating an environment where these kinds of atrocities could take place.  If you are interested in World War 2 this would be a very interesting and new topic to read about.	2002-04-15
1578454:US	41012519	R23CCZ6XDXXEDI	0736624317	81961623	Highly Confident:  The Crime And Punishment Of Michael Milken	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Solid Job by Author	This book details the business career of Milken, the rise to the top and then the fall to prison.  The book has a fair amount of rather interesting tabloid type information of his business operation, his life style and his take home pay - so much money it is almost sickening.  The author also takes us through how he got caught, what the charges were, the trail and the prison time.  We also get some information on Milken after jail.  Overall you can tell the bias of the author in that he obviously views Milken in high regard and has not one nice thing to say about the government attorneys.   The book is well written and interesting, if not bias.  There is some new information here and if you are interested in the period or the man then this is a book you should read.	2002-04-15
1578458:US	41012519	R3JK4F6BWU2712	1891620126	187014258	Man Without A Face	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Far From the Full Story	This book is basically the autobiography of Markus Wolf, who was the head of East Germany's foreign intelligence service (their version of the KGB).   The best parts of the book for me were the accounts of his organizations dealings with world wide terrorism and the trade craft his group used.  The details of the Stasi and his work history seemed to me to be only presenting the most positive sides.   He was the head of one of the nastiest groups out there during the cold war yet he tries to present the Stasi as closer to the CIA / FBI then the Nazi SS they were more like.  I was also disappointed that there was really nothing all that new here.  The book is well written and given this was his first book and there was a translation involved, I am sure the other writer did most of the heavy lifting.   All in all this is not a bad book, but it is definitely not the definitive account of the Stasi.	2002-04-15
1578470:US	41012519	R1DEKLIMNZO3SP	0679400664	583784382	Abu Nidal : A Gun for Hire : The Secret Life of the World's Most Notorious Arab Terrorist	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very Good if not a Bit Dated	The book is a very interesting account of this terrorist's career.     It covers many of the different organizations he is part of or works with and the countries that use him or support him.   The book also tried to give the reader a better understanding of the Israeli / Palestinians war and why it effects Nidal.   I found the most interesting part was just the detailed accounts of what he has been involved in; this is a very sick person that is out for as much death and destruction as possible.   The book is well written and detailed.   The author keeps the books going in a straight timeline.   I would say that it could use an update on what he has been up to the last ten years.   If you are interested in terrorism, and right now who is not, then you should pick up a copy of this book.	2002-04-15
1578522:US	41012519	R3CH1QOMCV7QSK	0375750231	880915462	Resurrection: The Struggle for a New Russia	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Well Worth It	This book bills itself as a history of the past 10 years after the fall of the Soviet Empire, and it does just that.  There is no denying that the author, David Remnick is the king of current Russian society structure.  The book not only focuses on who has power and what hey are doing with it, but it digs deeper down to the Joe everybody and what it is like to live in a country that continues to fall into lower and lower standards of living.  As far as who has the power now, that is a mix of old political cronies and new upstart organized crime figures with a few brave capitalists thrown into the mix.<br />This is a well thought out and constructed book and keeps you interested.  Just when you have had a good dose of heavy economic issues we go to the war in Chechnya, which keeps the pace up.  He has peppered the book with interesting interviews and massive dose of good old fashion reporting.  You can tell he worked very hard on this book, there is nothing left in the air.  Each conclusion or statement is backed up in the writing.  You also get the true love he has for the country and the people, the emotion comes through the writing and makes the book more then just a historical report.  The writing is very good and challenging, this is not a book you can read and watch TV at the same time, you really need to and want to sink your teeth into it.  If you are looking to learn something and enjoy it at the same time then this would be a very good buy.	2002-04-15
1578689:US	41012519	R3UP08NJUYGSDB	0380718316	533376360	Call to Duty	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not Very Well Written	I may be the one guy out there that does not like his books.   What makes me mad is that I have heard so much good press I was excited about this book.   The story sounded like it would be full of interesting stories and the duel plot was new, but it really did not rise to the occasion.   I found the writing wooden and he just does not hold my attention.  It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more; the disjointed writing or the two plots that seamed to just be thrown together.   I did not believe the characters; they just were not well developed. I only made it about half way into the book.    This book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters.   Because of the light development it does not hold your attention.	2002-04-15
1578887:US	41012519	R2MCI61GISA4Y0	0712645748	489677333	Charlie's Apprentice	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Slow and Old	Some of his other work is much better. This book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters. Because of the light development it does not hold your attention. I just did not believe the characters. I kept waiting for it to get better which is why I toughed it out to the end, but I was disappointed overall.	2002-04-15
1579010:US	41012519	R1YBE0S2Y2BSIA	0446364126	14750292	Double Cross: The Explosive, Inside Story of the Mobster Who Controlled America	Books	2	10	20	N	N	Nothing New Here	When I bought this book I though I was going to get some good, new information.  After all Giancana was one of the bosses, one of the top 5 names in the family business.  I have read a number of books about this area so I was coming into the book with some history on my side. After reading the book I am convinced that the Giancana household is running low on funds and this is an attempt to cash in on the name.  First off let's let this Mob hit on JFK fantasy die, if someone could come up with any proof maybe this part of the book would not be so laughable.  <br />The book does provide the life history, or the parts the author thought would sell, of Sam.   It covers some well know events of him coming up the hard way and the major events in his mafia clime to the top.  If you are well read on the subject then this is all known info.  If you are looking for a casual read about the Chicago mob and this is your first book on it then it provides a good start, and it is fun to read the book by one of the inside (close to it) guys.	2002-04-15
1579058:US	41012519	R2RPB8XL337VI6	1567993885	405087887	Military Blunders II: The Twentieth Century (Vol 2)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	A Blunder For Sure	I hate to say it, but this was not this author's best effort.   I found the reviews of the battles very high level and some of his conclusions go against what I have read in other books.  The title of the book accurately describes the contents of the book.   The writing was really not that inspired either, sure these types of books tend to be from the war college point of view, but his writing is not even that entreating.  I guess I should get the author some slack in that this book is probably more geared for a general overview, even though I still felt it was lacking in that regard.	2002-04-15
1579126:US	41012519	RJS3C1W1039QV	0385424736	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Standard Fair	Well its another McBook from the burn and turn factory know as Grisham Inc.  I am convinced he has a group of Santa's elf's slaving away in some South Carolina sweat shop turning these screen plays - sorry, I mean books out.   If you have read some of the authors books in the past you have a good idea of what you are going to get.   An easy to read and understandable book that is as light as cotton candy.  I actually think the movie was better.  Why do I read his books, for the same reason I eat junk food, it is easy to get, fast and not complicated.   Sometimes you just need a little light reading to take the stress from the day and his books fit that bill.	2002-04-15
1579191:US	41012519	R15EGD2RMYFZS9	0743216458	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hold on to Your Hat	The author, Stephen Ambrose has become the preeminent American World War 2 historian, because of books like this one.   He details the life of a Company of Airborne solders from boot camp, D-Day, the Battle of the Bulge and ending at the Eagle's Nest.  This is a very gripping book, not because of the detailed battle scenes, but because of the human element Ambrose brings to the book.   His focus is the people involved, the average GI that was in high school 6 months earlier and how is the greatest conflict of their generation.  Due to the rather high casualty count in the company you do get a view of a number of characters, not just a few.      I cannot recommend this book as much as D-Day, but it is a great book for World War 2 buffs and general history readers alike.   It is just a very good, fast and engrossing book that will take you not time at all to read, as you will find it difficult to put down.	2002-04-15
1579214:US	41012519	R33QVUM3WVN5P3	0471164089	480337444	Fallen Eagle: The Last Days of the Third Reich	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Buy This Book Now	This book is a great, detailed description of the last days of the Third Reich.  The coverage of the last days with Hitler is as good as \\"The Bunker\\".  What is not commonly known is that the last fighting in Germany was some of the hardest fought of the whole war, the German war machine was against the wall and the best was expected from its troops.  The details of the troops in the filed followed up with details form the men in charge were really well put together.   This moved very well into the Yalta conference and the impressions the leaders there had which differed somewhat from the men in the field.   This is just and all around great book, full of wonderful stories and an arm load of detail.   If you are interested in the part of the war then you should buy this book.	2002-04-15
1579250:US	41012519	R1JQQMIK752MTL	0060167599	997115379	Vendetta: American Express and the Smearing of Edmond Safra	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Boys Will Be Boys	What happens when business people start to act like 5 year olds at the playground - I'm taking my ball and going home.  This is a great story about the desire of American Express to move into the world of private banking and the bank they tried to by - Republic Bank run by Mr. Saffra.   Not only does the book provide us this weird story but also it gives the reader a great back ground on these two companies - the American Express information was very interesting.    The story of the two companies coming together and then having a lovers spat is just darn interesting and a little tabloid TV.   The book keeps your interest and is a nice little find if you pick it up.	2002-04-15
1579269:US	41012519	RLVJ2UC6Z2T2C	1560250453	559371991	Contract Killer: The Explosive Story of the Mafia's Most Notorious Hitman Donald "Tony the Greek" Frankos	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Not a Bad Story	This book is about the life of a confessed mob hit man. Some times books like this make me question if the author is not adding a little to make sure the buzz is there it sell the book. If this guy really did the damage he claims and for the reasons stated then why did not one of his \\"family\\" friends not put a hit out on him? And while we are talking, how many people have claimed to have been part of the Hoffa killing? So many they evidently needed to pick Hoffa up in a school bus to fit all the killers in. <br />Don't get me wrong; this is a very entertaining book, with just an armload of tabloid type details about the mafia and a lot of interesting stuff on the government and the witness protection program. The book is a very interesting jump into the world of the Mafia and you will remember of lot of the story for a good while after you have finished it.	2002-04-15
1579289:US	41012519	RX4D8XY3H98YF	0465045235	325297339	Merchants Of Debt: Kkr And The Mortgaging Of American Business	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Solid Job by Author	This book covers the largest and probably the best of the leveraged buyout firms that became so popular and profitable in the 80's.  What I would like to say is that this was an outstanding book that is the leader of the class on this topic.  You get a wonderfully documented and rich description of the group of high finance leaders during the 80's Junk Bond and M&amp;A scandals.  The author also provides a very readable explanation of the tools used in both the legitimate and illegal side of this issue.  This is just a detailed and exciting book; the extra pages and detail do not slow it down at all.  The personal descriptions of the people behind the \\"KKR\\" names is very interesting, it is something that many massive ego's could actually work together even if they are family.<br />If you are interested in this topic then I would suggest you also read &quot;Predator's Ball&quot; and \\"Den of Thieves\\".  If you read only one book on this topic then this is the book to read.	2002-04-15
1579302:US	41012519	RMY7Z4BPO464I	0887305563	101078308	Freefall: The Needless Destruction of Eastern Air Lines and the Valiant Struggle to Save It	Books	1	3	8	N	N	I Question if he Even Worked There	This book tries to be an \\"inside account\\" of the failure of Eastern Airlines.  I picked this book off the sale table and thought I would give it a try, mistake number one.   The second mistake was working through 200 pages of the thing until I called uncle and gave up, the third and final mistake is that I still have it in my house - I only hope it does not effect the other books sitting close to it.  This diatribe which seamed to me to be written in about 5 hours after an all night drinking binge, is undoubtedly some poor excuse to either claim ideas that were not his or maybe to push blame away from himself.  Save your self the time and aggravation and pass on this book.	2002-04-15
1579362:US	41012519	R21QWX4DRCADPU	0028623460	534143644	The Complete Idiot's Guide to British Royalty	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fun Book	I bought this book for my wife who for some reason is afflicted with an intense interest in all things royal.  I thought I would look though it becuase on this topic I could be called an idiot.  Well, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed the book.  It is well laid out, it holds your attention and does a very good job in describing many items that I would normally glaze over.  For the causal observer of the royals this is probably a very good guide.  With that said, I have read in some of these other reviews that there are a few errors in the family trees of the book.  That was not an important part of my enjoyment or use of the book, and speaking from experience (my wife's collection) if you are that into the royals there are many (many) books that detail family trees down to the family pets.  Overall this is an enjoyable book to get the basics and I now can at least understand some of what my wife talks about on this topic.	2002-04-15
1579371:US	41012519	R2UY2TKY9XJGVZ	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the Best in the Field	The author, Stephen E. Ambrose is considered one of if not the leading American historian concerning our involvement in World War 2.  He has recently received some bad press about &quot;borrowing&quot; information from other authors, but at this point I do not think that issue effects this book.  This book takes the reader from the end of the D-Day invasions all the way to the end of the German war front.  The thing that I loved the most about the book was the immense amount of detailed information he gave us.  Ambrose is such a skilled writer that he can dictate lists in a compelling manner.  The story has much more then endless list of facts, Ambrose does a wonderful job of describing what the American GI went through, from the food he ate to first hand accounts of some of the worse battles in the war.  I highly recommend this and his book D-Day to get an accurate, detailed and very easy to read documentation of the American war effort in Europe the last year.	2002-04-15
1579383:US	41012519	R3QS7SFNWVX2I5	0743234758	454578864	The Commanders	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Best on the Topic	I am a big fair of Woodward, so much so that I would even consider reading his shopping list.  Overall this book gives the reader some very interesting stories about the military preparation and political decision making that led up to the Attack on Panama and the Gulf War.  The book also gives you the details of the inner workings of the Pentagon and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.   I do not think there is a current writer / investigative reporter that has the ability to get the inside information Woodward always does, at time I wonder if he does not pay people to take tape recorders with them to meetings.  He provides so much detail and very useful explanations of the process that you really feel that you are there.  He always puts together a great book and he has done it here again.  I also have the book by the 1st Bush \\"A World Transformed\\", and in the book he states that for the most part everything in this Woodward book is correct, I do not think you can get a better recommendation then that.  You will defiantly enjoy this book.	2002-04-15
1579429:US	41012519	R351CWR7ZJ4DWZ	155611396X	47628121	Dead Ringer: An Insider's Account of the Mob's Colombian Connection	Books	1	2	5	N	N	About 350 Pages Too Long	Dull, bland and too long - that's how I would describe this book.  I have a hard time imaging that even the people that worked on this case were interested in this book.   It billed itself as the behind the scenes view of one of the most high profile and important drug busts involving the Mafia and Columbia drug loads....  How could so much bad writing fall into one book?   My only assumption is that the publisher must be related to the author and this is a favor or wedding present.     Stay away from this book like you would a messy divorce.	2002-04-15
1579443:US	41012519	RZ2TECSGTRWUN	0752528335	750252752	Waffen-SS: Hitler's Black Guard At War	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very Good Review	This book is a historical overview of the positive aspects of the Waffen-SS.  The book is a coffee table size book that is full of both black and white and color illustrations, pictures and diagrams that cover all the major battles, campaigns, and surprisingly alleged war crimes.  The book takes what some would call honist and others a bias view of their activities and accheivments.   If you are interested in the Waffen SS or World War 2 this is an interesting look at the best of the German military forces.  The book may even work to dispel some of the assumptions people make when talking about the Waffen SS as they were all camp gaurds - none were.	2002-04-15
1579528:US	41012519	R14BC03YZ94FJ4	0399140425	718230201	Angel of Death (Sean Dillon)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Bland	I did not believe the story of the characters at all, neither was well developed.   The author also tried to go down the path of the \\"dark, brooding\\" lead that will alone save the world and he did not pull it off.   I also did not like some of the writing; I found it a bit forced or dry.  Not much between the covers.  Sure the story sounds interesting, but somehow that does not translate to what is actually written.  Overall, this is not that great of a book.   There are many others out there that are better.	2002-04-15
1579547:US	41012519	R2P3L2HX9F1E4R	0385471785	409489473	The Execution Protocol: Inside America's Capital Punishment Industry	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great Details	This book is not for the weak of heart.  The author puts his biases aside and just clearly explains what goes on in this part of the American criminal justice system.  He takes you through the equipment used and the manufactures of the equipment.  He looks over the legal framework for the convicted man / woman.  The process of actually testing and performing the sentence.  He also spends some time talking to people that are for and against the method of punishment.  All in all this is a very interesting and well-done book that tells the reader everything they would want to know about this process.  If you are interested in law enforcement, the BoP or criminal law then I would suggest finding a copy of this book.	2002-04-15
1579552:US	41012519	RPQSPEKOGG1ZT	0783500017	93247864	Serial Killers	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Solid Job by Author's	I think you always know what you are going to get with a Time Life Book, a well put together, full off details, and highly illustrated book and this is no exception.   The book acts as an overview of the major known serial killers in the past 250 years in he United States.   He details out each person, the crimes they committed, how they were found out and captured and what happened to them.   Overall an interesting book and a good broad outline on the topic.  If this is what you are looking for then his is a good pick up.	2002-04-15
1579759:US	41012519	R7OQL54UWGH63	0812920872	353863945	October Surprise	Books	5	22	28	N	N	Well Written and Interesting	This book is a description of the ascertain that the Reagan-Bush campaign made a secret deal with Iran to delay the release of the American hostages until after the 1980 election in return for arms. This claim gained real credence when the hostages were actually released about 2 hours after the swearing in of Regan but gained further credibility with the on again off again weapon sales made to Iran in the preceding years. Someone that was involved in both the Carter and Regan administrations so you I tended to give him some credibility right from the start writes the book. <br />I found the book very well documented, well laid out and readable. One chapter lists the fates of those involved in the deal. Overall it will hold your attention no matter what side of the political side you are on. For an interesting different view of this situation I would suggest reading the book \\"Crisis\\" by Hamilton Jordan. It covers the topic of the hostages from a different perspective.	2002-04-14
1579798:US	41012519	R1JV2KA6Z9OWQS	0061090565	354707339	Under Fire: An American Story	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Well Written and Interesting	This book is a little more then most people thought it would be i.e. it does cover his life before his Iran - Conta moment in the sun.  The Viet Nam information was interesting and something I had not heard much of before.   I was less interested in the details about his childhood and his marriage.  Basically we all bought he book to review the Iran - Conta affair and the trail and the book does not disappoint in this area.   His coverage of the dealing with the Iranians was very well constructed.  <br />The good flow of the book and the fact that it keeps you interested is probably in part due to the skill of co-author William Novak.  The details about his life during the testimony before the House and Senate Select Committees, the media harassment and the trail are very informative and insightful. <BR>As with almost any government scandal there are any number of versions of the story, usually about 25% more stories then actual people involved, and this book is the Oliver North version.   He told his story in a very believable, humble and somewhat apologetic fashion.   I think if you are interested in the story this is one of the books you should read to gain an understanding, but not the definitive version of the truth - if that will ever really come out.  Overall it is a well-written and interesting book.	2002-04-14
1579848:US	41012519	R3GKXN4RU48LR0	0380718227	594124498	American Steel	Books	2	7	21	N	N	Did Not Hold My Attention	I like this author, the Hot Zone was a marvelous book and the fiction version was not that bad.  These were the only two reasons I picked up this book.   The description of the book sounded somewhat interesting, but without the author I would have passed on it.   In hindsight that was a mistake.  The author really did try his best to make a business case study more aptly used in a college class then a mass publication book, interesting to read.  He could not pull it off.   The good flow of the book and the fact that it at least tries to keep you interested is due to the skill of author.   Yes there is a lot of detail about this new form of making sheets of steel, but unless you are in the industry or a gluten for punishment I would stay away from the book.	2002-04-14
1579865:US	41012519	R1SZCHUBISTYVT	0060920386	68579470	Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of the Best of the Subject	This book is a description of the largest leveraged-buy out of the 80's.   The book covers the management buy out of RJR and all the financial moves that took place to get it done.   It covers the winners and losers and the tactics they used.    The authors are investigative reports so they have the ability to provide the reader with a very well constructed and easy to understand story.  They really bring the reader into the negotiations and all the high pressure and tension is coved to the reader.  The most fun was when the authors took to describing all the financial players involved, their egos and ways of life and doing business.   The excesses of some of the companies detailed are really something.    <BR>If you are interested in this topic then I would suggest you also read \\"Den of Thieves\\" and \\"Predator's Ball\\", both of which cover the 80's M&A and Junk Bond world.   To get a better understanding of KKR, I would suggest \\"Masters of Debit\\" and if you are looking for more info on this particular deal I would suggest \\"True Greed\\".	2002-04-14
1580063:US	41012519	R1KADUPQVI8ABD	0395593050	13387124	DEATH LOBBY CL	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Interesting Details	This book is everything you would want to know about how a country arms itself during a large scale land war and how the developed countries in the world bend over backwards to go around laws and social standards to make the fast buck.  We have an almost overwhelming account of the arms companies that sold all type of weapons to Iraq, many of which were embargoed technology.  I guess there is not a large-scale surprise of these issues, it does seam that the majority of the world that is using weapons day in and day out against their enemies rarely are the actual countries that create the devises.  In one sense this could be a business case book on how to make money off of arms sales. <BR>  <BR>The book is well written and engaging.   It does a good job at laying out lots of detail but not making it dull.   Overall an interesting book and should be read, now more then ever given that Iraq is probably doing some of these things right now.	2002-04-14
1580170:US	41012519	R2BHCHY3GOY8C1	0446516937	543495367	Burning the Apostle	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Light, Easy to Read Book	This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book that at its heart is a conspiracy theory.   Ok the story is almost not believable, but if you close one eye and get into it you will have fun.   Not a bad little page-turner.  I liked the story line; the whole aggressive and violent environmentalist group was believable given what is going on in the field today.  The book presented this group very well.   It did not present them as some whacked out bunch of crazies but as a very determined and dedicated bunch.   The book sneaks up on you and really sucks you in.   You find your self almost hurrying to the next page because the suspense builds through to the end of the book.   Very good characters with competent development and well thought out roles within the story.   I would have liked a bit more detail on the locations.  The ending was also a good one - you are expecting something close, but the author has come up with something better.  Overall, this was a great effort by the author.	2002-04-14
1580181:US	41012519	R2JH6EW7BRORA8	076151287X	117893911	A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy	Books	4	42	50	N	N	A Good Amount of Detail	The title of the book says it all, A Question of Character. This is one author's attempt at looking at the political life of President John F. Kennedy's, before and during his time in the White House. It details the differences in what the spin is and the private life that is described as being close to Hugh Hefner's. We also get a very detailed and for me, somewhat troubling, view of the constant controls his father, Joe Kennedy's had of JFK throughout his career. Not that comforting given the somewhat dubious reputation of Joe. <br />The author came close to a Kitty Kelly sex scandal tell all, but did not completely let himself drop that low. I thought the author was almost sad to be telling me, the reader, some of the less then faltering truths here. Almost if he was a firm believer in Camelot and this book and research pained him. Overall this is a well-written book that has some interesting conclusions. The author could have spent more time on the domestic policies and international issues that faced JFK to make the account better rounded. I do not think it is the one-volume definitive story of JFK, but it is a very good start.	2002-04-14
1580289:US	41012519	R23NW8AIHE7ZHU	0971759502	327170423	By Way of Deception: The Making of a Mossad officer	Books	5	38	46	N	N	Inside Look	This is a book about how one man became a Mossad agent in the Israeli foreign intelligence agency.  He details his joining and ascent in the ranks.  The main focus of the book is the description of the training he and others under went, and then descriptions of some operations he was involved in.  I had always heard that the Mossad was one of the better intelligence organizations out there - in the class of the CIA, KGB, MI5, but the detail described about training and information gathering makes one really appreciated how good they are.   All this with a substantially smaller force then the other groups have, it makes for an organizations that man for man is probably the best.    <br />The book really brings out the determination of the recruits and the dedication the members of the Mossad have.   The author does a good job with this book.   He is economical with his words and you do not ever get bogged down in dry information.  The fact that he brings emotions to the reasons he joined and what he went through give the book more punch then just a telling by an investigative reporter.   If you are interested in the world or espionage then this is a great book to read.	2002-04-14
1580376:US	41012519	R2SQDOSM49PITC	0679401466	450237557	Inside the KGB	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Below Average	This book details the life of a KGB agent, his career in the organization and an overview of what they do and how they do it.   It comes off as a very high level, average and uninspiring work.   There is just nothing new here.  The book was a little run of the mill.  The story sounded like it would be full of interesting stories from this former KGB agent.  We get some interesting details on how operations are planned and carried out, some detail on the trade craft and recruitment, but overall the wooden written and the lack of large amounts of new information make this a book only suited to someone that is really interested in learning everything they possibly can about the KGB.   There are better books on this topic.	2002-04-14
1580399:US	41012519	R164NZ4E8NOUX7	0446393444	4007243	April Fools: An Insider's Account of the Rise and Collapse of Drexel Burnham	Books	2	0	0	N	N	There Are Better	This book was a little run of the mill.  The story sounded like it would be full of interesting stories, but it really did not rise to the occasion.   This book is a review if the problems DBL had after their Junk Bond department ran into trouble with the SEC.  The book covers the collapse as an overall review with not much new info that has not been shared in other books.   The best part of the book was when the authors took to describing all the financial players involved, their egos, and ways of life and doing business.   The excesses of some of the companies detailed are really something.   If you are interested in this topic then I would suggest you also read \\"Den of Thieves\\" and \\"Predator's Ball\\", both of which cover the 80's M&A and Junk Bond world.   To get a better understanding of KKR, I would suggest \\"Masters of Debit\\".  They are much better books then this one.	2002-04-14
1580442:US	41012519	R3ASQCVBSN5JKQ	0671738909	985589072	Spy in the Russian Club: Spy in the Russian Club	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Average Effort	Kessler always does a good job with this type of book and this is no exception.  It is the story of a middle level, outgoing and kind of lovable looser turned into a KGB spy for a short period of time.   This book provides more then enough of the details of his life and not enough of what he actually got away with.  In all fairness to the author, his efforts at spying have been lately deemed not that large of a blow to the US- nothing in the order of Ames or Walker.  The details of his escape to the USSR prove to be interesting.      <BR>My complaints of the book are that the author seams to be trying hard for the espionage version of a Kitty Kelly book; he really plays up the small and irrelevant weird personal life of the main character.   I think it is just to get buss going. This book took an interesting issue and really tried to play it as a very sexy story when if he would have stuck to just the facts the book would have come out better.   Overall this is an average effort from someone that can do better.	2002-04-14
1580488:US	41012519	R3D9AGS18L7I8J	039913655X	581154820	Inside Out: An Insider's Account of Wall Street	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Better Books Out There	What happens when someone with the ego the size of New York gets a book contract?   Read this book and find out.  This guy is amassing, the book details out his make and break it life in Wall Street and is more of an additional way for him to continue pumping up his ego.   There are promises of his wheeling and dealing details and how he was one of the majors in the Junk Bond and M &amp; A scene of he 80's, but once you read the book it seams more like he was always looking in the window at the real players.  Sure he was a crook, but not the top level, more of an upper middle management kind of guy.  Overall the book does not really give you much new info, it really is just a description of this arrogant fat cat that wanted the world to treat him like a king.  I would suggest you not be an enabler to his egomania and move past this book.    If you are interested in this topic then I would suggest you also read &quot;Den of Thieves&quot; and &quot;Predator's Ball&quot;, both of which cover the 80's M&amp;A and Junk Bond world.   To get a better understanding of KKR, I would suggest \\"Masters of Debit\\".  They are much better books then this one.	2002-04-14
1580491:US	41012519	R3PWVDHKK0F8NE	0393321282	776870326	J. Edgar Hoover: The Man and the Secrets	Books	5	17	22	N	N	But What About The Dress?	This book is exactly what the title suggests, a biography of J. Edgar Hover.  The author tells a story that lends credit to all the rumors and assumptions that good old J. Edgar Hoover was the most powerful man in American politics for at least 35- 40 years.  This book details his career from the start of the FBI to his death.  The book did have details on how the FBI was created, some of its major issues over the years and crimes, and the \\"black bag jobs\\", but what I really liked was the details of how J. Edgar dealt with Presidents.  Given the ego of the men that were president during this time in history, it really must have been hell for them to have Hover with so much power over them.  There probably has not been in American history any one man that can say so many Presidents, an interesting accomplishment, personally hated him.<br />The book is a lot of fun to read because page after page details a lot of the abuses of power and stories of political intrigue that usually only are detailed in fiction.  The time frame of the book is also so interesting to most of us, because this in not agent history, but times that many of our parents lived through, WW 2, the Cold War, JFK, Watergate - the book is almost a run down of the major events of the last century for the American nation, and he had his paws in every little bit.  There is even details of very basic corruption on the art of Hover and a little on the edge of the rumored homosexuality.   Overall a tour de force of the life of J. Edgar, if you are interested in the man, the FBI or American politics this is a book you not only need to read, but will be very glad you did.	2002-04-14
1580500:US	41012519	R1E9Y6IPQ5D3AG	067179227X	926409967	Den of Thieves	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Best on the Topic	I don't think I can add much to the descriptions of the book that have already been documented here. What I would like to say is that this was an outstanding book that is the leader of the class on this topic. You get a wonderfully documented and rich description of the group of high finance leaders during the 80's Junk Bond and M&A scandals. The author also provides a very readable explanation of the tools used in both the legitimate and illegal side of this issue. This is just a detailed and exciting book; the extra pages and detail do not slow it down at all.<br />If you are interested in this topic then I would suggest you also read \\"Predator's Ball\\". To get a better understanding of KKR, I would suggest \\"Masters of Debit\\". If you read only one book on this topic then this is the book to read.	2002-04-14
1580528:US	41012519	R13BMHUE6RB3L4	067084098X	563575	3: Merchant Princes (Company of Adventurers)	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Not Very Exciting	This book is a review of a very successful real estate company in Canada.   My more then exciting introduction is about how I felt about the book.  There were facts, lots of them but overall no real excitement or much to get the normal reader interested in the book.   I got through about 175 pages before I gave up.   The author tried to punch up the book, but the subject matter did not lend its self to it, there is just noting scandalous or exciting about a well-run company.   This is more of a 400-page case study best left to a university class on management.  Unless you work here or are related to some on that does I doubt you would find much value in this book.	2002-04-14
1580553:US	41012519	R3HGLU4N0Z55WE	0788161989	88788229	Rainmaker: The Sage of Jeff Beck, Wall Streets Mad Dog	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Much Better Books on the Topic Out There	What happens when someone with the ego the size of New York gets a book contract?   Read this book and find out.  This guy is amassing, the book details out his make and break it life in Wall Street and is more of an additional way for him to continue pumping up his ego.   There are promises of his wheeling and dealing details and how he was one of the majors in the Junk Bond and M &amp; A scene of he 80's, but once you read the book it seams more like he was always looking in the window at the real players.  Overall the book does not really give you much new info, it really is just a description of this arrogant fat at that wanted the world to treat him like a king.  I would suggest you not be an enabler to his egomania and move past this book.    If you are interested in this topic then I would suggest you also read &quot;Den of Thieves&quot; and &quot;Predator's Ball&quot;, both of which cover the 80's M&amp;A and Junk Bond world.   To get a better understanding of KKR, I would suggest \\"Masters of Debit\\".  They are much better books then this one.	2002-04-14
1580686:US	41012519	R2QRXXGRNF5PW	0688075290	413498536	The Wolf of the Kremlin: The First Biography of L.M. Kaganovich, the Soviet Union's Architect of Fear	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Only For the Committed	I did not know what to expect with this book.  It was dealing with a good amount of history 20 -40 years old, what more and new could be said.  I also have found that with many books that probably needed some help in the translation you get a more dry writing style.  I was please when both of my assumptions turned out not to be correct.  The writer provides some interesting information and his writing style is not wooden.  As in any biography you have the expected chapter on the childhood years of the character so nothing new here and for me it could have been left out.  There were some interesting facts about growing up in the USSR, but nothing worth 20 some odd pages.  The real value to me came from the descriptions of some of the work the author's father performed as the second in command of what came to be known as the KGB.<br />If you have covered some of the history of he KGB, there are some interesting points in this book that could fill in or contradicted information from other books.  You have a life of what most would call dirty double-crossing others in the top of the government, KGB and military.  On of the interesting view points was from one of the guys doing the work on the military purges that took place with Stalin.  It was rather amazing that the authors father did not also fall to the ax, but that must be a testament to the secure position he had behind Berga (SP?).  This is an interesting book, but probably only for people that have a strong interest, this in not as exciting as the dusk jacket tries to make it out and if you do not have at least a general knowledge of the organization and history involved then you will miss a lot of the value of the book.	2002-04-13
1580688:US	41012519	R3M84U7AHH6RP1	B00005X0JJ	968224716	Triumph over terror on Flight 847	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Solid Job by Author	Many times I read a non-fiction book and view it as a piece of history, something I want to learn about.  This story was a book I came away with the thoughts thank goodness I was not involved.  It is very difficult for a non-fiction author to convey a lot of emotion or tension in a story, the word choice and story construction tend to take away from the credibility of a good non-fiction book.   This author has mastered this problem.  He conveys all the true terror the flight crew felt as the plane was taken over, the increasing frustration with the situation as the plane bounces from one airport to another, and then finial the desperation and increasing depression as the plane sits for days with endless non-moving negotiations and TV propaganda stunts.  Many people will remember this incident, so by reading the book it is an interesting trip back to the 80s.   The only thing I would have liked different would have been a bit more on the terrorists themselves, their motives and more background.  This is a solid, exciting book that is worth reading if you are interested in the period or terrorism.	2002-04-13
1580693:US	41012519	R31LKCUTUFQZ1Q	1568521332	225027910	The Good Old Days: The Holocaust as Seen by Its Perpetrators and Bystanders	Books	5	174	185	N	N	Very Powerful	This book really makes one shiver. I have read a number of books on the holocaust and World War 2 and this book absolute is the rawest of the books covering the genocide. That is not to say the book had a blow by blow account of the methods of killing, but just the history of this group of solders and the off handed way the mass killing was described. The people doing this killing were just normal guys, not unlike friends, family or myself. Wow, it is just amazing to me the way they try to justify what they were in charge of, the crimes against humanity that they committed. That is what was so disturbing to me. It is much easier to think that the mass killing was done by some group of homicidal maniacs let out of the asylum and given guns that that is not the case. <br />The details you get here are very hard to take once you have finished the book and think about it.  This is one of the few books that for weeks after I finished it I would continue to think about it I do not think I can recommend this book enough; it really gives you a feel for the tremendous crime that took place. You will not be able to stop reading the book until you have completed it.  I could go on and on.  Even if you are not overly interested in WW 2 or the Holocaust you should read this book, there is no way you will not be griped by it.	2002-04-13
1580752:US	41012519	R2GMG56HPEQBG2	0671693387	226575467	Moscow Station:  How the KGB Penetrated the American Embassy	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Average Effort	Kessler always does a good job with this type of book and this is no exception.  The behind the scenes info about how the Moscow CIA Station, sorry Embassy, worked was very informative and fun in a James Bond sort of way.    I think by now we all know the story of how the entire U.S. Embassy, including the CIA offices, were full of KGB listening devices. We also have a good idea of how the Marine sex for secrets ploy went.  This book just provides more of the details.  <BR>My complaints of the book are that the author seams to be trying hard for the espionage version of a Kitty Kelly book, he really plays up the small and irrelevant sex for secrets story.   I think it is just to get buss going. This book took an interesting issue and really tried to play it as a very sexy story when if he would have stuck to just the facts the book would have come out better.   Overall this is an average effort from someone that can do better.	2002-04-13
1580778:US	41012519	R2UAJXN087EI94	0394575075	462983496	Black Watch: The Men Who Fly America's Secret Spy Planes	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Enjoyable & Interesting Book	If you are into US Air Force equipment and history then this will be a very interesting and fun book for you.   The book covers both the aircraft that have been used over the past 35 years to gather intelligence and the missions the crews undertake.   The book focuses on the jet age and really spends its time the aircraft that were in use when the book was published, the U2 and the SR 71.  The author does a great job of describing the aircraft and the corresponding pictures within the book are a great help.   I was also very impressed with the detail he goes into with the types of missions the US is performing now. <BR>The author does a good job with his writing, at times when describing aircraft performance etc it is difficult to make it fun to read, but this author did it.  With JSTARS and the unmanned craft now in use this book is a bit dated, but it offers a great review of the U2 and SR 71 plus an interesting view at what was to come out in the 90's - equipment we are seeing being used today.  This is an interesting book and one for the collection.	2002-04-13
1580785:US	41012519	R3Q8KFO4C2YD66	0246133813	472703966	Waldheim: The Missing Years	Books	2	5	6	N	N	I Was Not Sold	I think all of you have heard the stories that Kurt Waldheim was a ...Nazi that went on to be the head of the UN, well this book tries it's best to prove this theory. The book covers Waldheim's full life, and at first the reader would almost think it was an authorized biography. It covers the first 20 years of his life in a nice and short method that seams that it could have been anyone growing up in Europe at the time. When we hit World War Two that is when the family has problems and this book turns into a very unauthorized biography. After reading the book I went to the library and pulled up a few of the old news paper articles on the topic when it was big news, and it looks like this author captured the mood of the media at the time. Convict the man for ratings and let him prove he did not do it, a very difficult issue with something so old.<br />Overall the book does document Waldheim's service in the Waffen SS, but does not defiantly put Kurt in the location of any known atrocities of war (then again sometime it is all a matter of judgment of what is and is not fair play in combat). I think the author's main push is simple to make you believe that just because he was in the Waffen SS, that he must have preformed war crimes. This may be somewhat of a convincing argument if you do not know much about the make up of the Waffen SS, but if you do then it does not hold water. The Waffen SS was just a unit of fast reaction forces, not the head holocaust perpetrators. Overall the book was mildly interesting, but only if you are really into the topic would I suggest you read it.	2002-04-13
1580809:US	41012519	RT71ZD2858W5B	0151639663	684000325	For the Record: From Wall Street to Washington	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Very Interesting and Entertaining Book	I thought this was a well written, interesting and entertaining book describing his time in the Reagan White House.  The author was the topic so I always do discount a little of what I read, but from some of the other books, I have read, from the Reagan staff, it looks like he did not pull too many Al Haig's and get an over blown ego.  The detail on his job in the treasury department was very interesting, the explanations of the Reagan economic policies and their effects of the debit levels and currency value was also well done.  Very few authors could document this topic and make it interesting.    I think the most press on this book was due to his explanation of his relationship with Nancy and her controlling of the president by some tarot card reader in San Francisco.  He handled it well and it is a juicy bit in the book.  If you are interested in the Reagan administration then this is a good book that keeps you interested. If you are looking for a Reagan love fest then I would pick up Meeses's book, it is like a teenager writing a love letter to a boy band.	2002-04-13
1580817:US	41012519	R30QDY199QB36E	0061092045	696576216	Honor Among Thieves	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I may be the one guy out there that does not like his books.   What makes me mad is that I have heard so much good press I was excited about this book.  There are a number of reviews here that sum up the story so I will not go down that road again.    I find the writing wooden and he just does not hold my attention.  It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more, the disjointed writing or the plot that seamed to just be thrown together.   I did not believe the characters; they just were not well developed. I only made it about half way into the book.   Maybe I just have a mental block with him.	2002-04-13
1580829:US	41012519	R2MPHOCGP00NO9	0300038283	348534715	Impressionist & Post-Impressionist From the The Courtauld Collection	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Solid Job by Author's	This museum is one of the jewels of Chicago and this book does a very good job of documenting this part of the museum's collection.  There are other museums with larger collections of this type, but I think the authors did a great job of displaying this collection in the best \\"light\\" that they could.   I learned a lot from this book as well as having a good-looking coffee table edition.  I enjoyed finding out more about the particular artist and scene.   Overall this book is probably geared for the average person that just wants to know the basis of the topic.	2002-04-13
1580835:US	41012519	RELMEODJSE6HW	0471515353	530202821	The Big Fix: Inside the S&L Scandal - How an Unholy Alliance of Politics and Money Destroyed America's Banking System	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Not What You Think	This in an interesting book and not one that only focuses on the nightly news sound bite about the S&L in Texas with three speed boats.  This author examines why the S&L situation happened.  The answers he uncovers do not paint the picture that the politicians want us all to think too much about.  Basically the Federal government changes the rules in relation to capital requirements for S&L based on pressure from contributors and a Reagan policy of deregulate everything.   Once that happened the mess started.   The biggest mistake the government made was deregulating a business that they were on the hook for if they went under.   The vast majority of S&L's were actually doing fine until even more regulation came out regarding capital requirements - all in all the politicians had as much to do with the issue as the bankers.   The book is much better at explaining this then me, if you are interested in the topic or would like to broaden your understanding of the issues I would start here.	2002-04-13
1580848:US	41012519	R1SW6NKO4M3AVV	0380707721	402776494	The Spy Who Got Away	Books	3	5	6	N	N	How is Russia Now?	The story is about a spy that literally got away from the FBI - right under their noses.  He is now (at least one thinks) living in Russia, which I am sure, does not treat him the same way it used to.   Overall I felt the story was interesting, but did not come away thinking this guy did that much damage to the US.   He just did not hold a very high position and he left after a short period of time.    He was no Walker or Ames.   Given this was the case my complaint with the author is that he tried to make the spying this lame did as something more exciting then it was, I am assuming to get more buss about the book.   Overall the book is a fine effort, Wise has a lot of knowledge about the working of the intelligence agencies in the US and Russia and he likes to display that knowledge in the book.  If you are a nut about true-life spy's then this is not a bad little book.	2002-04-13
1580856:US	41012519	R3DP7YMNQTFGOJ	0316210560	768450007	Hunting Marco Polo: The Pursuit of the Drug Smuggler Who Couldn't Be Caught by the Agent Who Wouldn't Quit	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Better Books Out There	This book takes what many would consider a mid level drug dealer and the search for him across the world - hence the \\"Marco Polo\\" tag.  Well the villain here is not that bad so it is hard to get excited about the chase.   He is no choirboy to be sure, but he is not a Pablo Escobar either.  The detail of the police tactics used is interesting.   The disappointing thing to me was the detail of how disjointed law enforcement is in the western world, nobody wants to work with any other countries?   The book is ok and you can probably guess what happens in the end.   If you are interested in this type of story, Killing Pablo by Mark Bowden is far better and more up to date.	2002-04-13
1580861:US	41012519	R272NB1AOHBGUE	0140152849	333908354	Skyscraper: The Making of a Building	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Up, Up and Away	I thought this was an all around cool book.  This book deals with the whole process of how a building is built, from the sight location, finances, government agencies and construction.   You get just the right amount of detail, not so much that you are forcing your way through the book, but enough to really understand it.   I like the flow of the book, the author keeps the pace going and you can feel the tension main of the actors are experiencing.  The author has done a good job with this book, detailed and interesting.  If you ever wanted to know how they build those big building then this is an introductory course.	2002-04-13
1580966:US	41012519	R23ER0N9VAIPQH	0452265304	233226017	True Greed (Plume)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	More Detail Please	Basically this book is the Cliff notes of the book Barbarians at the Gate.   The book covers the management buy out of RJR and all the financial moves that took place to get it done.   It covers the winners and losers and the tactics they used.   It also does an adequate job of describing all of the plays involved.  It is a good enough little book, some good details and the witting is not bad.  If you really want all the details read the book Barbarians at the gate, it is a much more detailed and exciting book; the extra pages and detail do not slow it down at all.	2002-04-13
1580990:US	41012519	R1MJ9K2RF8IY6Y	0060158158	7671422	Marcos Dynasty	Books	4	14	17	N	N	What About the Shoes?	I almost would say that this book is as much about the Philippines as it is about the fun loving dictators the Marcos's. The book covers about 50 years and covers more then just the rise to power of these two, but also detail in what was happening in the country as a whole. I came away thinking the book could have been called the Marcos Crime Family, I guess if you are in power for so long it is easy to keep slipping more and more down that path. I was also interested in how much the USA was involved in keeping them in power, sure it probably seemed like the best thing to do, but the country suffered under his uninspired rule for so long how many years will it take for them to get up to the level of many of the other countries in Asia? <br />You can tell that the author is an investigative journalist because of the straightforward, detailed account he gives. This book comes at you almost like the author had an ax to grind. I would have liked a bit more on the end - what happened after they left? Overall the book was enjoyable and worth the effort.	2002-04-13
1580991:US	41012519	R23ZDIQCYABT5S	0679416994	40580151	Trust Me: Charles Keating and the Missing Billions	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Mastermind or Moron?	This book covers the story of Charles Keating and his effort to run an S&L like a Kingdom to benefit his family and political views.   This book offers the reader a very well documented, thought out telling of the Keating story.   You can actually see when he starts to take for granted the public-trust he has and start to us it for his own purposes.  Although to be fair to him, it was not all because he was conniving, he was also a truly bad businessman that seamed to make gold into lead.  He was defiantly the poster boy for the whole S&L scandal.  I would have liked to have more detail on his overall political dealings.   Overall this is an interesting and well-written book.	2002-04-13
1581059:US	41012519	R1JBH7ACFY1Y2E	0140173188	536490729	The Money Culture	Books	1	14	35	N	N	A Mess	What a disjointed mess, talk about cashing in on fame.  All he did here was take a bunch of columns he wrote in the paper and called it a book.   I could have done better with the letter to the editor section of the paper.  I was not that enamored with Liar's Poker and this book has done it for me with this author.   It was just that the articles were not that relevant any more and his writing is not that good.	2002-04-13
1581064:US	41012519	R2K7XB456W71DK	1857974166	273348485	The Disciples	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting Twist	Great book, it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this on his first try.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book that at its heart is a conspiracy theory.   Ok the story is almost not believable, but if you close one eye and get into it you will have fun.   The taking of the whole East vs. West story line and throwing in cult like clan was very interesting.  Each time I was ready for a plot twist, action or drama it was there.   The characters just explode in your memory - you do not get them out of your head.  The ending was also a good one - you are expecting something close but the author has come up with something better.  I was a little disappointed in the love story, it seemed forced, almost like the publisher said the book would sell better with the love story.   Overall, this was a great effort.	2002-04-13
1581068:US	41012519	R1DME8UGTI7XAT	0385248245	781961022	Unfriendly Skies: Revelations of a Deregulated Airline Pilot	Books	3	0	5	N	N	Why Does My Seat Cost This Much?	This book is like a personal add in the paper, it promises far more then it delivers.  I was looking for a bit more on the real scary and scandalous side, 50% of pilots drunk etc. a kind of Kitty Kelly on the airline industry.   It did not give me this type of scandal sheet reading, but it did offer an excellent detailed account of how the airline industry operates.  This detail was very interesting and if you fly, will make you understand some of the things we have to do just to get to that meeting.  The writing was ok, more like a casual conversation which given the subject matter made for an enjoyable book.   If you are interested in this industry then I would suggest this book.	2002-04-13
1581069:US	41012519	R144SN7M02N83	0425133389	111539404	In Gunsight of the KGB	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Bland	This book was a little run of the mill.  The story sounded like it would be full of interesting stories about the people trying to escape from East Berlin but they never materialized.   The description if his defection / escape is interesting yet the writing makes one have to work to get through the text.  We learn of what it was like to live in East Germany and the changes that impressed him the most once he made it \\"over the wall\\".  The book just did not hold my attention for long and I picked it up every now and then finally forcing myself to finish it because I had so much time in it.	2002-04-13
1581080:US	41012519	R1PSX2KXK7R3K1	0393027503	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Too Narrow	I have read a good number of books covering Wall Street in the 80's and I really think there are better books out there, Den of Thief's, Predators Ball.  This book is entertaining, well written, and gives us a view we normally do not have, the traders.   With the movies Boiler Room and Rogue Trader, you can see that they take from this book.   I think the best part of the book is the behind the scenes, almost sub plot story of Salomon Brothers and Wall Street in the eighties. <BR>The down side for me is that this book really just focuses on a small part of the whole 80's Wall Street, Junk Bond and M&A world.  I would have liked him to have tried to captures so of the other things going on in his business t the same time and try and relate them to what he was doing.    The ending is also about 10 pages too long.   Overall this is an average book.	2002-04-13
1581130:US	41012519	R1EU0JG5IQ4PE7	0881846252	94988910	Conduct Unbecoming: The Rise and Ruin of Finley, Kumble	Books	1	9	12	N	N	No More Please	Dull, bland and too long - that's how I would describe this book.  I have a hard time imaging that even the people in this law firm were interested in this book.   It billed itself as the behind the scenes view of one of the most powerful law firms in Wall Street and the scandals that brought it down - a legal Den of Thief's.   Sorry, this description should almost be considered fraud.  How could so much bad writing fall into one book?   My only assumption is that the publisher must be related to the author and this is a favor or wedding present.     Stay away from this book like you would a messy divorce.	2002-04-13
1581190:US	41012519	R2VQPMSQN2AWO2	0881846481	361354622	Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy	Books	5	9	13	N	N	This Book is Engrossing	After reading this book I am now sure that the only two people that did not have a hand in killing JFK are JFK and myself.  This is a tour de force book that looks at every, and I mean every, angle of who could have been involved in the assignation and the issues with the story if the assignation.  It really just kept going on and on.   After awhile I got to think, oh this is just too much.  I know the author is trying to detail for us all the lose ends, un answered questions and possibilities but for me it was too much, maybe just pick the top 10 - 20, not the complete set of hundreds.  <BR>Don't get me wrong, this is a wonderful book, well written and really fast paced.   Much better the movie JFK that was loosely based on this book.   I doubt you will be able to put it down; the info is just so well put together.	2002-04-13
1581226:US	41012519	R7KMUBIXERR1X	0394578902	785034034	The Master Spy: The Story of Kim Philby	Books	3	7	10	N	N	OK Effort, Nothing Really New	Boy was MI5 asleep at the wheel.   It is really something that this level of KGB penetration could take place, especially in a government that was so focused on the issue of stopping the spread of communism.  This book details the Blunt, Burgess, Philby, Maclean and Cairncross USSR spy ring inside the British intelligence services.   This books main theme is trying to tell the story of one of the 5 spies as the leader of the whole enterprise - Kim Philby.   The book basically unfolds as a biography of Philby, instead of an overall review of the full ring.  Philby being the subject of the book, the author goes out of his way to increase his involvement in the spy ring thus increase the readers interested in the book.   He does a good job here, both with the detailed history and the way Philby interacted with the others in the spy ring.   The book rather closely follows the other literature on the topic.  I was a little put off by all the detail of Philby's best know personality trait, homosexuality<BR>Regarding the telling of the story the author does a good job.  The book was a bit jumpy, not the best construction of a story.   It also tended to drag at times; the author did not have the skill to present a laundry list of facts in an interesting way.   The author did do a very good job in documenting his sources.  I have read a few books on this topic and this one would probably not be my first choice, I suggest Spy Catcher.   This is a good book if you are deeply interested in the topic.	2002-04-13
1581237:US	41012519	R2EDZER8W872HJ	0813517486	446719644	The Hard Fall	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Hard Sell	The title describes what it feels like when the book slams into your head after you fall asleep reading it.   Bland, dull and obvious, all that in the first chapter.  Based on the outline of the story I thought this would be an interesting book.  This book is a rehash of a good cop, bad cop pair that take on a group of very nasty criminals and win in the end.  I did not believe the characters; they just were not well developed.   The author also tried to go down the path of the dark, brooding lead and he did not pull it off.   Overall, this is not that great of a book.   There are many others out there that are better.	2002-04-13
1581255:US	41012519	R3UYOBUM4K31OB	0671601172	418176353	Veil: The Secret Wars of the CIA 1981-1987	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Always An Interesting Author	I am a big fair of Woodward, so much so that I would even consider reading his shopping list. With that said I will give him a little slack on the Casey deathbed revelations. I think if the author would have know the level of scorn he has received concerning the \\"Casey confession\\" he may have used a tape recorder. <br />Overall this book gives the reader some very interesting stories about the Regan years and his use of the CIA. The reader of any book covering a review of a set of government policies that had a very firm stamp of approval or even the direction of the President will always fall on side or another on if the book is a truthful and \\"shocking\\" expos or a \\"political bias hatchet job\\". I think that is one of the fun things about this book, no matter what side of the argument you are on; you will experience some emotion while reading this book. If you are also very interested in this subject it is interesting to go back into time and read his review and then compare it to some of the new facts on the subject. <br />Overall, this is another Woodward book, well written and constructed, very detailed and full of a lot of conversations that make you feel that you are involved, not just page after page of monotone lecturing. I wish he spent a little more time on footnotes so that the reader could be a better judge to the research he puts into the book and the sources used. If you like Woodward, you will love this book. If you have leanings to the left then you will have a lot of \\"you see\\" stories to tell, and if you are a strong Reaganite then you will be happy with the strong effort described in the book to defeat the USSR.	2002-04-13
1581272:US	41012519	R386MUR0K45F7V	9991065474	675803362	Spycatcher	Books	3	4	4	N	N	He is a Bit Bitter	Boy was MI5 asleep at the wheel.   It is really something that this level of KGB penetration could take place, especially in a government that was so focused on the issue of stopping the spread of communism.  This book details the search for the highest place KGB spy ever.  As the story unfolds you almost think maybe the author's superiors were all in the pocket of the KGB, were too arrogant or self absorbed to think they had an issue, or so incredibly incompetent that they should have been taken out and shot once the issue came to light.  Regarding the telling of the story the author does a good job given he is not a professional author.   The British properness comes out at times and there is no hiding his bitterness toward his old employer.  I have read a few books on this topic and this one would be my choice, not necessarily because of the level of detail, but because this guy was involved in the issue.   A good book and a must if you are interested in the topic.	2002-04-13
1581395:US	41012519	R282OWMHTM4JV6	0140120904	54081815	The Predators' Ball: The Inside Story of Drexel Burnham and the Rise of the JunkBond Raiders	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not Completely Told	Based on the other reviews here you can gather what the book covers so I will not repeat that detail.  I thought the most valuable parts of the book covered the way Milken operated, both his personality and the business he created and directed.  There are a lot of interesting details covering him, but I thought that was a flaw in the book, it did not cover more of the other main characters in the 80's Junk Bond and M&A activity - people like Bosky, KKR etc.  The book also describes how the Milken office because so powerful it was given free reign, the very point that ruined this company - similar to the Houston office of AA?  The book also has the underlining theme that this activity and people were the worst part of American business and personal greed, that is an unfair characterization and you should keep that in mind while reading the book, a lot of good came out of this decade, it was not all doomed to failure.  If this is your first book covering this topic I would suggest you read \\"Den of Thieves\\" by Stewart first, it was better written and more interesting.   This is a good second step.	2002-04-13
1581410:US	41012519	RR1YQ8K0PUC11	0060934980	305024797	Clockers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Go Get This Book Now	Great book, it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this on his first try.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book that at its heart is a murder mystery.  I think this is just a Powerful book, I just got in the head of the main character - the writing is just that good.   ...   I will add that I loved the location descriptions and characters.  I doubt you will be able to put it down; the story is just so well put together.	2002-04-13
1581527:US	41012519	R1JQQVME6VXX8F	0002175363	459067877	Mask of Treachery: The First Documented Dossier on Blunt, MI5, and Soviet Subversion	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Not for the Beginner	Boy was MI5 asleep at the wheel.   It is really something that this level of KGB penetration could take place, especially in a government that was so focused on the issue of stopping the spread of communism.  This book details the Blunt, Burgess, Philby, Maclean and Cairncross USSR spy ring inside the British intelligence services.   This books main theme is trying to increase the roll one of the 5 spy's from one that has been traditionally thought of as a lower level pawn to one of the leader of the whole enterprise.   The book basically unfolds as a biography of Blunt, instead of an overall review of the full ring.  Blunt being the subject of the book, the author goes out of his way to increase his involvement in the spy ring thus increase the readers interested in the book.   He does a good job here, both with the detailed history and the way Blunt interacted with the others in the spy ring.   I just did not believe this book that fly's in the face of all the other literature on the topic.  I was a little put off by all the detail of Blunt's best know personality trait, homosexuality<br />Regarding the telling of the story the author does a good job.  The book was a bit jumpy, not the best construction of a story.   It also tended to drag at times; the author did not have the skill to present a laundry list of facts in an interesting way.   The author did do a very good job in documenting his sources.  I have read a few books on this topic and this one would probably not be my first choice, I suggest Spy Catcher.   This is a good book if you are deeply interested in the topic.	2002-04-13
1581568:US	41012519	R291FN9ORUC3Y2	155972210X	504541959	Passport to Assassination: The Never-Before-Told Story of Lee Harvey Oswald by the KGB Colonel Who Knew Him	Books	1	8	18	N	N	Cheap	I think that when the curtain came down on the good old Soviet Union the author looked around and decided he would make a little money with a book.  Unfortunate for him the spy tell all books were coming out of Russia faster then one could count.  The author must have then decided well lets milk the JFK assignation market.   There are interesting bits about how the KGB worked and what good old Henry did in the USSR, but overall a bit of a dull, less then built up book.   The author took a 15 page magazine article and made a 300-page book out of it.  If you are interested in this topic go straight to the tour de force of the group - Crossfire by Jim Marrs.	2002-04-13
1581575:US	41012519	RCKJ1VW17J4B2	0871135345	619431253	Bear Trap: Why Wall Street Doesn't Work	Books	1	2	2	N	N	I am Still Mad I Read This Book	I have something you do not, a signed first edition of this book.   Unfortunately, the book turned out to be such a dull, bland \\"text book\\" that the book was relegated to the 10 cents a pound book sale.  Ok, if you pick this book up you are looking to learn something, be taught something about Wall Street and the capital markets, read a discussion on what the problems are with M & A activity, higher PE ratios etc, not the most exciting but interesting.  You absolutely cannot do that with this book - it is just so dull that I wonder how the author and editor got through it.  Any valuable insight is lost to the reader because they have to keep adjusting the toothpicks holding their eyes open.  I would look somewhere else.	2002-04-13
1581619:US	41012519	R2C7PN6BLXSDXZ	0385245904	363910634	Secret Intelligence	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Nothing New Here	This book tries to give the basics of the intelligence organization of the western countries, the USA, UK and France.   It comes off as a very high level, average and uninspiring work.   There is just nothing new here and I wondered if maybe this was not written for an age group of under 15.  I was surprised because I had heard good things about his other work.   This is a rather dull book and I would suggest looking elsewhere.	2002-04-13
1581826:US	41012519	R1ULUIPGGO8XX0	0671089307	169498423	History of Western American Art	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good Overview	I learned some from this book as well as having a good-looking coffee table edition.  I would say that this book is basically an overview, but it is done very well.   There are a ton of color pictures thought out the book and the expiations are good.  I enjoyed finding out more about the particular artist and scene.   Overall this book is probably geared for the average person that just wants to know the basis of the topic.	2002-04-12
1581883:US	41012519	R2XCHHLA6XKIUJ	156129084X	269941594	Diplomatic Crime	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Title Says It All	Yes, one more reason to hate foreigners, they take all the good parking places and evidently can shoplift with immunity.  Ok a little simplistic, the dust jacket spells this book out pretty good, he has collected all the crimes these guys have done over the past 30 or so years and documented it, everything from parking tickets to murder.  The book wasn't bad, it was written well enough and was interesting.   He did not submerge you in needless facts, but kept the book moving.  If you are interested in the title of the book then you probably will like it.   I would not force it, if you have half an interested you probably will get bored.	2002-04-12
1581885:US	41012519	RAUTH43XWDKKG	0425143325	685045441	Without Remorse (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Go Get This Book Now	I continue to think that Clancy is a quality author and I will read anything he (not the team) writes.   This is no exception.  I really liked the development of \\"Mr. Clark\\", he is now the standard for the anti hero.  The story was also another good one, our hero saying enough is enough and putting his foot down.   You get everything you expect from one of his books, great characters with a lot of development, a strong story line, many sub plots that come together in the end and details - lots of details about weapons, tactics and anything else guys like to talk or read about.   I felt like going out and kicking a little drug dealer butt myself after finishing the book.	2002-04-12
1581985:US	41012519	R1WFEYGKXSGI0J	1561000310	921422880	Breaking the Ring	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very Interesting Book	What a scumbag, if spying against our country was not bad enough, this complete waste of a man drags his family and friends into it.  All for like $ 1 per page, how did someone this dumb get into the position he was in to do so much harm?  The story is very interesting, I could have even written the story and it would be entertaining.  Luckily that did not happen and the author did a great job.   He constructed the details and time line very well and easy to follow.   The explanations of what info Walker was giving out was also presented well.   If you are interested in this area then I would suggest getting this book, it is well worth the time and money.	2002-04-12
1582074:US	41012519	R17YSZWUKZTS2E	0553265156	487466199	His Way: An Unauthorized Biography Of Frank Sinatra	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Fun Fiction	I didn't know Frank was in the mob and was required to bed down every new star in Hollywood, oh yea an then there was the part about him and Jack Ruby... If you have ever read one of her books then this is the same thing, an easy to read book full of juicy rumors and assumptions that are fun to read.   My only complaint is that I think her legal team probably goes over the test better then the editors, some cuts here and there would have made it moves a bit faster.  This book is like a 350 page Start Tabloid issue devoted to Frank, if that is your type of thing this is a good book for you.   IF you are after an unbiased story I would keep looking.	2002-04-12
1582095:US	41012519	R2C90CR57AY7ZT	0394530055	692269123	Tim Page's NAM	Books	2	6	18	N	N	Nothing Special	This was a solid effort by this photographer that has basically made his career out of the Viet Nam war.  I thought the pictures were interesting and somewhat dramatic, but there was nothing that moved me a great deal.  This is not a book that you will show off to each new person that comes to your house; it is a good overview of the war.   If you are looking for a brief, general book then this is for you.	2002-04-12
1582346:US	41012519	R2DGJGPEJS3EC9	0241892937	724410618	The Road to Yorktown	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Basic Review	I picked this up at a book sale and to honest was not expected that much, I basically wanted to brush up on my facts.  This book offered me a good general detail of the American Revolutionary War.  The book is average; I actually think it would be better suited as a young adult (teenager) review book.   The writing was average, the presentation nothing to get excited about and the detail accurate but lacking anything unique enough to get your attention.   I understand that this author is a well know historian that provides good overview books.  This is defiantly an overview.   By the way I was happy because I got exactly what I wanted out of the book, a refresher course.	2002-04-12
1583037:US	41012519	R3VDY7ZXT5AWZB	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Would You Like That To Go?	Well its another McBook from the burn and turn factory know as Grisham Inc.  I am convinced he has a group of Santa's elf's slaving away in some South Carolina sweat shop turning these screen plays - sorry, I mean books out.   If you have read some of the authors books in the past you have a good idea of what you are going to get.   An easy to read and understandable book that is as light as cotton candy.  I actually think the movie was better.  Why do I read his books, for the same reason I eat junk food, it is easy to get, fast and not complicated.   Sometimes you just need a little light reading to take the stress from the day and his books fit that bill.	2002-04-11
1583061:US	41012519	R31JPXIIO6KQJ0	0679440399	900493506	Formosa Straits	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Painfull To Read	What happened to this author, his first book was one of the best I have read, the second was ok - better then average, but then he gave us this?  He should have dumped this manuscript in the Formosa Straight instead of publishing it.  Bland, lifeless and dull, without using profanity that is about all I can come up with.  I was dedicated to finishing the book becuase I was hoping for any small bit that would let me keep a high opinion of his, but the only good part was actually closing the book on the last page.	2002-04-11
1583071:US	41012519	R26AV94SF84P0E	0451171195	308837626	The Moscow Club	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Top Shelf	Hey, a new story.  In this category of books, it is getting a tough to find something new but this was.  I think this has been one of the author's best books, if not the best.   The story is very believable and tight.   It had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is just a good old exciting book. The author peppers the book with plot twists that keep the reader on his toes.   This author writes in a way that is tight and slick that keep you interested through out.   Great detail of the way the Russian government works (or doesn't).  Sit back and enjoy this book.	2002-04-11
1583073:US	41012519	RMTBAWFKL56X1	0679402071	497506845	Patriots	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exciting	Great book, it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this on his first try.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book.   The story is very believable and tight.   He did a very good job with the battle scenes, almost like you were reading Clancy.  Each time I was ready for a plot twist, action or drama it was there.   The characters just explode in your memory - you do not get them out of your head.  The ending was also a good one - you are expecting something close but the author has come up with something better.  Overall, this was a great effort.	2002-04-11
1583167:US	41012519	R1CDQPPKUOZ2CA	0679448381	883513491	Fear's Justice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun and Fast	This is one mean cop, the author takes the somewhat tired standby and doubles the nastiness and hatred to get a character that seams new. I thought the character was a personal embodiment of the bad parts of NYC from the 80's - at least for us who did not live there, our nightly news painted picture. This book is a fun, gritty book that has a very fast pace - - similar to watching a Die Hard movie, it is going to give you fast paced action and a satisfying ending. The characters are a bit one sided but it works in the book. This is not a character study with rich insights to the people, but an action thriller and gets up and moves.	2002-04-11
1583178:US	41012519	R1Y223QMKI37OI	0679415572	884117539	The Domino Conspiracy	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Complete Book	After you finish this book you will swear that he did not also write his first great book The Berkut. This book is one that you need a lot of coffee and bright lights on to stay as attentive as you need to be (and want to be) to grasp the many sub plots and subtitle twists. This book is not a fast paced thriller, but a rather slow moving heavy book that you really can sink your teeth into to. This book is not heading to the movie screen any time soon due to its complexity. I think of his writing this, it is what Clancy would be like if he had a Masters in English Lit from Yale. If you are looking for this type of book then you should buy this book, if you are looking for something lighter then many Higgins is for you.	2002-04-11
1583202:US	41012519	R38HYGPF52MRN0	0449912582	448693873	Dispatch from a Cold Country	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lots of Color	This is another exciting book from Mr. Cullen.  He really has a distinctive way a describing the dark beauty of Russia and getting into the heads the Russian every man.   The story has a great story line and he peppers the book with interesting sub plots that keep you interested.  With that said I did think the love story sub plot could have been left out.   I am convinced that long ago some book publishing executive wrote a set of rules which dictated that all action thrillers need some kind of sub plot love story.   Then one just seemed to me to be thrown in by the author to placate someone other then the author thinking it was an intricate part of the story.  Overall a good book, if you have liked his other work then you will enjoy this one.	2002-04-11
1583323:US	41012519	R1WBNBSGLPHIL8	0553099930	505552332	The Apocalypse Watch	Books	1	10	15	N	N	The Death Watch	I may be the one guy out there that does not like his books. What makes me mad is that I have gone through about three of them because he gets some much good press. I find the writing wooden and he just does not hold my attention. I also did not like the location descriptions.   It may have been different when the book came out, but I find the plot tired - so many times has it been done well that I did not need this version.   To be honest I only got about 175 pages into the book.  I just thought there should have been something, anything, to keep my attention.  The story just kept going on and on with not real light at the end of the tunnel.  Maybe I just have a mental block with him and the movies will be better.	2002-04-11
1583334:US	41012519	R35XXPRR3Q0NT2	0553297422	131345277	The Deceiver	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Interesting Book Structure	Not a bad little page-turner.  First off the structure of the book is four stories that all have one character placed in each one.   It was fun to explore how the author does it.  I liked the different story lines; most of them have been done before, but not this well or with this type of structure.  The book sneaks up on you and really sucks you in.   You find your self almost hurrying to the next page because the suspense builds through to the end of each of the stories.   Very good characters with competent development and well thought out roles within the story.   I would have liked a bit more detail on the locations.  Overall, this is a good old spy novel.	2002-04-11
1583335:US	41012519	RTFQNNE6J2LJ6	042516019X	545051235	Masquerade	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Average But Fun	I think this story line must be one of the top five repeatedly used in the fiction world, because of that I was somewhat hesitant to read this book that a friend recommended.  The story does move along and there are some interesting bits.   I would say that there is not a lot new here so do not pick this book up if you have grown tired of this plot line.   She also worked in the secret agent parts well enough, but again not in a unique way.  The cast of characters are straight forward and direct - she really only focuses on a small group.  On the other hand if you are looking for a fun book and keeps a good pace, then this is a not a bad read.  Overall all a fun book meant for relaxation reading.	2002-04-11
1583383:US	41012519	R2721YHWLUPY1Z	0788166085	959685156	Romeo	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Bit Dark	Ugh, she does a great job with the violence, slash by slash detail.  The book deals with some rather dark topics so be prepared for that.   On the brighter note the book is good.   The author does a very credible job with the character development, especially the women victims.  I would have liked more insight into the killer.  The main character has so much personal baggage you believe she would want to get into this world.   If you are looking for a mystery that is a light I would not pick this book up.   If you are looking for a book that takes on some issues we normaly do not get a lot of detail on then this is a good book for you.	2002-04-11
1583395:US	41012519	R1V4FYEISRK7AQ	006018728X	827417088	Charity	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Don't Start With This One	Let me start by saying that this whole series is best suited to be read in order.   I picked one up here and there and in doing so mixed the order up.   What that meant is that I had to do a little extra thinking at times and on some books the light bulbs went off for some of my earlier questions.  I also think these books are best suited to someone that is looking for a real characters driven spy story and not a action packed James Bond shoot em up.  Deighton is a writer, therefore he spends time getting to know the characters, their personalities - what they are thinking, not just when they are reloading their gun.  This being said I did think this end of the line book could have used a bit more action to punch it up, get the pace up a notch or two.  Overall it is a good, solid book that gives a satisfying ending to the series.	2002-04-11
1583439:US	41012519	R2O8QLKMYSUCFI	0312853211	220743737	The Swiss Account	Books	1	0	4	N	N	You Have to Give It 1 Star to Work	This plot (I use the word loosely here) had more holes in it then the cheese from the same country.  Ok so the details are correct, the only reason I kept plodding through this one, and it is just that he did not use the details to any great effect.  The writing here was very forced and not fresh, almost like a bad high school history book.  I have heard some good things about this author but I either picked up the wrong book or there are some people that have some explaining to do to me.  Where do I go to get a refund?	2002-04-11
1583487:US	41012519	R12MK1PZF0YANN	0752826506	58989979	The Zero Hour	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Very Fast Paced	This book is a lot of fun.  I was reading along and thinking it may not be bad to have this happen to my place of work.  This fast-paced book and the speed of the story helps to increase the tension and suspense.   I hate to sound like a dust jacket, but this book really is an action-packed thriller.   You have prison breaks, terrorists, low down scummy business tycoons, the CIA, and a good smattering of Joe everyday cops.   An interesting and exciting mix that keeps the book fast paced.  I have read other books by this author and he is getting better by the book.   More of his books will make there way to the big screen if he keeps up his history of quality writing.	2002-04-11
1583555:US	41012519	R9A4ZUZJD9CPQ	0671700510	456830317	Mackinnon's Machine	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Better Off as a Door Stop	It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more, the disjointed writing or the plot that seamed to just be thrown together.   I only made it about half way into the book.   I got to think after awhile that the author was leaving out about every third sentence, it just made that little sense.   There are many better books out there.	2002-04-11
1583556:US	41012519	RK8QV9EBPEVL7	0812550633	500563776	Kilo Option (Bill Lane)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Average Effort	Pull back the reigns on this one, there is a lot going on and I just do not think the author had the skill to weave it all together in a tight, convincing way.  Sure this book is interesting to read now given the state of American politics, but that is about the best I can say.  And why the love interest from the past?  I am convinced that long ago some book publishing executive wrote a set of rules which dictated that all action thrillers need some kind of sub plot love story.   Then one just seemed to me to be thrown in by the author to placate someone other then the author thinking it was an intricate part of the story.  I did find some of the detail of the Middle East interesting and the story does have its moments of fast paced action, but overall and average effort.	2002-04-11
1583611:US	41012519	R3DOR2T86YWDX9	0745154220	643304757	The Patriot	Books	2	3	3	N	N	He is better reporting a story then making one up	Sometimes I wonder if the professional review organizations give every book such great review?  I had some high hopes for this book as I have read some of his non-fiction work.   I came away from the reading a bit disappointed.  The story was inventive, but the cast of characters were a little to stereotypical and not very well developed.  As the book unfolds the story that interested me from the dust jacket started to get a little unbelievable with his writing, I just kept saying \\"No Way\\".   With the combination of the lackluster characters and the increasingly unbelievable story I lost interest at the end of the book.  I simply finished it becuase I had put the time into it.  I would stick to this authors non-fiction works	2002-04-11
1583615:US	41012519	R2H3ET15D8RZ3W	0380728168	445627204	Final Victim	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Bland	The final victim may be the reader.  Ok I am sure it is difficult to come up with a new exciting story all the time so I do not get too disappointed when an author goes to the holy grail of thriller writing - the bad cop, good side kick murder mystery caper.  But this book pulled out so many of the good old stand by's that I thought it was written just to add them in.  Sure the story is good - we all know it, and the action keeps you reading that particular section of he book, but the author tried to make these dull, well used characters have some depth and he just could not pull it off.   I do give him credit for trying to make these central casting characters a little more meaty, but unfortunately all it did was slow down the book.  If you are looking for something new, this is probably not the one to stop on, if you are looking for a standard fair action mystery then this will fit the bill.	2002-04-11
1583685:US	41012519	R1TNH76SRM4SVH	0553560441	807031892	The Road to Omaha: A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I may be the one guy out there that does not like his books. What makes me mad is that I have gone through about three of them because he gets so much good press. I find the writing wooden and he just does not hold my attention. Maybe I just have a mental block with him and the movies will be better.	2002-04-11
1583693:US	41012519	R3EOYXUZ7NJQEF	0451186346	221389957	The Burglar Who Thought He Was Bogart: A Bernie Rhodenbarr Mystery	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Never Again	It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more, the disjointed writing or the plot that seamed to just be thrown together.   I only made it about half way into the book.   I thought there was going to be a mystery here somewhere - maybe that is the mystery.  I got to think after awhile that the author was leaving out about every third sentence, it just made that little sense.   There are many better books out there.	2002-04-11
1583703:US	41012519	R2T7JTRZJ4MIL8	042513900X	652448190	Pressure Point	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting Story	Given the current troubles in the Middle East this would be an interesting book to read.   It has a lot of the mainstays from this type of action novel, but the author still puts together a great book.   I thought the sub capture plot was interesting but I thought James Bond did it once before?  Anyway you can tell this guy has first hand knowledge because the action, devises and tactics are all believable - not the \\"oh come on\\" type you some times get in these books.  The story is well constructed and has a nice flow.   The one down side for me would be that I assumed that this would be a bit more difficult to pull off, but it was the story - so go with it.   Overall this is an interesting and fun book for casual reading.	2002-04-11
1583737:US	41012519	R1IJC8GQQWROOB	0374184232	223320206	The Laws of Our Fathers	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Needed A Better Editor	I think the author was trying to fit two books into one here, a view of the 60's race relations and a legal thriller.   Becuase of that I think the thriller got a little crowed out.   I have no issue with the story line and some of the detail, but I thought it took more away from the book then it added.   He is known for writing tight, suspenseful legal thrillers, great fiction that you can sink your teeth into.  The subtle preaching of societies wrongs also left a bad taste in my mouth, I am looking for fiction when I pick on of his books up.  On the other hand he is a good author who writes in a somewhat complex way so that you have to pay attention.   This is not the McBook of Grisham, but a deeper telling of a story. He has put out much better books in the past and I would suggest starting with them before taking on this beast of a book.	2002-04-11
1583759:US	41012519	RC7K3IXK0V75F	0671746693	909897750	The Eagle Has Flown	Books	3	4	6	N	N	This Author Can Do Better	This was the follow up to the Eagle Has Landed. I wish he had not tried so hard to get my hard earned dollars and spent more time working on this story. I fell into it thinking it would be as good as the first and came away disappointed. I also think he has put out much better books and this one was the first to really disappoint me. The book is just an average book. This book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters. Because of the light development it does not hold your attention. Overall it is just an average, light World War Two action novel that does not do him credit.	2002-04-11
1583775:US	41012519	R3PFWVLKR63GST	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	5	3	3	N	N	All Around Great Story	Hey, wait a minute, am I confused or did somebody write a dark, spooky alternate history novel that can actually claim to be at the same level as Gorky Park?  This is an all around great book; it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this on his first try.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book.   The story is very believable and tight.  You can really believe the out come of the War produced this.  Ok so it is not the only book out there with a Germany won theme, but he pulls it off very well.  It is dark but you need that darkness on this type of book, something light and happy would not fit the premise.	2002-04-11
1583778:US	41012519	RRBGPXBSORKBE	0345376951	818574577	China Lake	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Red Fox Was Better	I think his best effort has been Red Fox, that book is truly a five. This good is a close second but does not have the tension and great mystery that Red Fox had. This author writes tight, slick books that keep you interested through out. This is an interesting book that combines espionage with a murder mystery. You are never in need of additional details with this author, he really fills the pages up, and for some I think this can be too much. This really is a book that has two - three very well developed and written plot twists that makes you stay on your toes. I have reread the book and it is something how well he places the road signs. This is a great book; unfortunately he was not able to keep up this form into his next.	2002-04-11
1583779:US	41012519	R1LZ4KOJCHJP1N	067174643X	434867685	Moscow Twilight	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Dont Mess With The Master	Another one trying to be like the master.   This is not Gorky Park.  What it is, is a very good second class.   The location of Moscow is always written as dark and bleak and he does that well.   The two main characters working together does not really work for me, I did not believe the reason they were together thus there pairing put me off of the book.   For those of you who like a story to have one main plot and not confuse the issue with too many extras then you may enjoy the book.   The characters are average; more detail would have been nice.   Overall I think this is an average effort in this rather crowed field.	2002-04-11
1583798:US	41012519	RLCHHB9CS69XT	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Subject Matter Details	Give it to Mike, he will write about it.  Most authors now days just develop a formula and just pump out he books one after the other.  That is one of the reasons I always give him a little slack, he tries to take on new and different themes and topics - ok the T Rex books are all about a new vacation home.  I am a bit of an airplane junky and read a good amount on the industry so I loved the extra details he throws in, it gives the book more depth without slowing it down at all.  The book also has a good, thriller type of pace that keeps you interested.  The only draw back I have is that maybe he could give us more on he characters, a little back story or maybe a sub plot of two.  Becuase the story is very straight forward and not complicated with anything extra it reads easy, if that is what your looking for this is an integrating book	2002-04-11
1583811:US	41012519	R1AAKY8ULJY37Q	0449002640	442800937	The Unlikely Spy	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not a New Story	I am amassed that the author could take this story line and get any new mileage out of it.   As a matter of fact, from reading the dust jacket I though maybe another very similar book had just been re-titled, but becuase of all the good press I went ahead and picked it up.  Sure we have some well used characters but the author does a good job of making you familiar with them.   He keeps the story moving, the one thing I have noticed is that when author take on one of these time tested plots, they try to make it unique with either a completely unbelievable story line, they bog the book down with endless and un-need subplots, or they concentrate on some much character development they almost become biographies of a fictional person.  This author does not do that.   He wrote a tight, well constructed story that keeps you interested through the full book.   I also read a lot of World War Two non-fiction and the author does a very good job with the details.  Overall this is a very enjoyable book that is worth the time.	2002-04-11
1583849:US	41012519	R2HQ1CMSHIG11B	0451171195	308837626	The Moscow Club	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Top Shelf	Hey, a new story.  In this category of books, it is getting a tough to find something new but this was.  I think this has been one of the author's best books, if not the best.   The story is very believable and tight.   It had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is just a good old exciting book. The author peppers the book with plot twists that keep the reader on his toes.   This author writes in a way that is tight and slick that keep you interested through out.   Great detail of the way the Russian government works (or doesn't).  Sit back and enjoy this book.	2002-04-11
1583948:US	41012519	R12IVSDU5G77JO	0553574604	120642208	Icon	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Bad	This is another exciting book from Mr. Forsyth.  He really has a distinctive way a describing the dark beauty of Russia and getting into the heads the Russian every man.   The story has a great story line and he peppers the book with interesting sub plots that keep you interested.  He has a way a writing a very well thought out exact story that does not leave any loose ends.  There was a lot of good, interesting details here - similar to a Clancy book.  My only complaint would be the ending, a bit too clean and easy.  Overall a good book, if you have liked his other work then you will enjoy this one.	2002-04-11
1583949:US	41012519	R3FOKCMNQ7IY05	0345384733	982017226	Red Square	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Author, Great Story	This book is great, a very good book in a wonderful series. You know this is a great series because of all the other books that claim to be just like it.  This was really the first series that I believed the dark disgruntled cop roll - he really sells it well. I like the plot twists and the pace. There is also a lot of time dealing with life in the USSR, which is great background. Once you read this you will search out the rest in the series.  I only hope he continues to put them out.	2002-04-11
1583991:US	41012519	R1Z2WMJAHJGSPY	0394565525	965219803	Hard Line	Books	1	12	12	N	N	Quality Takes A Fall	I must have missed something, considering the amount of praise heaped on the author on the dust jacket, I thought I was about to read War and Peace.  There was nothing new here, and the story line moved around like a heart monitor display - no consistent track - grabs something here, something there.  This really is a very disappointing book.	2002-04-11
1584007:US	41012519	R1V4IBDTLM85Z1	0345386132	673212239	Eyes of a Child	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Almost a 5	This is a very good, interesting and smart legal thriller.  He has also got a very good mystery built in.  The story line is very good with enough sub plots and interesting characters to keep it interesting through out the book.   You keep asking yourself, who did it?  The inter character dialogue is also a part of the book that keeps your interest.   He writes a deeper book then many of the others out there in this filed so it is a book you need to pay attention too.	2002-04-11
1584015:US	41012519	R1Z1CKAK4HOUD6	0745142702	717397175	City of Gold	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Not His Best, Far From It	I wish the book had as much luster as the gold it talks about in the title.  Bland, dull and obvious, all that in the first chapter.  Based on the outline of the story I thought this would be an interesting book, and I have read some of his World War Two based books before which were ok.  Unfortunately, the best writing was on the dust jacket.   I got the feeling he just put this together to give him more time to get another of his famous spy novels completed.  I would skip this one.	2002-04-11
1584021:US	41012519	R14GBI7ZI42V0K	0060176962	116819434	Hope: A Bernard Samson Novel- 2nd in the Faith, Hope and Charity Trilogy	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Average	Let me start by saying that this whole series is best suited to be read in order.   I picked one up here and there and in doing so mixed the order up.   What that meant is that I had to do a little extra thinking at times and on some books the light bulbs went off for some of my earlier questions.  I also think these books are best suited to someone that is looking for a real characters driven spy story and not a action packed James Bond shoot em up.  Deighton is a writer, therefore he spends time getting to know the characters, their personalities - what they are thinking, not just when they are reloading their gun.  This being said I did think this book could have used a bit more action to punch it up, get the pace up a notch or two.  Overall it is a good, solid book that gives you a decent amount of entertainment.	2002-04-11
1584084:US	41012519	R3NIVYP6YNHCXA	0312959974	768479968	Watch Me: They Said She Couldn't Catch A Serial Killer. She Said... (Jay Fletcher Thrillers)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Ok Effort	This is a Fun Book, I wish some more of this old west justice was used today.  Ok so the story is a little predictable, but it is entertaining.   The book moves fast and is easy to read.   There is some violence that is graphically detailed.  The characters are developed enough for the book to work.   This is not War and Peace but a light summer read that will keep your mind off other issues for a few hours.	2002-04-11
1584097:US	41012519	RYHSYCIFC861J	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Read it Now	I read this book when it came out and it is everything you expect from Clancy, a very well thought out story line with lots of details, great character development, rich in sub plots and story.  Ok, he is increasingly leaning to the right of Rush Limbaugh, but that is kind of the charm.   Well, now comes the new global reality we have with the 9/11 attacks and wow, this book almost reads as a historical fiction book.   Ok, it still needs a little bit of faith on the readers part, but look at what is in the book, a presidential sex scandal, A passenger plane used as a weapon, biological terrorist attacks, and a President with a CIA background (ok wrong Bush but close).  All Clancy fans have either read this book or will regardless of the reviews here.   For those of you that have not read one of his I think given the times we are in this is a great start and will open you up to a catalogue of great fiction by Mr Clancy, his non-fiction is even not bad.	2002-04-11
1584130:US	41012519	R1TEWD8OSGV129	055307122X	978673543	Catalyst	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Blah, Blah, Blah	I did not believe the story of the characters at all, neither was well developed.   The author also tried to go down the path of the \\"dark, brooding\\" lead that will alone save the world and he did not pull it off.   I also did not like some of the writing; I found it a bit forced or dry.  Not much between the covers.  Sure the story sounds interesting, but somehow that does not translate to what is actually written.  Overall, this is not that great of a book.   There are many others out there that are better.	2002-04-11
1584177:US	41012519	RYESTVLGSV9BD	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	3	1	2	N	N	One More Time	Another in the long line of McBooks this author puts out.  Sure I read them, I think for the same reason I eat fast food, it is easy to get through, fast, and always the same.   He does do a good job with these easy to read books, many people love them.   I think we all know that for the most part this is pulp fiction, average stories, not very deep characters development and a light writing style that does not take much effort.   With that said I found one thing troubling with this book, how likely is it that this person keeps getting on the juries?  If you are a Grisham fan you will undoubtedly like this book, if you have not read anything from him I would suggest his first three books.	2002-04-11
1584200:US	41012519	R2TVIULUTCHZ8B	0451166892	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth: A Novel (Kingsbridge)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	His Best	Warring, I loved this book so this review is just going to be a long list of comments devoted to the author and this book.   Now that we have that out of the way lets talk about his best book.   I have read almost all of his books so it goes without saying that I like the author.  It is just that this book is so good it surprised me.   This is nothing like the rest of the books he wrote and to be honest I did not know if I would like it.  He just crafted a wonderful, rich piece of artwork in-between the covers.  The story stretching over the generations of the lead family, is just full of great writing and interesting details that make the book come alive.  I would say that the author keeps the story line tight enough focused so that as the years go on we do not wonder off on sub plots that just fill up space.  You could wonder how that is with a book of this size, but he does it.   This book is one that you can get your teeth into and really enjoy, you will find yourself talking about the book long after you have finished it.	2002-04-11
1584202:US	41012519	RBMZEWLOLQBIM	067943447X	822975646	Sleeper Spy	Books	1	2	6	N	N	No More	The book should have been called sleep inducing.  Blah Blah Blah, basically what we have here is a 350 page boring column about how we should always hate the Russians and maybe anybody else not American.  I came away after reading half of the book, that he just pulled up the average character list for a spy book and put them in with no additional work, they were so light that you could see through them.   This was a good story line, he just completely ruined it by trying to hide a Pat Buchanan book in the fiction section.  Save your time and money.	2002-04-11
1584229:US	41012519	R1JT462EAADP66	0745136818	49171801	No Time for Heroes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun Book	Ok so we get two standards in the thriller world, the unlikely pairing up of two anti heroes and the dark, problem ridden cop who some how work together and save the world.  So did it work, yes it did.   I may have been a bit biased when I picked up the book becuase I have read many of his others in the past and they have all been wonderful so I expected this to also be.  This author is great at building the speed of the story up so that you stay turned in and race yourself to the end of the book.   Well written story and characters add to a great book that is well worth the time.	2002-04-11
1584283:US	41012519	R3RUEB9QQJVFVB	0812548426	498222703	Spooker	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Slow and Disapointing	Well the story line looked interesting, unfortunately for the read that is about all that is interesting with this book.  To make up for a rather plodding slow start was an ending that tempted you and them body slammed you into the ground with disappointment.  With the combination of the lackluster characters and the increasingly unbelievable story I lost interest at the end of the book.  I simply finished it becuase I had put the time into it.	2002-04-11
1584288:US	41012519	R2LSIO3MNAGUHC	0440213525	282981210	The Client	Books	3	12	21	N	N	More of the Same	Well its another McBook from the burn and turn factory know as Grisham Inc.  I am convinced he has a group of Santa's elf's slaving away in some South Carolina sweat shop turning these screen plays - sorry, I mean books out.   If you have read some of the authors books in the past you have a good idea of what you are going to get.   An easy to read and understandable book that is as light as cotton candy.  I actually think the movie was better.  Why do I read his books, for the same reason I eat junk food, it is easy to get, fast and not complicated.   Sometimes you just need a little light reading to take the stress from the day and his books fit that bill.	2002-04-11
1584449:US	41012519	RZBJQUOCIJYB4	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Yet One More	Another one in the Grisham burn and churn machine of legal thrillers. All of his stories are about the same so I will not add to the other reviews full of the story details. I just could not believe the main story line, and for me that spelled the death of the book. I kept saying to my self - \\"yea right\\". Overall, the author continues in his long chain of McBooks and gives us something that holds your interest over TV commercials, but really does not offer a sink your teeth into story. This book is a light, easy to read and complete legal novel that will be forgotten in a few years.	2002-04-10
1584522:US	41012519	RI0WGWWK7QC1N	038072880X	937357785	High Crimes	Books	5	4	5	N	N	You Will Have  A Lot of Fun Reading This Book	I have liked every book he has put out so you probably can guess that this review will be positive.   Sure the book moves fast, he has a writing style the lends it self to economic word choice.  The characters are good but what I found the best was his superbly constructed story line, so me little twits and turns, it really kept me in my seat reading.  The military world of justice and the way they get things done adds some what of a bit of mystery becuase we really do not know that much about it other then it seams a bit harsher then the justice the rest of us face.  I am sure the book has a flaw or two - which ones don't, I just could not find then.  Sit back and enjoy this book.	2002-04-10
1584611:US	41012519	RXX9NB45IXW4C	0812829484	258199543	The Judas Code	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting Look At the Subject	This is an interesting book, it gave me something I normally don't read - almost a human interest story.   It has a very insightful look at relationships if you take it away from the main story.   The writing is far less dark then many of the other books that get close to this particular topic and region of the world.  Given the large amount of book in this class, his one stands out becuase of the writing.   He has a very good flow through out the book and he is a master at describing the location and people involved.    I think we get to know the main character becuase the author does such a good job of dropping into the story bits of the lead characters life and thoughts, so you really come away with a strong sense of the man.  I love the level of detail and the story that takes in all the twists and really makes it work.   This is a book for a reader that wants to become part of the story and pay attention.	2002-04-10
1584669:US	41012519	R39ZTU8Q2QO0DH	0718143515	676199375	Field of 13	Books	1	0	0	N	N	13 Reasons Not To Read this Book	If you type in \\"Field of 13\\" in Amazon you get about 20 books from the US Department of the Interior talking about grassland studies and the effectiveness of different pesticides.  If I were you I would pick one of those documents over this book.   It really is that bad, I almost thought I saw this as an episode of Simon and Simon - quick, easy plot that takes no brain power at all to comprehend.   To be fair I only got to page 100 so maybe it did a 180 and got better but I doubt it.	2002-04-10
1584851:US	41012519	RNIPOKS13MTLZ	0446607401	758579524	At All Costs	Books	3	17	17	N	N	A Get Up and Go Kind of Book	Overall this is just a fun book, it moves fast and is easy to read.   The characters are Mr. and Mrs. everybody thus you identify with them easily.   The story is fun if not a little on the &quot;yea right&quot; side of the bench.  Ok so some of the actions the lead characters pull off are really not in keeping with a clean cut pair of middle Americans, but hey it's a fiction book.  The plot is a little light, there really is not much going on except the main story line and the writing could give us more depth and details, bur becuase it was exciting I let it pass.  It reminds me of the movie &quot;Airplane&quot;, everyone enjoys watching it but it is not going to be on the AFI top 100 movies list anytime soon.    Go into this book not expecting a lot and you will enjoy it.	2002-04-10
1584922:US	41012519	R2VICSJ0KPJ7LK	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	You Know What You Are Going To Get	This book is another competent effort by Clancy.  I was excited that he was going back into the large scale war story line that he did so well with in Red Storm Rising.  For me the whole Jack Ryan as President role just does not work.  This book probably could have done with some of the uncut pages left out, it does go on and drags a few places.   It must be the power he has gotten over this editors that each of his books that is driving them to be increasingly longer.  With that said I am a big fan of Clancy and I thought the book moves along and is never dull.  Let me add that you always get a lot of detail and fact with a Clancy book, this is one of he reasons I really like the books and the reason some of my friends are getting turned off.   The extra pages on the detail and weapons bring extra value to me.  If you like Clancy you will love this book and probably do not need these reviews to prompt you to buy one.   If you are just curious then give it a try or grab one of his earlier books.	2002-04-10
1584957:US	41012519	R34339OQP7KFKF	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Above Average	Who did not love the first two books in the sires?  I thought they were both great so I had high hopes for this one.   I would say that it is a bit of a let down, not so much that the effort is not a good one, but probably becuase I built it up in my head.   I not only read the last book, but we all know the movie was just wonderful - that and the buss around this book probably meant Th I would be disappointed.   The story was a good one, the additional characters are ok, not playing that large of a roll in the story so the fact that they are average is not a big deterrent.   It was just that I thought he lowered his standards a bit by so heavily detailing the gore.   I think the pace is great and if you like a straight forward story this is it, there are not a lot of sub plots.  Overall the book was an ok effort from Harris,  in the genre it is above average.	2002-04-10
1584988:US	41012519	R37DPHW7SSQ0FO	0380715473	338305031	Lies of Silence	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Just Average	I want to offer a little dissent here.   I thought the book to be a bit dull and slow.   I really labored to get through it and becuase of it completely turned me off to the rest of his work.  I just did not buy into some of the main stroy points. It could be that I spend too much time reading action fiction so I need a fast paced book to keep me interested.	2002-04-10
1585041:US	41012519	RY2M1YELAH0JA	8408029037	744685956	Monstrum	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Not MCS	When will I learn, whenever I pick up a book that says it is the next XX - I should remember this book.  Gorky Park was a fabulous book and this book did not live up to it.   Don't get me wrong, I liked this book and it did have same similarities to Gorky Park (almost too many).  I liked the descriptions of how Russia had fallen in the book into a complete state of everyone out for themselves ruthlessness.  The serial killer bit was ok, not a copy of anything else we know but the author did not really sell it to you.  I also thought the political side story / cause was a little distracting becuase it was too pushy - you knew it would have a part to play at the end.   Overall I think this is an average book.	2002-04-10
1585105:US	41012519	R3P9W88JJ3DUNY	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	All Around Good Effort	This book is another competent effort by Clancy.  I was excited that he was going back into the Jack Clark story line.  For me, this is one of his better characters becuase he is such a man's man.  This book probably could have done with some of the uncut pages left out, it does go on and drags a few places.   It must be the power he has gotten over this editors that each of his books that is driving them to be increasingly longer.  With that said I am a big fan of Clancy and I thought the book moves along and is never dull.  Let me add that you always get a lot of detail and fact with a Clancy book, this is one of he reasons I really like the books and the reason some of my friends are getting turned off.   The extra pages on the detail and weapons bring extra value to me.  Becuase of the believability of his role in the story, with the back ground we know about him, I completely trust the character.   This believability of the role and character are the main reason I can give this story some slack.   I was hard pressed to believe the story line at first, but through out the book you come to believe in it.   If you like Clancy you will love this book and probably do not need these reviews to prompt you to buy one.    If you are just curious then give it a try or grab one of his earlier books.	2002-04-10
1585171:US	41012519	R3B5JS7PDL8SFV	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Plup Fiction	Another one in the Grisham burn and churn machine of legal thrillers. All of his stories are about the same so I will not add to the other reviews full of the story details. I just could not believe the main story line, and for me that spelled the death of the book. I kept saying to my self - \\"yea right\\". Overall, the author continues in his long chain of McBooks and gives us something that holds your interest over TV commercials, but really does not offer a sink your teeth into story. This book is a light, easy to read and complete legal novel that will be forgotten in a few years.	2002-04-10
1585261:US	41012519	R3ORQOL0PH4LVK	0449227421	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	2	3	4	N	N	This Book has Average Written all over it	I did not enjoy this one as much as I did main of his other books.   I guess I did not think it grabbed me at the start like many of his works.  He always produces a decent book, and for someone who wants a book that is somewhat interesting, easy and simple, this will fit the bill.   If you are looking for something more he just did not get to that next level.   The story is an inventive one and he just about pulls it off.   I don't know why I didn't think this a real gripping boo, maybe it was just that all the work that went into it, the character development, plot, etc was just a little average and blah.     I would read this one over a Grisham or Turow, but there are also much better out there.	2002-04-10
1585320:US	41012519	R32A15M9JTHKCL	0374234574	524581926	Pleading Guilty	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Needed A Stronger Editor	I thought his first book was just great so I had high hopes for this one.   I would say that it is a bit of a let down, not much more then an average work.  The pace is great but I think the author needs some help in the overall construction of the story.   There is a lot going on, many sub plots - normally that makes for a much more engrossing book, but here it did not work as well.   It seemed to me that he had so many plots he could not devote enough time to each one thus detracting from the overall effect of the book.  I also thought, although he devoted a good amount of time to them, the characters were not as engrossing as some of his others.  Overall the book was ok in the genre, but it seemed like he rushed this one out the door without some much needed detailing.	2002-04-10
1585430:US	41012519	R33O0EMBJN5X4U	0385334656	891667833	Inconceivable	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Light reading	My wife read this book and then suggest I should as she thought is was funny.   This is absolutely not an area I ever read books on so I was very sectional.   Well the book did have some funny spots, it is also interesting for an American to read about like in the UK.   The characters are light and easy to know - much like the story.   This is not a deep read, just a light fun book that couples \\"trying\\" will probably enjoy.	2002-04-10
1585497:US	41012519	R32I1FJVL4IJG0	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Effort	I rather enjoyed this book. The author does a good job telling a story that is not exactly a new one. Given the large amount of books in this class, his one stands out becuase of the writing. He have a very good flow through out the book and he is a master at describing the location and people involved. If you are into crime stories this is one of the better ones out there. Ok some of the story is a bit out here, but there is some much of the human condition as we know it that would come to the surface that you can see yourself in the book. There is just something about the main character that you really get to like. It is not that he is a great human, he just has a human quality that comes through. I think we get to know him becuase the author does such a good job of dropping into the story bits of the lead characters life and thoughts so you really come away with a strong sense of the man. I love the level of detail and the story that takes in all the twists and really makes it work. This is a book for a reader that wants to become part of the story and pay attention.	2002-04-10
1585650:US	41012519	R36M5DBWTJLF59	0786889373	236418256	The Big Picture	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Yea Right	I liked the idea at first, then I got into the story and I am wondering - wait a minute, has this ever worked?  And why am I cheering for this guy?  I got to wondering how could Mr. do right turn into Ted Bundy overnight?  The book is well written and I liked the main character, but I just had a hard time believing the story and that was before the end.  I may be a little hard on the author, again the book was interesting - I finished it, the characters were good and the first part moved along well.  I just did not believe the story line and that left me second guessing everything from them on.  And why Montana, go to LA - it would have been more fun.	2002-04-10
1585737:US	41012519	R3HCJETDTP0CHC	0515121495	944918112	The List	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Fun if not High Quality	All people who enjoy reading should pick this book up.  Overall this is just a fun book, it moves fast and is easy to read.  The insight into the publishing world are a very interesting set of facts.  I really did believe all of he story.   I actually liked this book better then his last one Undue Influence - just from the point of view of the book publishing story line.   The story is fun if not a little on the &quot;yea right&quot; side of the bench with the main plot - surely there is a better way to do this?.  The plot is a little light, there really is not much going on except the main story line and the writing could give us more depth and details, bur becuase it was exciting I let it pass.  Go into this book not expecting a lot and you will enjoy it.	2002-04-10
1585772:US	41012519	R2ZIMS6XWG72JH	0345390458	543344242	Havana Bay (Arkady Renko Novels, No 4)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Still a Good Book	I really think this series is this authors best story line and set of characters.  When I read some of this other books, I just do not get into the story as much as I do with Arkady.  He again creates this dark, brooding lead character that you believe in, even though it seems to be the central casting type for these type of parts.  I was concerned that this book took this character, that I know so well, out of Russia - would the author be able to create that overall sense of foreboding that he does so well in Russia?  I think so, at least he made the parts of Cuba that may resemble Russia stand out.   Overall the story is a good one, with the normal relationship sub plots for Arkady.  The mystery holds up to the end and the book has a decent pace.   I do think it is not as good as the other three, he is trying to move the story along and that is the difficult part - - we all love aspects of the original Gorky Park and the further the author gets away from that book, the more he has to change to keep the stories somewhat fresh.   I  think this 4th book was the biggest step, the first three were very close to each other, almost additional chapters to the original work.  It is a difficult balance and I think we will really not be able to tell if it is working until the 5th one of the series.	2002-04-10
1585826:US	41012519	R1P95N1G2A0ZBP	0425122956	315470668	Majestic	Books	1	4	17	N	N	Never Again	Don't tell anyone I read this book, my mother got it for me, although I have no idea why.  So I had to read it.  I almost never read science fiction so you many not want to take this review as your only source on this book.  This book was just plain weird.  I kept hoping it would get better, but I came away thinking this weeks edition of the Star Tabloid may have better writing and a little bit more info on this area 51 space ship plot.  The only thing that kept me awake was the book hitting me in the head when I dosed off.	2002-04-09
1585836:US	41012519	R5VNWSA1RI5S8	0374117349	756714989	The Burden of Proof	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Average Follow Up	I thought the author slipped a bit with this book, not as good as some of his others.  He constructed a good book with a step-by-step progress to the end and he can weave in a sub plot of two.  I just did not like some of the writing; I found it a bit forced or dry.   Overall he always delivers a good story, I would read his work over many others.  You do need to pay attention with his books, they are an easy ride - he wants to keep you involved to then need.   He is good at this form of book and if you like him you will like this one.	2002-04-09
1585962:US	41012519	RB9SM5BZKJ65T	0399139540	145288617	Debt of Honor	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Very Solid Effort	Another competent effort by Clancy.  For me the whole Jack Ryan as President role (in later books) does not work, but as NSA he is a perfect fit for the job.   Becuase of the believability of his role in the story, with the back ground we know about him, I completely trust the character.   This believability of the role and character are the main reason I can give this story some slack.   I was hard pressed to believe the story line at first but through out the book you come to believe in it.   You always get a lot of detail and fact with a Clancy book, this is one of he reasons I really like the books and the reason some of my friends are getting turned off.   The extra pages on economics and weapons bring extra value to me.  If you like Clancy you will love this book and probably do not need these reviews to prompt you to buy one.   If you are just curious then give it a try.	2002-04-09
1585964:US	41012519	R3FAPQL2C5FE7C	051511605X	103681379	Undue Influence (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Very Good Book	This author has yet to produce anything that is not above average.   You can do a lot worse.   I found that this was a great book, the author does a wonderful job.   This book moves along and is never dull.   Lots of details that make it come alive.   The characters are so interesting I wanted more of them.   He does a great job in keeping the story going, even in the more dry aspects of a court room back and forth.  The plot and subplots keep you interested through out the full book.   It is just a good book.	2002-04-09
1586003:US	41012519	R2ANDAY5T1ERMR	0061004359	892735751	Condition Black	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Almost Pulled It Off	I picked the book up because I wanted to see if the author could pull this story off in a believable way.   I think he missed the mark, at least with me.  The characters where out of a bad 1950's B movie and this lack of character depth plus the far fetched story did not get enough credibility with me.   There are many other books out there that a much better, reread a Clancy if you can find nothing else.	2002-04-09
1586018:US	41012519	R1UVQINLGLPYAL	1558174753	724072605	Ussa	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting New Story	Hey, a new story.  In this category of books, it is getting a tough to find something new but this was.  They won and here is the aftermath.  This book is inventive with a small cast of characters that are really detailed.  The story line is good and with the suspense of the underground spy vs. the KGB, the book keeps you interested.	2002-04-09
1586073:US	41012519	RJIICHKS8X3HS	0553563513	40945852	Point of Impact (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Overall Excellent  Book	Great book, this was my introduction to the author and I have sense read a number of his other books.   I do find that this series is his best.   There is just something about the main character that you really get to like.  It is not that he is a great human, he just has a human quality that comes through.  I think we get to know him becuase the author does such a good job of dropping into the story bits of the lead characters life and thoughts so you really come away with a strong sense of the man.  I love the level of detail and the story that takes in all the twists and really makes it work.   This is a book for a reader that wants to become part of the story and pay attention, it is not the light cookie cuter books like Jack Higgins et all.  This book is a very good action book that is well written.	2002-04-09
1586090:US	41012519	R238AHZ7FZWZU9	0679409351	626370636	The Wrong Man	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Average Effort by Author	This is more the wrong book.   Ok the story was not that bad, it moves fast and there is a lot of action, but it is a little thin.  The author did not spend enough quality time working on the characters, why they did what the did etc.  If you read a number of books in the genre you were guessing the end of the book about a quarter of the way in.  The author really tries to get a Clancy type converging subplot structure but it seems forced, it almost aggravated me with the hard cuts from one to the next.   There is not a lot of subtly in this book.  It does provide a story that is at least average.	2002-04-09
1586095:US	41012519	R1MEKXQFYY5UYO	0804107998	774796938	Soviet Sources	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Super Book	Great book, it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this on his first try.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book.   It really made me happy reading the book; it was like a great game of treasure hunt where you find everything.  Each time I was ready for a plot twist, action of drama it was there.   The characters just explode in your memory - you do not get them out of your head.  Overall great effort.	2002-04-09
1586137:US	41012519	R18SOJPAJ3I46N	0670830178	904725512	The Third Circle	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Not Much Here	This book is more like the third strike and your out.  I kept looking for a story to develop and up to the point I quit reading at page 145 it had not.  I thought the story sounded good - Current espionage with a little world War Two back plot.  Unfortunately for me and all other readers, it did not develop into a readable book.	2002-04-09
1586138:US	41012519	R44SKWASTTM2H	1883402271	560453711	Last Chance for Glory	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Dull	If you are looking for something new it is not here.  I think I have seen this story in a few different movies.  Maybe the title of the book was more talking about the author then the story.  Anyway this one is really just flat, nothing exciting or new.	2002-04-09
1586198:US	41012519	R2FDVQ3BF5ORP0	1590060164	23410205	Immaculate Deception (Fiona Fitzgerald Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Good Amount of Detail	Another great book by this author.   If this is your first but them all because you will really be pleased.   They are just what I am looking for.  Interesting and inventive stories and really grab your attention and move at a great pace.  I really believed the hatred and pain the lead character was carrying around with him as he went on the hunt.   The action was well written, not immature like so many of this type of book give you.  You are really cheering this guy on.	2002-04-09
1586218:US	41012519	R3GE99HM01DSFN	0553572172	248727828	First Sacrifice, The	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Too Confused	The first sacrifice was to the readers of this book.   The story really stretches believability and for no reason.   Change some of the characters and you would buy into it.   Another issue I had was the confusing sub plots that seemed to be through in just to add another 50 pages to keep up the size of Clancy or Ludlum books.   Some of the characters were interesting and the end third of the book came together, but all in all it took an heck of an effort to get to the end.  This is a book that takes all of your concentration to get through, and for all that work the pay off is not that rewarding.	2002-04-09
1586267:US	41012519	R13RT26284A5SH	1556111940	706602247	Flashpoint	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Average Follow Up	If you have read some of the authors books in the past you have a good idea of what you are going to get.   An easy to read and understandable book that is full of action.   Because of this I am starting to stay away from his books because I am looking for books with a little more depth.  With that said I did fall back into my old habits and read this after picking it up at a sale.  He really delivers on a fast paced action book and it seams like he is trying to expand some and use more main characters.   For a Higgins book this is pretty good, I am still giving it a bit of a knock because I think with as much experience as the author has he could give us more character development.	2002-04-09
1586287:US	41012519	RBCFVI2R6M5PK	0312921047	610212732	Zebra Network	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Average	I liked the story line, although I never believed the CIA would kill one of there own.   The details of the time in the USSR are engrossing.  Other then that the book turns out a bit above average.	2002-04-09
1586337:US	41012519	R1HBBXUESAW4ZX	0891414118	181029312	Crisis	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Bland	After falling asleep three times while reading this book I decided it was not for me.   The worst part is that I could not seam to remember much about it at all, it left that little of an impression on you.  The story is just not inventive.	2002-04-09
1586370:US	41012519	R3YYTY9K5MVY	0345386213	824222973	Extraordinary Powers	Books	4	7	9	N	N	High Quality Story	I thought his first book was just great so I had high hopes for this one.   I would say that it is a bit of a let down but still a very good work.   It delivers just a fun read that keeps a real good pace through out.   There are a fair number of course changes and sub plots that keep it interesting.   As he did in Moscow Club, he writes very smart characters that keep you involved.   I also am very pleased with the political detail he places in the books and the tension that tends to bring.   Overall a good effort and a book well worth the price.	2002-04-09
1586379:US	41012519	R1CDMGGIJJCKS1	0380712008	270256192	Crux	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Hits Keep Comming	Another great book by this author.   If this is your first but them all because you will really be pleased.   They are just what I am looking for.  Interesting and inventive stories and really grab your attention and move at a great pace.  I really believed the hatred and pain the lead character was carrying around with him as he went on the hunt.   The action was well written, not immature like so many of this type of book give you.  You are really cheering this guy on.  The only critique I have, and it is a minor one, is that I really did not believe that they would keep him as a POW for so long.   Other then that I bought into the whole boo.   Great Job by the author.	2002-04-09
1586429:US	41012519	R1WPV51B5N41F6	0688090540	870410610	An Accurate Watch	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Maybe it is Real	This is one of my favorites of the cold war fictions.  I loved the location descriptions and choices; you start in North American and just keep going east.  This is a smart, fun book that gives the reader a great story and a lot of interesting historical facts about Russia.  This really is a book that has two - three very well developed and written plot twists that makes you stay on your toes.  I have reread the book and it is something how well he places the road signs.  The trade craft details are very intersting.	2002-04-09
1586455:US	41012519	RLKBC7LB9JK9M	0002231026	366274742	Janus Man	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Nothing Much to Write Home About	Like Janus, this book had two faces, one bad and one ugly.  I do not mind it if an author is going to pass off an old, well-used story line on us - this is the spy mole hunt with the odd pairing of hinters, but you have to make it interesting.   We just kind of moved through this book at a plodding pace that never picks up, the characters are so weakly described that you really never care to find out what happens.   I heard he was a good author so I struggled through to the end, but I now regret the lost time.	2002-04-09
1586470:US	41012519	R2LLIBG0B3VWH3	0345364732	460681815	Rune	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Exciting	This is a good book. It had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is just a good old exciting book. The author peppers the book with plot twists that keep the reader on his toes.   This author writes in a way that is tight and slick that keep you interested through out.  This is a solid murder mystery.  Ok, so the detective that is used is straight from central casting, but that book is not bad.  The story comes together and you believe it.  I would have liked a bit more depth on the locations and characters, but not a bad read	2002-04-09
1586471:US	41012519	R2AHLVR852JQPW	078620382X	190176063	Faith	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Nothing New	This is a new book in a series that gives you the tried and true.   The style and pace continue into this new series and the characters are known.   I would like to make the observation that maybe this is the last set, they have been getting a bit darker and slower as they go.  The one thing that disappointed me is that there does not seem to be anything to new, sure we have different story line, but overall you know what is going to happen.   This is an easy, comfortable book that does not surprise you, but delivers a good enough story.  I am sure the die in the wool fans will love it.	2002-04-09
1586515:US	41012519	R3O45V45ED00HW	0671737384	196883083	Flames of Heaven: A Novel of the End of the Soviet Union	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rich Characters	This book may be in the wrong category.  I would not really place it in the action group becuase it is a display of a deep character driven novel.  It is really a very interesting look at this difficult time for Russian's.  It was also much more enjoyable then I thought it would be.  The descriptions of the locations and main home were very good.  I also liked the characters that were created.  They had depth and feeling, not just scratch the surface to fill pages.  The book is not the feel good hit of the year, it does had a rich plot that you need to keep up with, but the author rewards your efforts with a masterly written book.  I think when it comes down to it that is the strength here, the writing is just very good, a lot of feeling comes out.	2002-04-09
1586526:US	41012519	R2G1NCXYKK0DZ2	0385313292	624648249	Cold Cold Heart	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not The Best Ever	The book sure did get a lot of hype, so much so I thought it was going to prove to be one of the better ones I have ever read.  The positive this is that man this book is fast, you get going and it just keep clicking along.   I found my self routing for the hero of the story in a kind of \\"go get um - more violence\\" kind of way.  The action rich story line is well put together and read like it was going straight to Hollywood.   The only real down side for me, and the reason I did not think it was a great book, is that the hype I heard made me get really excited to read it.  I was disappointed with the relationship of the two lead characters, also too off the self for me - They could not get the good cop, bad cop combo so they went with the vigilante / reporter.   That really is a bit nit picking on my part, the book is quite cool, really holds your attention and is fun to read - after all that is probably why we buy the things.	2002-04-09
1586537:US	41012519	R3SJMCFAYJH01J	0446600415	619563221	The Day After Tomorrow	Books	2	8	18	N	N	Only Read Half	For a plot that has been used so many times you think it would have worked a bit better.  The book started off well enough.   I got into the extra sub plots - they were done well.  The character mix was engrossing with good descriptions and development.  The author is a good writer, always painting vivid pictures for the minds eye of the surroundings and locations.   It is just the last third of the book disappointed all most to the level that when I came to the end I was mad.   I felt I had been hoodwinked, how could the first two third's of the book be so good, fresh etc and the last bit be such a half hearted effort on a tired plot?	2002-04-09
1586566:US	41012519	R2EFKJDWU19Q47	0785758941	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Another Excellent Book From Clancy	I continue to think that Clancy is a quality author and I will read anything he (not the team) writes.   This is no exception.  The one thing I liked is that the government was doing something that showed some mocxy, I mean they were putting their foot down.   You get everything you expect from one of his books, great characters with a lot of development, a strong story line, many sub plots that come together in the end and details  lots of details about weapons, tactics and anything else guys like to talk or read about.	2002-04-09
1586591:US	41012519	ROKUNAH59R41L	0671709380	421383182	London Connection	Books	2	0	0	N	N	So-so	Some of his other work is much better.  This book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters.   Because of the light development it does not hold your attention.   I just did not believe the characters.  I kept waiting for it to get better which is why I toughed it out to the end, but I was disappointed overall.	2002-04-09
1586596:US	41012519	R1KWG2GROWKSS6	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Solid Book, Well Thought Out	I thought the story was interesting although on of the older ones in literature - family, greed, tragedy.  I think what really got me into the book was not the description of the lead character but of the dim witted brother that is not much of a go getter.  Becuase of the real characters the author creates, you really can see this happening.  I was thinking at the end of the book there probably is not other way this story could have unfolded with this mix of characters.   I also liked how the author wrote a book about a dark topic in the dead of winter but the book did not take on an overall dark heavy tone that was so popular in the 80 - 90's.  I did not think there were a lot of twists that were forced, the story was well thought out and constructed.  Overall a very good effort.	2002-04-09
1586696:US	41012519	R2055Z5UF4KJZI	0385239629	77838929	One Eyed Kings	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Nothing Much to Write Home About	I must have missed something, considering the amount of praise heaped on the author on the dust jacket, I thought I was about to read War and Peace.  There was nothing new here, and the story line moved around like a heart monitor display - no consistent track - grabs something here, something there.  This really is a very disappointing book.	2002-04-09
1586702:US	41012519	R2N9INYKACVQ6I	0385424728	233513923	The Chamber	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Much Deeper Then His Other Books	For me this was one of his better books.  The reason is that I think he took a story line that had some real meaning and most of us see parts of on the TV all the time.   He then really got into the characters and story.   He develops it all the way to the end.  I truly felt for the prisoner at the end of the book.  The book does not move off the main path it set for itself.   A lot of my friends felt the book was too slow or heavy, but for me I think most of his other books have been to easy and light.  You have to and want to spend time with this book.  The time pays off in the end with a book that you will remember for a good time to come.	2002-04-09
1586711:US	41012519	R31C49XVMPWMSA	0671683241	919259484	The Harbinger Effect	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Below Average	This is a workman like effort by the author.  The story, spy vs. spy is not a new one and you will not find anything memorable here.   I did not believe the characters; they just were not well developed.   The author also tried to go down the path of the \\"dark, brooding\\" lead and he did not pull it off.   Overall, this is not that great of a book	2002-04-09
1586746:US	41012519	R1NL28SODKE4TM	074517177X	294255535	The Run Around (Portway Large Print)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Light, Easy to Read Book	This is a good book. It had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book.   It really made me happy reading the book; it was like a great game of treasure hunt where you find everything.  Each time I was ready for a plot twist, action of drama it was there.   The characters just explode in your memory - you do not get them out of your head.  Overall a great effort.	2002-04-09
1586761:US	41012519	RWWNPQTA7SB8Z	0394577671	342884897	A Spy at Twilight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Keeps You on Your Toes	This was an interesting period of time; authors were still giving us the tried and true spy vs. spy and the USSR was on its last legs.  This is one of those books, but it is very good.   The author peppers the book with plot twists that keep the reader on his toes.  You cannot take his work for granted; so much is going on that if you get a little complacent you miss things.  The characters are also kind of cagey; they tend to surprise you at times.  Overall, this is one of the better books from the end of the cold war.	2002-04-09
1586803:US	41012519	R1VKOXBMDGLUBG	0708958060	200170247	Red Ink	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Flat	I would have preferred if this book would have been written in invisible ink.   Maybe I have read too many books of this genre, but I am beginning to become tired of the much used stereotypes and standard sub plots.  The best thing that I can say about the book that it was enough of a story to keep me reading hoping it would pick up and finally I was so far into the book I have to finish it.	2002-04-09
1586850:US	41012519	RFAIOIRWQP2IK	0688067174	864197956	Night Launch	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Not for Me	It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more, was it the disjointed writing or the plot that seamed to just be thrown together.   The highlight was the interesting details of NASA, which come from the author.  I only made it about half way into the book.   There are many better books out there.	2002-04-09
1586892:US	41012519	R37JZ5O8A4Y57K	0553572423	328007521	The Fist of God	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hard to Put Down	Great book, it is even more interesting now then when it came out given the current Middle East issues and the focus on Saddam.   I have read a number of non-fiction books about the Gulf War and Saddam and they really dove tail into the details the authors provides.   There is a well developed set of main characters that add a punch to the book.   The details of the war and society of Iraq are really special, you almost think parts of the book are non-fiction.   The plot is think with additional relevant sub plots that add to the story not just add pages to the book.  The book is a work of fiction so there are some liberties taken but overall a very solid, well constructed story and is believable.	2002-04-09
1586925:US	41012519	RFNT6QHASOQ4S	0312039492	844450729	Concerto	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not Completely Sold	I know this was something new for this author and I have read Winter Palace, that is why I was a bit disappointed with this one.   This book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters.   Because of the light development it does not hold your attention.   I just did not believe the characters.  I kept waiting for it to get better which is why I toughed it out to the end, but I was disappointed overall.	2002-04-09
1586961:US	41012519	RUF0SPP2B497M	0425120430	947264477	Day of the Cheetah	Books	2	28	32	N	N	I Was Not Sold	I think I was expecting something more from this book.  I know he has a large following and has done very well with sales, but I had a hard time placing this guy that high on the mantel. The much better (and unfortunately shorter) version of this theme is Firefox.  I usually like a lot of character development, but what we had here was just high school gym chatter.  The fighter scenes were not badly written, but it was not enough to save the whole book.	2002-04-09
1586965:US	41012519	R3IXU78ONL9ZGG	0821731769	744060780	Zero Time (Zebra books)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Dull	I have zero patience for books that are this cheesy.  He should have used more of his hard-hitting journalism in writing this book; maybe it would have been more of a page-turner.  Overall, this was a dull book with a plot that does not excite.   I gave it 150 pages and then had to drop it.	2002-04-09
1586986:US	41012519	R3JVJ5DPQMC0IO	0553283936	475102812	The Negotiator	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Exciting	I thought the author slipped a bit with this book, not as good as some of his others.  I just did not believe the story line therefore I spent the rest of the book looking for errors (to his credit I do not think I found many).   Overall he always delivers a good story, I would read his work over many others.  You need to pay attention, as the story is not written to put you to sleep, but to get the excitement level going and for the reader to pay attention.   He is good at this form of book and if you like him you will like this one.	2002-04-09
1586996:US	41012519	R128G2CEDABF0Y	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Yes Sir A Good One	I think this has been one of his best books, if not the best.   The story is very believable and tight.   I can feel the emotion of the lead character going from a hand to mouth existence to having all that power and money.   I also really believed the trouble he had with the loyalty to the firm, the want of the cash and the pressure of the FBI.   A great book.	2002-04-09
1587008:US	41012519	R3P98YBMMWDFN6	0345367650	641383212	Polar Star	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Please Keep Writing	I thought this was a very solid follow up to Gorky Park.  The characters lot in life and situation make since to me.   The same strong character building comes through to thus book and that dark, a bit desperate feel is there also.   I look the feel of the book, in describing the fishing ship - I can smell it, the description is that good.  I also liked the story, I was wondering how he was going to give us a fulfilling murder mystery to solve and he did it.  If you liked his last book in this series then you will really like this one.	2002-04-09
1587062:US	41012519	R3LML4GF9V5Z79	0881845167	667817406	The Good Spy	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Overall Good Book	Not a bad little page-turner.  I liked the story line; it has been done before, but not this well.  The book sneaks up on you and really sucks you in.   You find your self almost hurrying to the next page because the suspense builds through to the end of the book.   Very good characters with competent development and well thought out roles within the story.   I would have liked a bit more detail on the locations.  Overall a good book from the period.	2002-04-09
1587082:US	41012519	RBAH6D0JPMFD2	0399133453	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great One From The Master	I personally think this is the best Clancy book   He really did an excellent job weaving the different sub plots into one wonderful story.  As always you get a lot of detail and wonderful full descriptions of the characters in the book.   He always does a great job of running a number of sub plots through out the whole book and meeting them up at the end.  That is always one of the fun things with one of his books, trying to determine ahead of time how the richly described characters are going to play off of one another for a great climax.  Another reason I think this is one of his better books is I think the editors had more influence over him at this point in time and that effective editing keeps the book tighter then some of his later work.   I have always been confused as to why this one did not get as much attention as some of the other books.	2002-04-09
1587090:US	41012519	R3MVAN55WKCGR7	0345370066	966099780	Spy Line	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Consistent With The Other Books	I could be wrong, but if this author did not invent the dark, disgruntled, close to disrespectful spy novel then would did?   This is another in the series and is not bad.  What I like with these books is you always know what you are going to get, nothing new to slow you down.   I can handle that lack of creativity because the author does such a good job at telling a story.   The story, spy vs. spy in Europe, is not a new one and you will not find anything really new or memorable here.   Overall the book is average and if you like the category or the author you will like the book.	2002-04-09
1587113:US	41012519	R1UN61FAWTNAZH	089296281X	344070651	New Kind of War	Books	1	2	6	N	N	A New Kind Of Dull	I think the only thing more boring then the periods of time the author describes in the book is the actual book. After the persistent call of a friend of mind to try another book from this author I did, or at least 125 pages of it. This is book was supposed to be a thriller it must have come after I stopped reading, and if it is a character study then the people the author created are the single most dull group out there. If you are a fan of this author maybe you can see the charm in the book, but if you are looking for a good read -keep moving.	2002-04-09
1587138:US	41012519	R2GOC6A5SC1BEK	1560549920	715778352	Spy Sinker	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Very Good Book	I would have to agree with many of the other reviewers in stating that this is one of the better Bernard Samson books.   It is a good follow up and great end to this series.  He pulled off a book that has a good deal of suspense through out.  There is also a lot of human drama outside of the spy vs. spy game.  If you are into espionage books this is a great set to send time with.	2002-04-09
1587177:US	41012519	R1PVQVJNFDP60Y	9580444323	809235974	Jack & Jill (Spanish)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Solid Mistery	He has done better in the past, I felt like he rushed this through because the strong continuity he has had in past books did not seam to be here in this one.  The story had some good aspects for example there was no shortage of interesting characters to get into (how many killers can there be in DC?).  The one thing that I did like is the speed of the book; I think it is the short chapters just make me feel good, like I am really accomplishing something.   Not a bad book, just not his top game.	2002-04-09
1587185:US	41012519	RELMQY8Z6GP7L	0553287737	202706560	The Bourne Ultimatum (Bourne Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Not for Me	I may be the one guy out there that does not like his books.   What makes me mad is that I have gone through about three of them because he gets some much good press.   I find the writing wooden and he just does not hold my attention.  Maybe I just have a mental block with him and the movies will be better.	2002-04-09
1587211:US	41012519	R36BZB16Y91K6E	155611348X	230580871	The Cain Conversion	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun, Easy Read	This is a cool book with lots going on.   I am always up for a good old spy vs. spy and this book is that at the base, but the author through in a psychopathic killer into the mix.  The story is a fun read.   The characters are well enough written and the plot construction is believable.   Overall the mix of the two types of genre is done very well and it gives you a book that you run through.   You do not have to think too hard to read the book which for escapism is good.  It is an enjoyable book to pass the time on a summer weekend.	2002-04-09
1587254:US	41012519	R2S9MNFC3S2E0R	0451169867	667256203	Playing the Dozens	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Play Somewhere Else	Average.  I felt like this was a book in search of a story.  The author certainly filled the prerequisite of putting a lot of words on the pages but unfortunately they do not do anything together.  I was looking for a tight, risky book - much as the dust jacket implies, but I got something much less entertaining.  The only good thing I can say is that not many of the words had over 5 letters in them.	2002-04-09
1587266:US	41012519	R3I291FAFMXL7R	0385264909	37862067	The Cambridge Theorem: A Novel	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Not Bad	This author writes tight, slick books that keep you interested through out.  This is an interesting book that combines espionage with a murder mystery.  Ok so the detective that is used is straight from central casting, but that book is not bad.  The story comes together and you believe it.  I would have liked a bit more depth on the locations and characters, but not a bad read.	2002-04-09
1587300:US	41012519	R14CVQWFVXPBS2	0553282352	151918758	The Day Before Midnight	Books	4	4	8	N	N	High Quality Book	I think Point of Impact or Black Light was better books, but he defiantly has a good one here also.  He just produces wonderful character driven stories that when they work (and this one does), they really grab you.  The tension is there though out the full book.  The story is very developed so much so that you see the missile silo, the room the main character is working in etc.  Another thing about his books is that they do not play to the lowest common denominator for action books; he gives the reader some respect and expects an IQ over 70.  A good book that is worth the time.	2002-04-09
1587329:US	41012519	R310NLAO7HFSCU	0312851952	481761559	End Game	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Same Old Thing	This is another fast paced police win in the end book that proves a sledgehammer is mightier then a good pen when it comes to having a story one needs to think about.   This is an overall entertaining book that moves fast and does not weight the reader down with things like messy sub plots or details like character development.   It is fast and has action,  there is just not a lot of thinking required past a fourth grade reading level to get through this book.	2002-04-09
1587349:US	41012519	R12CJRQPMSLRM8	051510843X	56821121	Wallflower	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Police Thriller	I think this is one of the better police thrilers of the time period.  He defiantly has a good one here also.  He just produces wonderful character driven stories that when they work (and this one does), they really grab you.  The tension is there though out the full book.  The story is very developed so much so that you see the crime sceens.  Another thing about his books is that they do not play to the lowest common denominator for action books; he gives the reader some respect and expects an IQ over 70.  A good book that is worth the time.	2002-04-09
1587387:US	41012519	R2R1S5K7FBBZGZ	0061001430	15274174	The Running Target	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Drop the Book and Run	Keep running if you are handed this book.   Not much between the covers.  Sure the story sounds interesting, but somehow that does not translate to what is actually written.  To many stereotypes, I mean it was really funny after awhile.   I gave it 150 pages then had to give up.	2002-04-09
1587433:US	41012519	R20LRUIP7EDEHM	0671042793	533745123	The Russia House	Books	3	2	10	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I have an issue with this author so this review my not be representative of many.  This is the first book of his that I read and I just did not get excited.  I wanted to, I had heard great things about him.  I felt that this is a rather uninspired book.  I found the story line very familiar due to the fact that I think I have seen it in a number of other books.   The cast of characters was not bad and for me is the only real high point of the book.  I just wanted more of a story that was not so boring.  The one positive was the correctness in the details of the tradecraft used.	2002-04-09
1587444:US	41012519	REVSA1I77GL10	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Very Dark	This is another interesting book.  It has a very insightful look at relationships if you take it away from the main story.  This is probably his best work.  The writing is far less dark then many of his other books.	2002-04-08
1587462:US	41012519	R7AHR4KCMOCDV	0553263226	366818317	The Bourne Supremacy (Bourne Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	One of the Few	I may be the one guy out there that does not like his books.   What makes me mad is that I have gone through about three of them because he gets some much good press.   I find the writing wooden and he just does not hold my attention.  I also did not like the location, I thought it would be interesting but I started to think I was with Jim Jones.  Maybe I just have a mental block with him and the movies will be better.	2002-04-08
1587512:US	41012519	R1C349E9NK9BZM	0812881842	252856755	The Golden Express	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Keep Looking	This book is a take off on a real event at the end of World War Two dealing with holocaust loot captured by the allies.  That is about the nicest thing I can say about the book.   It was really trying to get up to the average mark but it did not make it.  Overall it was just dull.	2002-04-08
1587590:US	41012519	RJSD7APY50PUW	0151312877	459248260	First Loyalty	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Rather Slow	This author's first loyalty was not to the reader.  I did not believe the characters; they just were not well developed.   The author also tried to go down the path of the \\"dark, brooding\\" lead and he did not pull it off.   Overall, not that great of a book.   There are many others out there that are better.	2002-04-08
1587622:US	41012519	R1S57G63EMIQW0	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Book	This book was scary, at least I thought so.   Overall I thought the story was very good, almost as good at Silence and better then Hannibal.  The book is heads and tails above the movie so do not use that as a guild.  The detail of the killers character makes you really get to know him, and you do not like what you find.  The end has its good points and bad, you will be surprised.	2002-04-08
1587643:US	41012519	R3VQR1OICKCUTP	0870212850	853466247	The Hunt for Red October: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of his Best	For my money this is by far the best book on the market to deal with this topic.  This is probably one of the best books he has put out in my opinion.  The story is really good, he keeps it moving and it is really engrossing.  The characters come to life and you can really see the environment with his skillful writing.  This book is defiantly worth the time to read it, once you start you will not want to stop.	2002-04-08
1587645:US	41012519	R1QHZTC6LMBAY7	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Bit Long	This book probably could have done with some of the uncut pages left out, it does go on and drags a few places.   Overall this is a great job of taking the world we know it and making a fiction story that you think a few times - this could happen.   Ok some of the story is a bit out here, but there is some much of the human condition as we know it that would come to the surface that you can see yourself in the book.    He did a great job and this book is well worth the time it takes to get through.  Much better then the TV movie.	2002-04-08
1587657:US	41012519	RFTZ2UTEAQ28I	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Court Room Scenes	Not a lot new here on the story side, you probably have even seen the movie.   What I like about the book and I think is the authors best quality is the court room and leagal drama he can create.   I love the detail and do not get bogged down by it.  He gives you enough detail to sink your teath into and really work with.   THis is not a 200 page weekend book.  I think it is his best book and better then anything Grisham has put out over the last five years.	2002-04-08
1587682:US	41012519	RNW24XZXSCHPW	0312955510	765295582	The Heart of Justice	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Less Then Zero	I must have missed something, considering the amount of praise heaped on the author on the dust jacket, I thought I was about to read War and Peace.  There was nothing new here, and the story line moved around like a heart monitor display - no consistent track - grabs something here, something there.  This really is a very disappointing book.	2002-04-08
1587684:US	41012519	RSE0NEYWZ27S6	0140098178	675970104	The Defector	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Slow	This is a rather uninspired book.  I found the story line very familiar due to the fact that I think I have seen it in a number of other books.   The cast of characters was very small (at least the ones the author spent time on), and they were a bit boring.  The one positive was the correctness in the details of the tradecraft used.  Why did I finish it?  My mother bought it for me at a garage sale and I felt obligated.	2002-04-08
1587696:US	41012519	R3OBHPZAUW0UO7	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Book	What can I say that has not already been said.   It is a bit dark and too short, but a great effort none the less.	2002-04-08
1587762:US	41012519	R1BMLRS6XV6209	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Interesting	Interesting book.  I first read it in 1984 and had a lot of fun picking out the items he got correct.  I reread it recently and it is even more fun.  The writing is not real uplifting, but all in all it is a good book.  Everyone should read it.	2002-04-08
1587764:US	41012519	R1NMD53V7G1258	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Book I Wish Was Longer	This is a very good novel of a survival tail that turns into a look at the working of a closed off socity.  The book is well written with great descriptive writing, interesting characters and a insightful theme.  I would have liked about another 100 pages to really get into the relationships more.  The story is tense, exciting and suspenseful.	2002-04-08
1587765:US	41012519	R1VBC6QKG98VV3	0812830180	97885031	Kremlin Conspiracy: A Novel	Books	1	3	5	N	N	If There Was Half A Star	It takes a lot of time (or it seams that way) to get through this book.   I do not know what slowed me down more, the disjointed writing or the plot that seamed to just be thrown together.   I only made it about half way into the book.   There are many better books out there.	2002-04-08
1587780:US	41012519	R3CVIUP0SX5Z7Y	0892962240	15243059	For the Good of the State	Books	1	1	8	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I have to admit this was a sale table buy and I wish I had left it there.    I have a hard time really getting into a British character if it is not well written and these characters were not.   Unless you are a big fan of this author, my advice is the stay away.	2002-04-08
1587781:US	41012519	R2HK59TJ1TY3T3	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not His Best	I did not enjoy this one as much as I did main of his other books.   I guess I did not think it grabbed me at the start like many of his works.   You get the always great character work of Steinbeck and the description of the town is wonderful.   You can do a lot worse then this book, but it was not his best.	2002-04-08
1587837:US	41012519	R1VK33UYQ9CKT8	0805063749	664898594	The Milagro Beanfield War	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Much Better Then The Movie	This is just an all around fun story.   Lots of details that make it come alive.   The characters are so interesting I wanted more of them.   He does a great job describing the town.  The plot and subplots keep you interested through out the full book.   It is just a good book.	2002-04-08
1587886:US	41012519	R3EJJJZGF2CJX3	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	He is Just The Best	This is the reason many people feel he is one of the best American authors of all time.  This book is fantastic, there are no other ways around it.  This is probably one of the best books he has put out in my opinion.  The story is really good and it is really engrossing.  The characters come to life and stay with you almost like old friends.  He is such a good author that he describes the environment with such skill that you see everything.  Once you start you will not want to stop.	2002-04-08
1587928:US	41012519	R25MLPTQSYJO4T	0671004107	860650224	Contact	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I Need More of A Ending	The lead in was great.   Good details, very interesting suspenseful story.  I just thought the end was way too fast, almost if he said, enough of this - lets end it.    I am looking for the second half of the story.  The book was better then the movie.	2002-04-08
1587954:US	41012519	R117WESGYS05CU	0345332687	643735305	London Match	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great End to the Series	I would have to agree with many of the other reviewers in stating that this is one of the better Bernard Samson books.   It is a good follow up and great end to this series.  He pulled off a book that has a good deal of suspense through out.  There is also a lot of human drama outside of the spy vs. spy game.  If you are into espionage books this is a great set to send time with.	2002-04-08
1587990:US	41012519	R3BPI13VHZQTLE	0140186395	974134151	East of Eden (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Drama	This book is probably what Michner was reading when he started creating his books.  Steinbeck does this big drama like no one else can.   The story is really good, he keeps it moving and it is really engrossing.  The book is filled thoughout with plenty of interesting and complex characters.  He does a great job describing California.   This is not his best work but an all around great effort.	2002-04-08
1588029:US	41012519	R35DFG4MJTFMLS	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	2	1	7	N	N	A Bit Slow For Me	I want to offer a little dissent here.   I thought the book to be a bit dull and slow.   I really labored to get through it and becuase of it completely turned me off to the rest of his work.   It could be that I spend too much time reading action fiction so I need a fast paced book to keep me interested.	2002-04-08
1588094:US	41012519	RCS6I0GKIR20M	0671737120	676425212	Sword Point	Books	3	1	3	N	N	One Trick Pony	This is the second book by this author that I have read hoping it would be a bit better.   I am now sure that about the only thing the author does do well is to provide you with one thing - combat action.   If you are looking for a Clancy type lead up and details do not look here, but if you are looking for raw action then this is it.   The story does not really do much for you, nor the cast of characters.   Reading this book is like watching an auto race on TV, you can do it with only one eye on it and you really are only looking for the crashes - here you are only reading to get from on action section to another.	2002-04-08
1588128:US	41012519	R312DONF36THLP	0140109501	418617597	In the Long Run	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Sleep Inducing	After falling asleep three times while reading this book I decided it was not for me.   The worst part is that I could not seam to remember much about it at all, it left that little of an impression on you.  The story is just not inventive.	2002-04-08
1588188:US	41012519	R1P6SCVUTWZ6CQ	0440204429	652064883	Perfect Victim: The True Story of the Girl in the Box	Books	3	2	9	N	N	Average	This was a very interesting book, but pretty standard fair for this class of book.   The one thing I kept asking myself was why didn't she leave, the explanation of this issue in the book did not convince me.  Overall a well written book that is easy to fly through.	2002-04-08
1588240:US	41012519	R3MF7Z9ZP59C8	0446359688	227289374	Red Phoenix	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Average Fair	I did not enjoy this book as many of the other reviews have.   The plot was not really that inventive, these two countries have been shooting at each other over the DMZ for 45 years.   Anyway the story just did not grab me, there are better books out there i.e. anything from Clancy.   He did offer a lot of good background of the area and weapons.  Overall an average story.	2002-04-08
1588250:US	41012519	RL1W98RUCQ53P	0002229781	172132368	The White Tiger	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Interesting Book	Although the book is billed as a thriller on the cover, I would say that is shortchanging the book.   The author really spent a lot of time developing a feel for the book in Asia, you could really see each street seen.   The book is much more of a mystery with a great, wide cast of characters that all get a good amount of time.  A good amount of politics is intermixed through out the book.  This is a smart book, but one that does not lend its self to a fast read.  Sit down and take the time to really enjoy this book.	2002-04-08
1588272:US	41012519	R1AAFZSQV8VU73	0394544439	604392911	The Red Fox	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Just A Great Book	This is one of my favorites of the cold war fictions.  I loved the location descriptions and choices; you start in North American and just keep going east.  This is a smart, fun book that gives the reader a great story and a lot of interesting historical facts about Russia.  This really is a book that has two - three very well developed and written plot twists that makes you stay on your toes.  I have reread the book and it is something how well he places the road signs.  This is a great book; unfortunately he was not able to keep up this form into his next.	2002-04-08
1588295:US	41012519	R2YUQAKZ7H0LAT	0671637274	711039971	Night of the Fox	Books	3	16	19	N	N	The Author Could Do More	If you have read some of the authors books in the past you have a good idea of what you are going to get.   An easy to read and understandable book that is full of action.   Because of this I am starting to stay away from his books because I am looking for books with a little more depth.  With that said I did fall back into my old habits and read this after picking it up at a sale.  He really delivers on a fast paced action book and it seams like he is trying to expand some and use more main characters.   For a Higgins book this is pretty good, I am still giving it a bit of a knock because I think with as much experience as the author has he could give us more character development.	2002-04-08
1588298:US	41012519	RAEWVUB6JQ68N	0671651250	230555028	Panic of '89 CST	Books	1	0	4	N	N	Drop the Book and Run	The only panic I felt was how to put he book down fast enough.   I should not try and read these types of books because I never seem to really enjoy them, but this book just did not turn me on.   It was like the author took the characters from Wall Street and gave them narcotics.   It just was a slow book.	2002-04-08
1588339:US	41012519	R1G6C3S8KABNL8	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	4	2	3	N	N	One of the Better Ones	I rather enjoyed this book.   The author does a good job telling a story that is rather depressing and scary.  Given the large amount of book in this class, his one stands out becuase of the writing.   He have a very good flow through out the book and he is a master at describing the location and people involved.   If you are to read a true crime book this is one of he better ones out there.	2002-04-08
1588363:US	41012519	R1I9RWRU7CZ5XT	0451156617	285279472	Red Snow	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Story	I was a little put off by some of what I am assuming is the translation errors.  Other then that the book was interesting, teaching me about a part of the world and people I did not know much about.   I was also interested to see a Russian perspective of the pipeline that the Reagan administration tried so hard to stop in real life.  The characters are not the stereotypical you would think, but that is probably due to the nationality of the author.  This is a good little book that delivers good entertainment.  The story line, which is used a lot in American books, is placed in a new location so that it comes off as being a unique thriller.	2002-04-08
1588387:US	41012519	R3HTCIVM06CZL9	0380703440	50285555	The Green Train	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Characters	This is a fun book.  I though it was going to turn out a bit differently.   There is a very well done escape part of the story where a character needs to run for a period of 10 miles, when I used to run I would think of some of the comments made by the characters.  Corny - maybe but the writing really made the people like your friends and family.   I think this is the strength of the book, you really get to know both people on each side - it is just not the stock American and the big bad east block grunting guard.  The book is a good find and will keep your interest.	2002-04-08
1588409:US	41012519	R1DTAU7HM0H43H	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	4	N	N	One of the Best	What can I say that has not already been said.   The most telling thing for me is that absolutely everybody I have talked to about this book has loved it, not one dissenting vote in he bunch.  One of the few you can read over and over and get something new out of it as your life progresses and changes.	2002-04-08
1588418:US	41012519	R31B7K2UC6561L	0671519816	129533604	Inca Gold (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good Action	This was the first book by this author that I have read and I may not be reading any more.  A fried of mine suggested I read it.  The book was enjoyable enough, lots of action and a very interesting location with good detail.   I guess I was just looking for a little deeper type of book.  This is one of those action books that does not take a lot of effort to read and keeps your attention all the way through.   All and all an above average book.	2002-04-08
1588423:US	41012519	R39789RL4D1S39	0671558137	661301606	Moscow Rules	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An Effortless Read	Great book, it is not often that an author can come up with such a comprehensive book as this on his first try.  This had it all, a great story, good characters, wonderful action and a quick pace.  This is an exciting book.   It really made me happy reading the book; it was like a great game of treasure hunt where you find everything.  Each time I was ready for a plot twist, action of drama it was there.   The characters just explode in your memory - you do not get them out of your head.  Overall great effort.	2002-04-08
1588433:US	41012519	R2BT8ZDDMW64NX	0440202116	728357635	The Berkut	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Story Made Believable	Great book!   I have read a number of books about this time period of the war and this is a new story.   I just could not wait to get to the next page.   Great characters and a really well through out story.  This is a very well done what if story that mixes in a good deal of facts.  The hard part about books like this is that they take a very well known hard and fast fact and change it for the story line.   This author pulls it off.   I read the next book he put out and this is the better of the two.	2002-04-08
1588437:US	41012519	R2V04H5JJQNJIK	0394548493	634453794	The Endless Game	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Soild Effort	Not a bad little page-turner.  I liked the story line; it has been done before, but not this well.  The book sneaks up on you and really [stinks] you in.   You find your self almost hurrying to the next page because the suspense builds through to the end of the book.   Very good characters with competent development and well thought out roles within the story.   I would have liked a bit more detail on the locations.  Overall a good book from the period.	2002-04-08
1588514:US	41012519	R6M19G007K064	0688043992	417959877	The Third Friday: A Novel of Suspense	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Keep Looking	I would start this book on the sixth Friday of the month.   Here is another \\"business thriller\\" that is lost in the real business world and far from a thriller.   The problem I had with the book is that the author determined a story and he fit all the facts to it - sure this is the way one writes a book, but in this case what was taking place would never happen in a real business.   With this being the case it is very hard to believe the book.	2002-04-08
1588541:US	41012519	R1X6S17F0010LB	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Great Start to His Career	Overall this is the first tour de force for Clancy.  He really stated he could map out a large, detailed story and bring it down to the characters in the book.   He always does a great job of running a number of sub plots through out the whole book and meeting them up at the end.  That is always one of the fun things with one of his books, trying to determine ahead of time how the richly described characters are going to play off of one another for a great climax.  The only reason I am not going to give this 5 is that I thought the end of the conflict was rushed.	2002-04-08
1588568:US	41012519	RY3RY5ZFQ7RNS	0553052950	594940491	Target of Opportunity	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Below Average	This is a workman like effort by the author.  The story, spy vs. spy in Europe, is not a new one and you will not find anything memorable here.   Overall the book is average and there are much better books out there.	2002-04-08
1588614:US	41012519	RYXUH6OVL1CN6	0877956871	981329299	Cold Sea Rising	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Did Not Work	I picked the book up because I wanted to see if the author could pull this story off in a believable way.   I think he missed the mark, at least with me.  The characters where out of a bad 1950's B movie and this lack of character depth plus the far fetched story did not get enough credibility with me.   There are many other books out there that a much better, reread a Clancy if you can find nothing else.	2002-04-08
1588619:US	41012519	R1B8YG7IQH0Z9H	0517558130	626592731	Pursuit	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Interesting New Story	This was a cool story.  We have all read a bakers dozen World War Two historical fiction books based in Europe, many even with this type of spy vs. spy hunter chase, but this is the first time I have seen this story line.   This is great because I feel like I got a history lesson about what it was like back home during the war.  This author's ability to capture details really comes to the forefront in describing what it was like in the states.   This is a good book and can be picked up for a song used.   It is worth the time.	2002-04-08
1588627:US	41012519	RPT4049T9U1PX	0345310799	242457929	Stallion Gate	Books	2	8	17	N	N	No Action	I would stick with the Gorky Park series, which is really this author's strong suit.  This book just did not get moving and after 250 pages I gave up.  I just did not care what happened to either the characters or in the story as a whole.	2002-04-08
1588640:US	41012519	R3QXSYK8KDD61D	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Just an All Around Great Book	Another one of those books that has been talked about by every critic out there so I probably can not add that much more.    I can say that I usually read more action or non fiction yet this book is and will be one of my favorites.   It is one of the very few books that stirred emotions in me.  It is a book that demands to read many times.	2002-04-08
1588749:US	41012519	R1P8FTE8J1LT1Y	0425110427	427090647	Team Yankee	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Action Only	The book provides you with one thing - combat action.   If you are looking for a Clancy type lead up and details do not look here, but if you are looking for raw action then this is it.   It is kind of like watching a Chuck Norris movie, you know it is not going to win any awards or make you think too much, but it is fun and you love it when the bad guys gets it.	2002-04-08
1588804:US	41012519	R2FKEHEM7VD002	0451163508	899583062	Lie Down with Lions (Signet)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	I Had High Expectations	I think he has put out much better books and this one was the first to really disappoint me.   The book is an average book, but I had just read Pillars of the Earth so this one was a let down.   The story was interesting and could have been one of the first major attempts to take on the Afghan War via fiction.  The staples of a Follett book are there, a great cast that you get to know, a well thought out story etc, I just came into the book expecting too much.  He does spend a great deal of time on the issue of how women are treated in Afghanistan and I believe that is why there is a strong woman in the book to even more draw your attention to it.   When I read the book it did not strike me much, but with the latest events I skimmed the book and picked up on it.	2002-04-08
1588814:US	41012519	RV57J2JEDZM99	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Always A Fun Read	This is one of his earlier works and it really clips along.   You really get an inside view of the IRA terrorist mind.  He always does a great job of running a number of sub plots through out the whole book and meeting them up at the end.  That is always one of the fun things with one of his books, trying to determine ahead of time how the richly described characters are going to play off of one another for a great climax.  The details are also there, but I do understand that not everybody likes the amount of detail he adds - if you don't then you could think the book slow.   Overall a good book, not his best but above average.	2002-04-08
1588855:US	41012519	R1MEF1RVA38JU5	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fun Book	This is just an all around fun story.   Not as dark and creepy as many of his books.   It is a good old knights tail with the dragon.   Good story, lots of action, enough descriptions to really let you see the story.   A good effort.	2002-04-08
1588868:US	41012519	R27IPV1PR1U3JL	1885283083	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors (Adventure Library)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Moving	Great book, the author does a wonderful job.   This book moves along and is never dull.   Many times with type of book the big event that start out the book is about the best part of it and the rest of the book kinda dies after it, but not this one.   The story keep going and you want to keep reading.   I would put this up there with Into Thin Air and above The Perfect Storm.    It is much better then the movie.	2002-04-08
1588900:US	41012519	R2JHGRZ94HYBW6	0752805800	817912842	In the Name of the Father	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Interesting New Story	This is a very solid effort by the author.  It gave me a bit of a chill during a few parts. This is an interesting story line.  I did not think it would work as well as it did.  After all the Vatican is not really known for this type of activity.   Never less, the author pulled it off.   I think the excellent work on the story line did it for me.   There were no cheap, convenient moves here.   You believe each twist and turn would \\"of course\\" be there.   The cast of characters is a good one with some memorable lines and personality traits.   A fun book that moves fast.	2002-04-08
1588908:US	41012519	R2D2KFTTH5150I	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	4	0	1	N	N	More Fun Then You Would Think	I found myself laughing more then I thought I would with this book.   Buy it becuase you want to see humor in a crazy situation.	2002-04-08
1588922:US	41012519	RGVZS8PNNC0D0	055305161X	64694662	The Blind Run	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Too Light	Some of his other work is much better.  This book seams rushed, almost like the author did not want to take the time to really develop either the story or the characters.   Because of the light development it does not hold your attention.   I just did not believe the characters.  I kept waiting for it to get better which is why I toughed it out to the end, but I was disappointed overall.	2002-04-08
1588928:US	41012519	R3QCBSCRPDW7ZT	0451145577	222810062	The Seventh Secret (Signet)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Above Average Book	I have read a number of historical fiction books about the end of the war and this is one of the better one.   I liked the story line; it is believable once you get into the book.  The author spent some time developing the plot and because of that you start to believe it.  An interesting group of main characters fills out the book so that the pages really fly past you.   This is a good effort by this author.   If you liked this then I would suggest you look at Fatherland by Robert Harris.	2002-04-08
1588956:US	41012519	RU1K6ADVFZOIU	055358085X	658273796	The Burning Plain	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I had no idea who this author was before I pick up this book off the sale rack.   Although this book was ok, I do not think I will read another of his works.  I am not a big fan of this type of neither mystery nor reading books with a focus of social issue ground breaking.	2002-04-07
1588957:US	41012519	R1QOP559S3UFCK	0312910401	882154464	Blowout!	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Drop the Book and Run	I would not recommend this book; I really could not find anything worth the time it took to read it.  I only got half way through it and that was about 100 pages too much.  There are too many good books out there.	2002-04-07
1588959:US	41012519	R14EM4NA3KEWFH	0679413847	542490139	The Outlaw Bank: A Wild Ride into the Secret Heart of BCCI	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Average	Not a bad report of what took place although the topic could be a bit dry for the average reader.   The dust jacket tries to make the book out to be a bit sexier then it really is.   The authors do a good job or moving the story along but I did expect more from Beaty.  I think what is interesting is some of the same move movement issues covered within the book are now coming to the forefront with the current crack down on terrorists.   If you are interested in the topic of international banking then this book will be interesting.	2002-04-07
1588979:US	41012519	R3G0RX72X7G2P8	006092456X	580870102	High Rise: How 1,000 Men and Women Worked Around the Clock for Five Years and Lost $200 Million Building a Skyscraper	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Interesting	This book really delivers with an interesting story.   On the face of it I was not that excited to pick up a book about the construction of a building and the finance side but this book made it interesting.  The whole process from the buying of the land, getting financing, and the construction are told very well by the author.   He does a good job of making sure the reader keeps in tune with the issues and does not let you get lost in finance speak.  You really come away from the book understanding the process and the people that were involved.   It is also a kick to see the building in real life as I did on a trip to NYC last summer.   This book is well put together and keeps the reader interested through out.   I would recommend this book to anyone that has an interest in how building is built today.	2002-04-07
1588985:US	41012519	RAIK77AWM0SG1	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Above Average Book	I thought some of this authors earlier works were better then this book.   Maybe it is my issue, as I prefer either historical fiction or espionage better than other fiction types.  Overall I think the author is a good one and will read each book he puts out.   This book was entertaining, had a good story line and lots of character development.   It just did not seem to keep a good pace for me, not like his other books.   Overall the book is above average, but his other works were better.   If you have read this book then you are in for a treat with your next experience with him.	2002-04-07
1588999:US	41012519	R1V97X1NNP99DQ	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun Book	The book was better then the movie even without the visuals you get on the big screen.  In my opinion this is really this authors best area, action packed fiction.  You always get a good book from this author and he delivered with this one.  I know the book is the next in line and written just to get a new movie out, but the book is an old fashion page-turner.  If you are looking for fiction to keep your mind of heavy topics then this book is a good one to start with.  It is light, easy to read and moves fast.  The story is developed and fun.  This guy does not write heavy, Noble Prize worthy work, just fast passed fun.	2002-04-07
1589019:US	41012519	R3W0GIURXJJ86Q	0345420438	352579083	The Tailor of Panama	Books	1	3	10	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I have to admit that I had a negative view of this author before I started reading the book, but because of his reputation and the good reviews I thought I would give him another chance.  I don't know what it is but I just cannot get into one of his books.   I think they move very slow and are just not peppy.   Maybe I just have a short attention span, but I need more pep in a book then this author delivers.  I did enjoy the movie (I keep giving him chances), but the books put me to sleep.   I actually thought the overall story line was an interesting new twist to the cold war era spy story but I just could not keep turning the pages on this one.	2002-04-07
1589026:US	41012519	RETP5G8Y99TD0	044022313X	399753192	Black Light (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Fast Paced	Stephan Hunter is at the top of his form with this book and series.   The book starts off fast and just keeps going.   Lots of interesting details and a good story drive the book.   There is always the interesting character of the story lead for you to fall back on and become comfortable with.  This is a very smart book, the pieces fit together and you never think the author is forcing the items - they work like you are being told a true story.  I have always been surprised that this author has not become a bigger name.   This is a quality book that you will be glad you invested the time to explore.	2002-04-07
1589061:US	41012519	R3AQQ1LPKSGVHH	0525248803	52835193	Winter of Fire: The Abduction of General Dozier and the Downfall of the Red Brigades	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Average	This was an interesting story, which I did not know a lot about.   With more terrorism focus in the media today and the troubles in the Middle East a situation like this could come up again.   I also liked the detail of this particular terrorist group, which I think is no longer active.   Overall the book was solidly written but not a fast paced page-turner.   If you are interested in the time frame or particular event then it is worth reading.	2002-04-07
1589068:US	41012519	R166TZM6I6OZVX	0891414029	719530455	The Gods of War: Memoir of a German Soldier	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Only for the WW 2 Junky	This was a somewhat interesting book from a different point of view then we usually get in by American or English authors works.  The details are interesting and not usually reported.  I think the book could have benefited from either better editing or a straight chronological method in presenting the story.  I also know that when books are translated you usually miss out on some of the more subtle points the author was trying to make and I find the writing is usual a bit more wooden as you have with this transcript.  For me personally I would have liked more detail of when he was a soldier and less about the post war trip to France.   It was probably the only politically correct way to publish the work, but I felt that it was experiences that did not help the book.   If you read a lot on World War Two then this is an interesting view into the German solder.  If you are a casual reader then I would look a little further.	2002-04-07
1589119:US	41012519	RG3OGQNDGH4NH	1893122131	55472400	Grounded: Frank Lorenzo and the Destruction of Eastern Airlines	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Average Effort	This is a study in an ego taken over.  I view is that the games he played could almost be criminal.  I would have liked more information for the company as the author does seem to set out to make Frank be the bad guy.   I would also have liked more details on the business end of the airline industry.  I thought the writing was above average, he moved the story along through some topics that could be considered dull, union negotiations etc.  All and all not a bad book and if you find the airline industry interesting then you should read this book.	2002-04-07
1589128:US	41012519	R1K0IUPU53970J	0824517180	425028100	The Spirit of Catholicism (Milestones in Catholic Theology)	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Good First Step	I picked up a copy of the original 1935 version of this book and gave it a chance.  This is not an area that I normally read so at first I did not know what to expect.  I am also not an overly religious person so I do not have a large stock of other books to compare it to.  I found that the book was well written and easy to move through.  I was concerned it would be a little high handed, but it was not.  It was full of information that was beneficial.  You certainly gain a positive view of the church from the book and it has spurned me on to look for more titles on the subject.  If you are like me, a first time reader in the area this was a good way to start.	2002-04-07
1589130:US	41012519	R19DX6CX87VTJD	0440226473	652185916	Hijacked	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Really Good Book	This book really reads fast, the only thing that slowed me down was that I kept telling my wife bits from the pages.   When the attack took place the author does a great job of making you see the full event?  I do not even remember hearing much about this in the past but here are all the facts.   It really makes the hardened cockpit doors look like a long overdue idea.  Sometimes with airline books you get a lot of pilot speak that is hard to understand but not here - the author does a great job of explaining everything, almost like if he were with you in the living room while you read.  You also really get to feel for the victims of this madman.   You do not have to be interested in airlines to get a lot out of this book; it is just an overall great read.	2002-04-07
1589131:US	41012519	R1J3VX7BW8MIZ4	0517453312	385971283	Delta Star	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Fast Read	This is no dud, stop looking in the bookstore when you see this title and pick it up.  This book moves at the same pace as a cop car running hot.  It really is a good read with a lot of inventive characters and situations.  There are a lot of police novels out there but this is defiantly one of the top ten percent.   You will like the book from the moment you start reading.	2002-04-07
1589143:US	41012519	R2TGNMGA4VFWNC	0060973269	567450351	The Fall of the House of Hutton	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not Very Well Written	This was an average work for this topic range.   The writing was not as peppy as most people need to keep this subject matter moving.   If you are really interested in this particular issue then I would suggest this book, if you are looking for better business driven books then I would suggest Den of Thief's or Barbarians at the Gate.	2002-04-07
1589215:US	41012519	R173CS7NOTCNB7	0330250752	746403289	Day Before Sunrise	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very Entertaining Story	This book turned out much better then I thought it would.   I have read a number of books about the last days of World War Two in Berlin and this book captures that same feel.   I thought the author does a good job in describing the atmosphere to the point that I could feel the tension and depression.   The story is a good one with a solid plot.   This book reads well with economic time successfully spent on character development.   If you are interested in this period of time this is a very good fiction book that covers it.	2002-04-07
1589226:US	41012519	R16L0O59922Q84	0385027591	821995681	Force 10 From Navarone	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Average	I thought the original was a better book, this book seems to me to leaven on the first one too much.  Overall it is a fine effort from the author, it keeps up a good pace and the facts are correct.  If I had it over again I probably would have not read it and moved on to something else.	2002-04-07
1589250:US	41012519	R3A0O9OK4ZCMYP	0553579010	285809919	Spares	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Interesting Story	I normally do not read this type (SF) of book so I did not know what to expect going in. In reading it I found that the plot developed and worked well. I believed the characters as they were written and thought they worked well in the book. There was a lot going on - main sub plots, but that added to the book, because if I would have been completely focused on the main plot I may not have bought into it as much. This book is geared to the mass market, it is not a high prose work that is destined for awards and top ten lists. It is imaginative fiction that takes to reader into a story, which is why you buy the book.	2002-04-07
1589253:US	41012519	R1AMDHFE3JD2S	051753925X	592551236	Spiderweb	Books	2	0	9	N	N	Less Then Average	There are two many good books out there that cover this topic.  This one is average and unless you own it I would not pick it up.	2002-04-07
1589259:US	41012519	R2CQWE3BA89Q08	0892960817	168570126	Cronus	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Drop the Book and Run	This book did nothing for me.  It seamed like a cookie cutter book some editor put together from the leftovers of better authors.	2002-04-07
1589268:US	41012519	R12YYC3KJAM5ED	038500219X	676994063	The Roads of Earth	Books	2	1	7	N	N	Dated Book	This book is dated and I do not think it has improved with time.   It is the second book from the author I tried and I could not get through this one.   I just did not like the story, it took too long is going anywhere so by page 50 I was starting to get disappointed which I never recovered from.	2002-04-07
1589279:US	41012519	R3METZ2GW9YYIK	0380973545	730540102	Letters from a Nut	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very Funny	This is a light, funny book that anyone can pick up and get humor out of.  Everyone from family members to friends has thought the book funny.  It is a novel concept, one that is so simple that all of us wonder why we did not think of it.  Read the book, it will make you feel better.	2002-04-07
1589282:US	41012519	R1P31YDDZVAI9	0380721910	426763814	Crossing by Night	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Average	This was not the blockbuster action book I was looking for.  It is just another in the crowed field of World War Two historical fiction.  With so many books out there this one just does not rise to the top of the class.  I do questions some of the proposed facts, that they may be closer to the author's imagination.  Don't get me wrong; the story was ok and different from the normal in the class.  The writing was good and the author does keep the book moving for the most part.  It just did not grab the reader.	2002-04-07
1589288:US	41012519	R1ZL9S405LKACD	0345318099	95894127	SS-GB	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting Story	This was an interesting story.  I have read a large number of World War Two historical fictions and this is the first time I have come across this topic.  The detective is a good character, sure there are a lot of stereotypes with him but we all expect that and the author uses them to his advantage.  The ending was a bit fast; a few more pages would have done the book justice.  Overall a good effort that should not take you too much time to read.  If you are a fan of this author then you defiantly should read the book	2002-04-07
1589308:US	41012519	R3USUO8KWK5O4F	0440221870	642924940	The Master Sniper	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Not His Best But Good All The Same	I will always give this author the benefit of the doubt and pick up his work.  This work is good and he does a good job in an area he is not normal in, World War Two.  As always with him you get a lot of detail and a patience he always seems to give to his main shooter comes through in the writing.   The character set is interesting, he stated away from too many of the stereotypes.  He always has a good amount of action and this book comes through in that regard.   This was not his best work but it is still very good.	2002-04-07
1589350:US	41012519	RJPQQX90F8A30	0671708651	910806669	Typhoon	Books	2	5	9	N	N	A Disapointment	This was a disappointment for me.   I thought he plot was not very well thought out, the story not very exciting, and the writing stiff and wooden.   Maybe it is just me, but I judge this type of book by The Hunt For Red October and this was nowhere near that class.  It had all the standard submarine descriptions and speech, but not much more in my opinion.  I just did not have to guess where the story was going.  On the positive side the book does provide some interesting facts about USSR boats and the realistic use of USSR and USA tactics in the action scenes	2002-04-07
1589355:US	41012519	RLSV3OV8XLP18	0385232098	412360733	Eclipse	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Too Slow For Me	Given some of the other books this author has put out, I had high hopes for this one.   Unfortunately those hopes were not filled.   I felt that the story line was ok but the good just did not get up and go.   It kept dragging along and I kept waiting for something to happen to get it moving.   The author does an average job in making the text easy to follow, but it was just a slow book.	2002-04-07
1589398:US	41012519	R2TK44SVRFLM18	0451124685	611252317	Touch the Devil	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast Paced	With a Jack Higgins book you always get a fast paced, easy to read book.   He always gets the correct mix of historical facts and a new story line to make his books some of the best of the class.   The thing with Higgins is that he probably is not going to go down in history as one of the best writers ever, but the stories are so good with enough action to make you lose track of time.  You have fun reading this book and I bet that if this is the first of his books you read you will start to hunt down other works of his.  This book is worth the time.	2002-04-07
1589404:US	41012519	R1G95LY4F1YKCE	1559722371	364431368	The Spoils of World War II: The American Military's Role in the Stealing of Europe's Treasures	Books	4	9	11	N	N	I Thought We Were The Good Guys	Wow, this was a very troubling book.  The stories of solders stealing wedding bands and gold teeth fillings are very painful.  I thought we were the good guys. I was always taught the stealing was the work of the Nazis and Russians.  I found the book well researched and documented.  The book is put together in a good order and is easy to follow.  If you are interested in World War Two then this is an interesting and very disappointing view of the American solder.	2002-04-07
1589405:US	41012519	RWW1AL4AJNN0B	081288163X	627410416	The Assassins	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not Much Action	I thought there was going to more action with this book based on the title.  That was not the case; there is more of an overall story that takes the full length of the book to develop.  The story is put together very well and the characters are great.  It just did not move fast enough for me.  If you like the pace and style of his movies, then you will like this book.	2002-04-07
1589409:US	41012519	R1K7USPED1XAT7	0451163494	464602444	The Key to Rebecca	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Must Have	This is one of the top ten for any self respecting World War Two Fiction fan.  He was really at the top of his game during this periods and the subject matter is great.  The story is very well put together with no down time at all; you just keep moving forward and a good pace.  The characters are all interesting and developed with the right amount of detail.  I also really liked the back ground info with was historically correct and the environment he describes.  You really can image the sand.  This is a great work that still stands up.  You will enjoy every minute of reading it.	2002-04-07
1589471:US	41012519	R3PWK76RY845CK	0440235332	157167430	The Day Diana Died	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable Book	My wife first picked up this book and was giving me bits of info as she read it.  Well I got interested in the details so I read it after she completed it.   I would never have bought this book on my own but I must say that I really enjoyed it.   I think because there was so much news coverage that I really liked learning more of the details that did not always come out in the coverage.  My wife said that there was not too much new in this book, but for me there really was, as I have not followed the story as closely as my wife.   What you have here is all the facts put together in one book that is an easy to read review.   I would recommend it if you are interested in the topic.	2002-04-07
1589491:US	41012519	R1HBS34DWYL9MF	0892364769	587200444	The J. Paul Getty Museum and Its Collections: A Museum for the New Century	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Just For Looks	After going to the Museum and reading this book I was struck by how much the fame here is driven by the beautiful building, wonderful location, and the famous benefactors name, and not really the art works that are traditionally the centerpiece of an art museum.   Ok there are some very nice pieces here, but just not that many.   When purposing a museum book I do so to learn more about the particular art and here the book did an antiquate job, but a lot of page space was taken up with how they got the art.  Overall as a coffee table book it is not bad looking, but scratch the surface and it starts to disappoint.	2002-04-07
1589493:US	41012519	R3A17HMR5J0Y33	0883310627	801859768	White Flags of Surrender	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting View	As much as I have read about World War Two I find that I am not presented with a new topic or take on a particular event that often.  That was not the case in this book.   The author gives the reader with a new look at the war from the point of view of the average German citizen.  It is very interesting to see that not everybody in the country was a by the numbers Nazi, flowing every utterance of Hitler.  This is a very interesting book from the point of view of the authors life in German.  It is also the view we normal do not have as most work in covering the citizens effect by the war is either on the ones being overrun by the Germans or the ones being placed in camps.  If you read a lot about World War 2 then you should read this book.  I think it is also interesting for the point of view that a lot of the emotion expressed from the citizens point of view concerning invading armys is probably relevant regardless of the vanquished.	2002-04-07
1589523:US	41012519	R3E1PXHV3PG9XU	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Work	This book is great, the best out of the series.  You know it is good because of all the other books that claim to be just like it.   This was really the first book that I believed the dark disgruntled cop roll, he really sells it well.   I like the plot twists and the pace.  There is also a lot of time dealing with life in the USSR, which is great background.   This is really a good book and much better then the movie.  Once you read this you will search out the rest in the series.	2002-04-07
1589526:US	41012519	R37GPTBTPG5RWU	0760716986	436424377	Warfare and the Third Reich (Classic conflicts)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not for the Beginner	This book is a bit of a heavy history more geared for academic study then edge of your seat page-turner.  As with any book of this size there are always bound to be interesting bits of information, and this book does deliver that.  There are a number of details on army group makeup, command structure and tactics as well as a good review of German Army campaign citations and medals.  If you are interested in the topic then this is a good book to read, if you are a new comer to this field then this is not the first book to pick up.	2002-04-07
1589534:US	41012519	R251IS1N16VVDS	0394402677	138277602	The Boys from Brazil	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Overall Good Book	In the area of World War Two, Hitler historical fiction this is an interesting story.   The author created a plot that is getting close to possible with today's technology.   A lot of the historical facts introduced in the book are accurate and the author uses these facts to build a complete story.  From a wiring point of view the book is above average, but not an edge of your seat thriller.  The story is complete, the plot is a good one and there is adequate character development.  It is a good book that is worth investing the time.	2002-04-07
1589549:US	41012519	R2N9089MEUZUI3	0745166059	592468774	The Defector	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Book ffom a Good Author	I really enjoyed this book.  I know the author has been around for some time but this is the first work of hers I have read.   The plot was very good and she really took time to develop the characters.  The book keeps a good steady pace throughout.  If you are looking for an old cold war spy thriller then this will fit the bill.	2002-04-07
1589553:US	41012519	R226J0QCRTMA4R	0399104194	581425441	Horse Under Water	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Does Not Hold Up to The Passage of Time	This is a fairly old book and it does not hold up well to the passage of time.   I would suggest you move one to another book unless the particular plot is something you are really interested in or you want to cover all of the authors work.   I would say that the book is as well written as most of his other work, but that characters and plot do not get as much development as his later efforts.	2002-04-07
1589596:US	41012519	R396FFAGQ3ERYZ	0060995068	183009402	Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Very Good Book	This book really makes one shiver.  I have read a number of books on the holocaust and World War 2 and this book absolute is the rawest of the books covering the genocide.   That is not to say the book had a blow by blow account of the methods of killing, but just the history of this group of solders and the off handed way the mass killing was described.  The people doing this killing were just normal guys, not unlike friends, family or myself.  That is what was so disturbing to me.  It is much easier to think that the mass killing was done by some group of homicidal maniacs let out of the asylum and given guns that that is not the case.  I do not think I can recommend this book enough; it really gives you a feel for the tremendous crime that took place.  You will not be able to stop reading the book until you have completed it.	2002-04-07
1589600:US	41012519	R1Y5SJXX8E9S1M	0345314980	114136396	Berlin Game (Bernard Samson, Book 1)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Solid Job by Author	This author always does a good job with the spy novel.  This is a solid effort on his part but there really is nothing that new here.  If you like the type of book and the author then this is a good place to start.   Even if you are not a big fan of his this is a very solid effort.   At the time this might have been more inventive but the years have given us many books with this theme.	2002-04-07
1589625:US	41012519	R1ZQPTTQZXNLX2	1566191793	827192674	Pierre-Auguste Renoir	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beautiful Art Work	This is a beautiful book, but that's what you expect with an art inspired coffee table book.  The writing is done so that the casual observer of impressionist art can come away with a better understanding of the subject matter.  Every time I look through this book I come away pleases but that is more a function of the artwork documented then the authors work.	2002-04-07
1589627:US	41012519	R1CLLORC3VJXE4	1558594779	792068433	Treasures of the Louvre (Tiny Folio)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Average Effort	This is a light coffee table book that provides a kind of greatest hits list of the collection.   A collection that is so big no one single book would really do it justice.   Overall I think this book does a fine job at its purpose, which is to provide you a little history and meaning on some selected works.   This book is almost akin to a travel memento picture book.  The book for me reminds me to always stop by the Museum when I am in Paris	2002-04-07
1589632:US	41012519	R21WLRN0YGUVHX	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Moves Fast	A great job by the author.   I am finding that I enjoy this period of his fiction-writing better then the newer stuff with my favorite character Jack Ryan the president.  As always there is a great deal of detail that does as much to teach you about the weapons used and groups of people involved.   I know that a few of my friends do not always appreciate the large amount of lead in time to the main event that Clancy always uses in his work, but for me that is actually one of the drawing points.  Given the current world situation post 9/11 a book like this does cause some concern.   I would be surprised if it is not made into a movie.   If you like Clancy fiction then you will enjoy this book.	2002-04-07
1589633:US	41012519	R57WZYW0F928W	1556113137	714633793	Endgame in Berlin	Books	4	2	2	N	N	New Idea	You really think this is going on now given the old spy vs. spy, east vs. west game is over.  This may be pulled from CIA case files for all we know.   The book has a new twist on the old favorite espionage thriller.  The author does a very good job of making it believable.  The story keeps moving though out the book.  You really get to know the main characters of the book and you also get a good feel for Berlin.   The book is not bad and is worth the time.	2002-04-07
1589671:US	41012519	RHSA66B3EEA3K	067144266X	472547240	Spectrum	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Disappointing	How can such a good author of non- fiction come up with this?   I found the book dull, contrived and slow.   I got to about page 200 and had to stop.	2002-04-07
1589708:US	41012519	R5JLKCCFJZN1W	0440221862	83444173	The Second Saladin	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Major Let Down	I must say I was disappointed by this book.   I will always pick his work up but this one just did not have the punch I have come to expect.   I give him credit, he does try to venture out and do new things but this one did not work.   I would not spend too much time on this one and move to some of this other work.	2002-04-07
1589722:US	41012519	R2QE5NPVWXI1DA	0553251139	159869687	The Fourth Protocol	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Up All Night	Another great book, I think he is the master of the spy vs. spy book.   This was heads and tails above the movie.  Great characters, I really disliked the antagonist.  Good, smart story that still plays today.  He pulls the rug out from under you a number of times so you cannot predict the outcome.   I have never gone wrong with this author.	2002-04-07
1589743:US	41012519	R3ED7VZDBB1FM9	0671000322	740561500	The VALHALLA EXCHANGE	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Above Average Book	I have always liked this author; I can always count on him for a good story.  This book came through for me although it was not one of his best, I think this was the period of time when we used another name and was really pumping the books out.   There are other books that capture this period in time better and the plot was moving to the \\"no way\\" factor for me.  He did a good job with an interesting story	2002-04-07
1589752:US	41012519	R39E05WBG2K0GA	0553268465	549240349	The Dogs of War	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Above Average Book	I did not like this book as much as I have liked many of his other books.  Maybe I was excepting too much after The Day of the Jackal.  I guess the subject matter and location just did not turn me on.  I thought the story was very good idea, original.  The characters are as good as the author has done in the past.   There is a good amount of action and details that are interesting.   The story is strongly created and moved through the book.   I just was not that interested in the outcome but it was a good effort.	2002-04-07
1589757:US	41012519	R21X9KHVS6WZVJ	0060937750	98516654	The House of Gucci: A Sensational Story of Murder, Madness, Glamour, and Greed	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Not Just a Business Book	This book is a surprising fast paced book that reads more like an unauthorized tell all scandal book then one dealing with the business world.  It is just a fun book to read.  There is a good amount of history that does not take away from the story (as sometimes to much dull history can).  The author got the mix right.  It also gave me a lot of insight into the fashion world that I really was not looking for, but was interesting all the same.  Keep in mind that part of the focus of this book is the business that has been built up; it is not just details of the family.   A good effort by the author and one worth reading if you are interested in the topic.	2002-04-07
1589787:US	41012519	R3BOZI993GKOYQ	0451163516	37397932	The Man from St. Petersburg (Signet)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Solid Job by Author	This is not a bad effort from the author but his recent books have been better.  It sometimes seemed to me that the story line was moving away from the believable.  The story did move very quickly and you can stay interested in the book for many hours at a time.  The most fun I got out of the book was the descriptions of the time frame and the tradecraft used.  If you are interested in reading some of his earlier works then I would suggest Triple or his best work Pillars of the Earth.	2002-04-07
1589800:US	41012519	R15K5IB1P1OR7F	0671676164	758101119	TO CATCH A KING	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Solid Job by Author	I have always liked Jack Higgins.  This was another of his fast paced, easy to read stories.  You can always count on him for a good story.  I think this was the period of time when we used another name and was really pumping the books out.   The one thing you have to keep in mind when reading his books is that they are meant to forget about your problems and just get into the story.   He fills the books with a lot of good details and action but this is not Steinbeck.	2002-04-07
1589839:US	41012519	R1IR76CPVQWVGX	0671727737	553766376	The Eagle Has Landed	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Author, Great Story	I think this is the best book from the author and defiantly the best book of the series.  This is just a good all around book with a good story and a lot of interesting characters.   The pace of the book is also very pleasing, it just moves smoothly.   I would suggest anyone that is interested in the time frame to pick the book up.   You will be pleased you did.	2002-04-07
1589844:US	41012519	R1LWTH5LF8C2VP	0553266306	999720718	The Day of the Jackal	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Better Then Average	This is one of the author's better books.  The story and the plot are great, so much so they have been used in any number of other books and movies.  This is the original and the best.  Sure there are a lot of people to keep track of but that does not take away from homing in on the main characters and keeping them straight.  Overall the writing is good and the author spends a good deal of time on the main characters.  This is worth the time to read.	2002-04-07
1589850:US	41012519	R3MAK328TCF2EC	0515071366	709289047	Seven Minutes Past Midnight	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Keep Looking	Not really that good of a book, I found I was forcing myself through it and would have stopped half way except I did not have anything else to read.   To many other have done this and done it better.   Keep Looking.	2002-04-07
1589853:US	41012519	REKC3V9ILKR5J	0688092187	699590233	The Fourth World War: Diplomacy and Espionage in the Age of Terrorism	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Interesting Book	Very interesting book years ahead in talking about the troubles we now face.   I would assume this would be brought back out given the state of the war on terrorism.  Ok so he does not have a boatload of facts, but that was in 1992 - look at what has happened over the past 10 years.   He comments were right on.  There are lost of interesting stories from Africa to Europe and central Asia.   This book provides a look into the French intelligence agency that for me a new given that most books in the area deal with the CIA, MI5 or the KGB.  If you read this book you will be talking about it to your friends for weeks after you have finished it.  The book is written well and keeps moving, it does not get bogged down in \\"the French are the best\\" hyperbole.	2002-04-07
1589863:US	41012519	R32MUI28ZV9ONL	B00005WY62	35240810	The throne of Saturn; a novel of space and politics	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Dated Book	I liked the story outline on the dust jacket but once I got into it I was turned off.   The story was good and the space exploration facts were interesting.  It was the social commentary that I was not waning to get bogged down with.   I was looking for science fiction / action, not a George Will book.   Overall the writing is good and the author spends a good deal of time on the characters, some times too much time.  Overall this book just did not excite me and took too long to read.	2002-04-07
1589876:US	41012519	R3PFWWMLFWUNE	0553264907	977328985	The Devil's Alternative	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Great Author, Great Story	Another solid job by this author who I have always liked.  This was another of his fast paced, easy to read stories with a good long story.  I love the detail of the USSR government, you really feel like it in a non-fiction book at times.  He has always used a lot of good factual details to make his books solid.  Like the work of all good authors, you really grow to know the characters, like some and hate some - they have solid reasons for doing what they are doing in the book.  There is a lot going on but the way he writes it you do not have any problems following the action.   A great book that is well worth the time.	2002-04-07
1589904:US	41012519	RJPQVPW208DQY	0380733358	153919204	Eye of the Needle	Books	5	113	117	N	N	One of the Best of the Type	Ken Follett was probably the best of this type back in the 70's; I would even go so far as to say that was his best period outside of The Pillars of the Earth.   This book gives you a very good story that I found difficult to put down.  Follett is great at developing his characters; you really get a feel for them.   He also always gets the facts correct and is very generous with the historical items.   He also writes a book that does not talk down to the lowest common denominator of the audience.  This book is very good and one that should be read before many others of the same type.	2002-04-07
1589905:US	41012519	R2AHCF93J0LFI7	0553271989	424077500	The Odessa File	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Book	A very good old book that is still as interesting today as it probably was when it came out.   This author always seams to deliver a well thought out plot with a good amount of detail and short side stories that entertain and keep the story going.   The book is much better then the movie and I would suggest you read the book weather you have or have not watched it.  This book can really be called a suspense thriller and keeps your attention all the way to the end i.e. plot twist.  I actually think this is one of his better books.   I also read a good amount of World War 2 nonfiction and the facts presented in the book are dead on.  My only complaint would be that I wanted more.	2002-04-07
1589930:US	41012519	R2IHPZ9P50PSEV	0671900153	807545000	Gangland: How the FBI Broke the Mob	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Detail	I have always been a fan of true crime books dealing with the American mafia so I could be a bit biased in this review.  I really enjoyed this book.  It is a very interesting view of what took place with John Gotti.   It had a lot of detail about how the FBI worked with other law enforcement organizations, and the techniques they used to gather the evidence that turned John Gotti into a ward of the state.   This book moves fast and never gets bogged down in legalese.   Another positive with the book is the author is a reporter and not a FBI official, therefore the writing is better.  It is an interesting study of an important event in the American Mafia	2002-04-07
1589934:US	41012519	R1QPWNNC6DGFV7	0684825139	947218452	The KILLERS GAME	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fast Paced	I enjoyed reading this book.  This is a great story line that really is well put together.   There are no \\"yea right\\" parts in it where plot errors are made.  There is just a lot of action and movement in this book, a real guys book.   You can easy read it in a weekend.  Even though the main character is a hit man you like him and want him to win.  Ok, the book is not destine for the Steinbeck hall of fame, but it is a good story that keeps you tuned in.  There is even some humor thrown in.  You will not be sorry you invested the time in this one.	2002-04-07
1590001:US	41012519	R2HW0LGRMJSCYB	0312081669	400025146	Comrade Charlie	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not a Bad Story	A good one from the old cold war days of spy thrillers.  The author does a solid job with his writing and does keep the story moving.   I have noticed that the more books he puts out the less is getting edited away, and my opinion is that is close to including too much that will slow the stories down.   I would suggest The Blind Run from this author as one of his better works.  There are the prerequisites multiple plots and trouble main character you find in most books of this type.   All in all not a bad effort.	2002-04-07
1590003:US	41012519	R2HUF1P1M3OT0R	0553282824	383969009	Redeye	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Solid Mistery	This is another solid work by this author.   I kept interested through out the full book.  The plot is very well put together and you believe each twist and turn.   This author always writes an easy to read novel and this is no exception.   My favorite from him is Crux.	2002-04-07
1590035:US	41012519	R2S070PLN9FT6G	0380714728	589397435	War of the Raven	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Better Then Average	This was a good effort by this author.  I found the historical representation correct in the facts.   The plot was good and focused.   The story moves along and there are some characters that you have no problem visualizing.   This book does not break into anything new and is an above average entry into this type of story.   Overall a better then average book in a crowded field.	2002-04-07
1590048:US	41012519	RLX5P6JBE26M	0451120531	661740900	Fallback	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Did Not Hold My Attention	Not really worth the time.  The story was so confusing I think the author even lost track of it.	2002-04-07
1590067:US	41012519	R21AYUX67VTEVZ	0030177618	63200195	Storm Warning: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Did Not Hold My Attention	I have always liked this author; I can always count on him for a good story.  I was a little disappointed in this effort.  Maybe it is because of the high hopes I had after reading some of his other works, but this book just did not hold my attention.   He did a good job with an interesting story, one that I think he had to work more on due to it getting away from his standard fair.  The characters drive this book and are done well.   I guess I was not looking for a sea story and that is what this book is.	2002-04-07
1590068:US	41012519	R1RWN01U8FDUQ	0812920090	175416130	Bull's Eye: The Assassination and Life of Supergun Inventor Gerald Bull	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Very Interesting	This was a very good book.  I bought the book wanting to learn more about Iraq, but got a lot more.   The details of the efforts to launch satellites using a super gun was very interesting and the details of artillery gave me insights I did not have before.  I was very interested in the contacts he made, South Africa, Israel, China and Iraq and the fact that the US for the most part created him.   There are a good amount of facts that seem well put together.   The writing is good and there are a good amount of pictures that really help tell the story.   I think it is interesting to read this book and some of the other books about the Iraq process to gather WMD arms - the two would have fit together perfectly.  I would have liked the author to focus a bit more on what the purposes the Iraq's were going o use the super gun for.  If you are interested in these topics then this book is well worth the time.	2002-04-07
1590076:US	41012519	RU2CDJDYWN403	0395510643	676495450	Dark Star	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Rich Story	I read this book and wondered where was this author going?  You could not see all the plot turns; he kept me interested in the book the whole time.   This book was very rich in the atmosphere; you really could see the streets, cafes, and people on the street.   There are just so many details that it truly feels like you are watching the action as it unfolds.  This is not a fast by the numbers book, you have to be involved with the book but the pay off is a very good story that keeps you thinking about the characters and plot after you have put the book down each day.   I am happy to hold on to this one and reread it again.	2002-04-07
1590080:US	41012519	R190E3QOKUVVG	0792720571	98399939	Where Eagles Dare (Paragon Large Print)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good Book from a Good Author	This author makes his living on plot twists.   Just when you think you have it figured out there is a new course.  The story is a good one and very well told.   The author has his historical facts correct which is important in this type of book.  I would like more to a story, the editors in the 70's must have been paid per word they cut as it seams most books of that era are a little on the short side.   That aside this is a good yarn with a good story.	2002-04-07
1590097:US	41012519	R7GKP5BPUQ6ME	0451163540	849999685	Triple (Signet)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Best in His Class	I think this is the period of time when Ken Follett was probably at the top of his game.  This book comes close to The Pillars of the Earth.   This is a great story, similar to The Sum of All Fears just 15 years earlier and better action.   Follett has always been great at developing his characters and he does it again with this book.   And he always gets the facts correct; he must spend a good deal of time researching the topics.  This book moves very fast and has a number of twists, there is real suspense built up through out the book.  This book is one of the best of the class.	2002-04-07
1590107:US	41012519	R3AR7IRQBMLY67	0809469502	639643834	The SS (The Third Reich)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Good Series	I am a big fan of anything Time Life puts out on World War 2.  I found this whole series of books very interesting for the amount of detail, the layout and the overall look of the books.  This is the best place to start if you want to learn about World War 2.  They are very easy to read with a great deal of corresponding diagrams, maps and photos and really bring the words alive.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you need to get a copy of these books.	2002-04-07
1590111:US	41012519	R3BZ9PW7RQBZKG	0070251126	39592848	The Linz Tattoo	Books	1	1	3	N	N	I Got Borred	I had a hard time getting into this book.  I just felt like the plot was not moving forward and the writer, frankly, was boring me.   About page 200 I gave up.   The story sounded promising but the author did not put it together.	2002-04-07
1590124:US	41012519	R6XCWNL9ES8AC	055311820X	574851920	Firefox	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fast Paced	I enjoyed the book although I actually liked the movie better then the book, which rarely happens for me.  I just wanted more of the book, more character development, more detail on the spy tradecraft.  The story is great, the detail is there, and I just wanted maybe 50 more pages.   The book moves very fast and because it does not have volume it is easily a weekend book.   I would recommend the book; I just thought it needed more.	2002-04-07
1590166:US	41012519	R3NZTWXESTFP5N	0458969702	77762258	Hugh Hambleton, Spy: Thirty Years With the KGB	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Drop the Book and Run	You really need to be interested in the British intelligence agency to get a lot out of this book.   To this day I have no idea why I finished it (I was on a transatlantic flight with nothing else to read).   It really just is not that good, you would think the author could have done something more given the man spied for such a long time, but he did not.  There are just too many good books out there to spend the time with this book.	2002-04-06
1590181:US	41012519	R2Q99LFTMXH49A	0385153902	64939645	The KGB: The Eyes of Russia	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Outdated	There are more up to date and better-written accounts of the KGB.   At the time this probably was a good book, but time and the fall of the iron curtain has provided a flood a details.   This work is interesting for the die-hard reader who will want to compare the work with others of its time.  The book is well laid out and has a workman like style of writing.	2002-04-06
1590190:US	41012519	R2YGJEQJE5X7KR	0312198620	576324195	The Devil's Virtuosos: German Generals at War, 1940-5	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Average	I felt this book was a bit dry.  It did provide good overall details of some of the generals that made the German army successful, but I was looking for more.  This category of books tends to give you a better understanding of the men without having to read a full biography on each one.  This book delivers an overview of some of the men that made the Germany military successful.  It is a good first step if you are looking to increase your knowledge of the area but if it is the only book you plan to read on the topic there are a number of better books in print.	2002-04-06
1590239:US	41012519	R2VNJEBM0BS0K	031285451X	796410717	Wake Island: The Heroic Gallant Fight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good First Step	This is not a bad little book on the topic.  It does not have the detail of a Stephen Ambrose book, but the author does keep the story moving and before you know it you have completed the book.   This book provides the reader an enjoyable way to read about a battle that most have heard of but few know the details of.  There were a number of good personal stories of the \\"average Joe\\" slugging it out.  This is a good first step to learning about the combat experience in the Pacific. You will not regret this purchase.	2002-04-06
1590256:US	41012519	RVHMBAJWXQ78W	0140072187	527630151	Chickenhawk	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very Interesting	I thought the book was an interesting view of the world of the helicopter pilot but the dust jacket did sell it a bit much on the action side.  I enjoyed the details of the machines and the methods they were used.  The book is also written in a light method that is easy to read, the reader does not get bogged down in the alphabet soup of unit designations.  The school is also interesting; who would have ever thought that flying a helicopter is so difficult.  I did enjoy this book a good deal, it really moves fast.	2002-04-06
1590293:US	41012519	RH1F9WHROUH8U	0809469545	552149629	Storming to Power (The Third Reich)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good Series	I am a big fan of anything Time Life puts out on World War 2.  I found this whole series of books very interesting for the amount of detail, the layout and the overall look of the books.  This is the best place to start if you want to learn about World War 2.  They are very easy to read with a great deal of corresponding diagrams, maps and photos and really bring the words alive.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you need to get a copy of these books.	2002-04-06
1590306:US	41012519	RYYDJI7I0KTKD	0688067565	602777275	Danger-Heavy Goods: Driving the Toughest, Most Dangerous Roads in the World	Books	3	6	6	N	N	An Interesting World	I enjoyed this book more then I thought I would.   A book on OTR drives in Europe is normally not the type of book to keep one entertained for hours, but this one did.  The writing was very natural to read, very easy but not demeaning in its ease.   The world is one that is not known to me, both the trucking part and at the time, Europe.  The details did leave me wanting a bit more.  If you have the time this is a good way to pass it.	2002-04-06
1590332:US	41012519	R2RGVZKB5YFUVY	0440192013	441211767	The Hynek UFO Report	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Not Completely Sold	I am a UFO skeptic and was given this book as a bit of a joke.   Being curious I read it.  This book did not change my mind, although, it had some interesting unexplained incidents.  I would have liked more facts to overcome my skepticism, but then if there were more facts they would not be called \\"Unidentified\\".  Overall this was an interesting book and well written.  It just did not sell me on the topic, but in place of one landing in my front yard, I do not think there is a book that would.	2002-04-06
1590345:US	41012519	R1O6TJBIRRVA88	038517750X	722919491	America held hostage: The secret negotiations	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Not Bad	This is not a bad review of the crises.  There have been some new details that have come out sense this book was written, but overall I think it got the majority of the details correct.   The author is a good writer and the book has a smooth flow.   I would suggest that you also read the Gary Sick book if you are interested in the event.   I am also a military buff so I would have liked more detail on the failed rescue attempt, but there are a few books out there that cover this item.	2002-04-06
1590367:US	41012519	R1XALAH2Z2RY6I	055334532X	962655503	The War Against the Jews: 1933-1945	Books	5	35	40	N	N	A Good Discription of Why it Happened	This book provides a good detail of how the German leadership convinced itself that genocide was not only correct and legal, but a necessity for their survival.  I thought the book was going to be a description of one atrocity after another, but it provides the reader with more of the details of why it was happening.  Don't get me wrong, there is enough of the horror represented here.  I would have liked a larger review of all of the holocaust crimes across Europe, but there are limits to the size of any one book.  This book is a good start to find out why it happened.	2002-04-06
1590380:US	41012519	R3DJIH6DA3TEQD	0688103839	460190412	Hitler's Generals	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Good Overview	I enjoyed the personal details of the generals profiled; it tended to give you a better understanding of the men without having to read a full biography on each one.  I would have liked to see more of a comparison made with American generals just to better my understanding of the men.   I did come away from the book with a positive view of the generals highlighted, they were professional and competent and not a bunch of jack booted Nazi's out killing any innocent they came across.   Then again this book dealt with the top of the class, the type that for the most part did not get relegated to camp duty.  The most disturbing observation I made was that here was a very strong, intelligent group of people that were lead to ultimate destruction in only a few years - if it could happen there... This book delivers on what it states it will, an overview of so of the men that made the Germany military successful.  It is a good first step if you are looking to increase your knowledge of the area.	2002-04-06
1590397:US	41012519	R15U1K9B9Y78DJ	0451623908	202495653	The Money Bazaars (Mentor Series)	Books	1	0	5	N	N	Not My Cup of Tea	I found this book very dull, so much so I gave up half way through it.  The three days I was readingthe book felt like the longest &quot;month&quot; of my life.  I have to admit that the book was given to me; I did not go out looking for it.   Becuase it was given to me, I felt a responsiblity to keep reading.  This in not an area I am interested in which is a bit part of my review.   I would assume that at this point the book would be outdated.	2002-04-06
1590443:US	41012519	R22ERSE0A4HE2H	0517422867	965990510	World War II: 4,139 Strange and Fascinating Facts (Strange & Fascinating Facts)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Light Reading	This is a fun book just to flip though.   I did notice a few errors but I do not think my knowledge of the events would rate as expert enough to come up with 130.  The Penguin dictionary of the third Reich is better.   Get this book for what it is, a time killer or help with trivial pursuit.	2002-04-06
1590450:US	41012519	R1QMYYDL8OXGXU	0553250582	14779767	Vengeance	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Buy This Book Now	I liked this book.  I do not want to sound morbid, but I almost wanted to cheer each time they were successful.   After the 9/11 attacks, every American will want our government to form the same type of team to hunt down the terrorists and their leaders.  This book moves fast and gives a very interesting view into the Mossad.  There are a lot of details, but in no way do they slow the story down.  This book is truly exciting.  The James Bond tools they use are another fascinating part of the story.  You should buy this book.	2002-04-06
1590473:US	41012519	R30B97581N4609	0030604141	553173938	Libyan sandstorm	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Outdated	This is an interesting view of this madman although the material is getting dated.   There are not a lot of other detailed works of his life so this may be your best bet.  The book moves ok with some interesting facts but I doubt it will keep you up at night.	2002-04-06
1590504:US	41012519	R1WP6VAO5MLEX7	0451163532	248649827	On Wings of Eagles: The Inspiring True Story of One Man's Patriotic Spirit--and His Heroic Mission to Save His Countrymen	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Great Author, Great Story	When telling a story, hire a great writer and that is exactly what Ross did here.  Sure the story in its self is a great, but I am glad he had Ken Follett tell it.  I did read this book before Ross ran from President so I did not have the view of him that I would today, i.e. I might tend to think some of the parts of the story go to his ego.  This is a well-written book that tells a story that not many Americans know about.   If you are interested in this part of the world, Terrorism or the Iran Hostage crises this is a must read.   There is a good amount of detail and the required maps and diagrams.  The book reads very well and will be finished before you know it.	2002-04-06
1590541:US	41012519	R1MY5IQ7V1J1P4	0670525170	86348126	On to Berlin: Battles of an Airborne Commander 1943-1946	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Solid Job by Author	I was not too sure of the book when I picked it up, but once I started reading I found it very interesting.   The details of the relationship (or lack there of) between Patton and Montgomery are very interesting.   How the Allies kept it together with these two ego's leading is a credit to Eisenhower.    I also enjoyed the details of the Italy campaign, one part of the war that is not covered much.   The descriptions of the battles in Berlin prompted me to get a few books on the topic.   Overall this is a good book, it does not have the \\"Black Hawk Down\\" battle descriptions, but it does deliver a very well written history of the experiences of the Airborne.  The author did a solid job.	2002-04-06
1590545:US	41012519	RRP33HT7ZMNZV	0446939382	328862045	Breaking Cover	Books	3	3	5	N	N	There Are Better	This was an ok review of his time in the White House although in the current age of tell alls this does not necessary stand up.   It is interesting to compare his view o the last days of the Nixon years with the \\"Final Days\\" or \\"Exile\\".  Overall this is a readable book but there are many better.	2002-04-06
1590569:US	41012519	R202T0NSVH4K1J	1582791007	989117052	The Second World War Vol. 1 - Outbreak of War (The 2nd World War)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Series	I found this series of books very interesting for the real time reports.  There are also just a massive amount of photographs.  Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not go to the library.	2002-04-06
1590590:US	41012519	R2UDDEP005SIDH	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent Throughout	By reading this book I came to the conclusion that Hitler almost made it to rule all of Europe.  I have not read a better overall account of the Nazis then this book offers.  It does not have in-depth coverage of battles, as that is not the focus of the book.  What it does cover is the overall details of the leadership of the Nazis through the period.  The title could make you think this is going to be one of those very dry reviews favored only by history professors, but that is not the case.  The book is a well-written and orderly book that is easy to read.  The detail of the personalities involved made the list of characters easer to remember.  There is just so much good information that this book should be the first book read by anyone wanting to gain an understanding of WW 2 in Europe.	2002-04-06
1590715:US	41012519	R3HM5BGZSK89YV	1853673110	965539763	War on the Eastern Front, 1941-1945: The German Soldier in Russia	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good First Step	This is a good book on the topic because it covers many of the issues the average solder had to face.   The author does not bog us down with a lot of detail on tactics or hundreds of different division names from multiple armies.   This book reminds me of \\"Eyes Deep in Hell\\" which covers the foot solder in WW 1.  The author does keep the story moving and before you know it you have completed the book.   This book is not the overall history of the front, just a very well written overview.  If you are looking to start studying the eastern front or just want a good book on the topic, I would recommend this book.	2002-04-06
1590718:US	41012519	RPVL6L16ZIWMM	0809469669	867312116	Fists of Steel (The Third Reich)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good Series	I am a big fan of anything Time Life puts out on World War 2.  I found this whole series of books very interesting for the amount of detail, the layout and the overall look of the books.  This is the best place to start if you want to learn about World War 2.  They are very easy to read with a great deal of corresponding diagrams, maps and photos and really bring the words alive.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you need to get a copy of these books	2002-04-06
1590720:US	41012519	RQH6MT8SK4AHE	0316501115	841614490	Goodbye, Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Good Battle Detail	This book reminds me of the movie Full Metal Jacket somewhat - not that it was that dark, just that it gives the reader of view of what it was like in boot camp and then into the battle.    The author does a very good job with this work.   He is known for telling other peoples tails, but he does a great job with his own story.   The battle information is top of the class and the details on a Marine beach assault, teaches the reader everything you need to know.  This is more then an old solder telling you about the letters he received, it passes for a very good start to the pacific theater with background as to why a battle was taking place.  He also does a great job of describing the battles from a solders point of view, in the class of Black Hawk Down.   I would recommend this book before a larger comprehensive history, it will get you excited to take them on.	2002-04-06
1590731:US	41012519	RTRW7B3HLZYPP	0684829495	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good Historical Overview, Yet a Bit Dry	This is one of the must reads in you are interested in Nazi Germany.  The pre 1930's info about Speer did not interest me, I was not looking for his autobiography, but the \\"inside account\\" of his years in the inner circle is very interesting.  I really enjoyed the detail of the personalities of the German leaders he dealt with.  It is interesting to me that the building projects directed or proposed by Hitler were just as much an extension of his ego as was the military conquests.  I think the book also gives you a correlated view of what Speer did at the trails, where he said yes what they did was wrong and he was sorry, yet in the book he does not fully take responsibility for the deaths of the thousands of slave labors he used to arm Germany.  I felt that he was trying to use this book to further the remembrance of him as not one of the truly [bad] members of the leadership.  The book is good but the writing could have been better.	2002-04-06
1590732:US	41012519	R23LX9HJQ2XXUV	0816020566	203086956	The Never-Ending War: Terrorism in the 80s	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Could Act as a Reference Book	This book offers the reader a very good run down of the Terrorist organizations currently or historically active.   This book can act as a reference book in many ways.   The format is well thought out and the details are easy to get at.  They provide a break down of who each of the groups is and why they are active.  They also add a number of stories that really make this book a great overview of the issue.   I would like to see them update the book for the 90's.  If you see this book and you are interested in the topic, pick it up.	2002-04-06
1590808:US	41012519	R1Q0SSBYPHUPTS	156619671X	325603231	Air Disasters: Dialogue from the Black Box	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Standard Fair	I must be a rubber necker to the highest degree because I always enjoy these type of books.   It has the standard fair, nothing really new on the format.   The author does give us a good amount of detail, which he is known for.  I would always like more photos, but there is enough to tell the story.  If you like this type of book then you will enjoy this one.	2002-04-06
1590809:US	41012519	R1HI5SIB175K8O	1582791015	137956839	The Second World War Vol. 2 - Blitzkrieg (The 2nd World War)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Series	I found this series of books very interesting for the real time reports.   There are also just a massive amount of photographs.  Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not go to the library.	2002-04-06
1590840:US	41012519	R1I1N2ZSYGGUNG	1582791082	279981475	The Second World War Vol. 9 - Victory (The 2nd World War)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Series	I found this series of books very interesting for the real time reports.   There are also just a massive amount of photographs.  Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not go to the library.	2002-04-06
1590872:US	41012519	R1CVX9NEGM9UXO	0809469839	871539925	Afrikakorps (The Third Reich)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Good Series	I am a big fan of anything Time Life puts out on World War 2.  I found this whole series of books very interesting for the amount of detail, the layout and the overall look of the books.  This is the best place to start if you want to learn about World War 2.  They are very easy to read with a great deal of corresponding diagrams, maps and photos and really bring the words alive.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you need to get a copy of these books.	2002-04-06
1590906:US	41012519	R2OV0TIRQP6QSW	0394710355	168192134	Into That Darkness: An Examination of Conscience	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great Work	Wow, it is just amazing to me the way he tries to justify what he was in charge of, the crimes against humanity that he committed.  This author does a wonderful job of bring out what was going through this worms mind.  The details you get here are very hard to take once you have finished the book and think about it.   This is one of the few books that for weeks after I finished it I would continue to think about it and go back to pick it up to refresh my memory.  If you are interested in learning about how normal Germans could have committed these acts this should be the first book you pick up.   I could not put it down; it really grabs you and does not let go.  Even if you are not overly interested in WW 2 or the Holocaust you should read this book, there is no way you will not be griped by it.	2002-04-06
1590918:US	41012519	RLK0RM77AZZ9Y	0345322797	648113675	Everything We Had: An Oral History of the Vietnam War (Presidio War Classic. Vietnam)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Not Just Combat	I picked this book up for the wrong reason, I thought I was going to be reading account after account of fire-fights.  What I got was more human experiences that in the end I probably enjoyed more then just review of battles.  Don't get me wrong, there is combat, but there is so much more to the real experiences in the every day life.  You really get a feel for what the foot soldier went through.  The book does read ok, you notice the different writing styles of the different authors, but the content is really the focus of the book.	2002-04-06
1590943:US	41012519	R1BJW2IMRM108H	0809469626	177489117	The New Order (The Third Reich)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Good Series	I am a big fan of anything Time Life puts out on World War 2.  I found this whole series of books very interesting for the amount of detail, the layout and the overall look of the books.  This is the best place to start if you want to learn about World War 2.  They are very easy to read with a great deal of corresponding diagrams, maps and photos and really bring the words alive.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you need to get a copy of these books.	2002-04-06
1590951:US	41012519	R2V3AWX4U6K1BP	0394514289	378535546	Secret Agenda: Watergate, Deep Throat, and the CIA	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Interesting Details	This was an interesting book.  There are a lot of details in here that you did not get from All The Presidents Men.   I would recommend reading the book for the extra information.   The book was adequately written but did not drag.  I think the better book is Silent Coup, but this book is still worth reading.	2002-04-06
1590967:US	41012519	R4A6NU94ODYF9	0668043180	414858281	German Army Uniforms and Insignia, 1933-1945	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Specialist Book	You have to really enjoy this subject to find value in this book.  Overall the author did a good job, although I would have liked to have more background on some of the topics.  I have found the book to be a good guide while visiting WW 2 museums that have uniform collections.	2002-04-06
1590970:US	41012519	R2ZDY7A858Q4AJ	0809015072	379481243	A Higher Form of Killing: The Secret Story of Chemical and Biological Warfare	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Amount of Detail	This book is a little dry and at this time somewhat dated.   There is a renewed focus on this topic now so it is worth a review if you have the time.  The book does not suffer from a lack of detail or facts, and it does seem to be well researched.  What interested me the most was the scale of the governments ever increasing efforts to find new ways to kill the enemy.  If you a looking for a historical overview of this topic, then this book fits the bill.	2002-04-06
1591007:US	41012519	R2JCEWYJSC1K1T	0345300882	961495565	Breaking with Moscow	Books	4	16	18	N	N	One of the Best of the Type	This is a good book that has some very interesting points that just keep coming back to haunt the American Presidents.  Substitute the USSR with Islamic Fundamentalists.  There are a good deal of tradecraft details in the book and a number of reviews of operations run against the US.   This book reads well, and if you are a fan of cold war personalities then you should find a copy of this book.   It is one of the better books to come from the group of defectors that all seem to get a book deal roughly 25 minutes after they enter the states.	2002-04-06
1591021:US	41012519	R2VBLVSKSJ8ASN	0809481502	261574109	The Road to Stalingrad (The Third Reich)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good Series	I am a big fan of anything Time Life puts out on World War 2.  I found this whole series of books very interesting for the amount of detail, the layout and the overall look of the books.  This is the best place to start if you want to learn about World War 2.  They are very easy to read with a great deal of corresponding diagrams, maps and photos and really bring the words alive.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you need to get a copy of these books.	2002-04-06
1591076:US	41012519	R1GSM3A7ZACBKR	0306809583	870273880	The Bunker	Books	5	25	28	N	N	One of the Must Reads on the Topic	I was a bit concerned when I first picked up this book, thinking that it may be dry with tails of generals looking at maps for days on end.  The book is nothing like that, and I was very pleased with this book.   It flows very well and is full of very interesting facts (some almost gossip).   He also covers all the other major people in the bunker with a good amount of detail.  There are very good descriptions of the actual surrounding and very detailed maps and diagrams.  I also liked the details of the escape groups after Hitler dies, very interesting.   Some details in this book have been stated differently in other books, but all in all a very good effort.  I would also recommend \\"The Last Days of Hitler\\" by Hugh Trevor-Roper.	2002-04-06
1591086:US	41012519	R2SDWKTV1D6AQI	0345022254	842918895	Nazi Regalia (Ballantine's illustrated history of the violent century)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Causual Interest in Topic	This book is obviously geared for the person that is really into this topic.   For that point of view the book is average and there are better, more detailed volumes out there.   If you are looking at this just as a curiosity or as a casual reader then it fits the bill.   There are a large number of color photos / pictures that give you a taste for the look and feel but the quality of the pictures are not all that good.   Personally I would have liked more detail but as a primer to the topic the book is antiquate.	2002-04-06
1591099:US	41012519	R26W4WQHH83QH7	0801839475	13167130	Eye-Deep in Hell: Trench Warfare in World War I	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not A WW 1 Overview	The book provides you want the title implies, a solders view of trench warfare.  This was the first book I read about WW 1, and that was probably a mistake on my part.   This book does not provide the reader with much of the background or political reasons of the war, but that is not the intent of the book.  There is a lot of detail about what it was like to be a foot solder during both combat and off combat times.  I would have liked more focus on all of the other countries solders in a comparison format.  Overall a good book that reads fast.	2002-04-06
1591128:US	41012519	R2VP8KZB9HWRDV	0831707666	893180295	Best of Signal: Hitler's Wartime Picture Magazine	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very Intersting View	I found this book very interesting from the point of view of this is what the German solder was reading and it helps to understand some of what they must have felt like going from being on top of the world to fighting to keep numerous armies out of their home land.  What is interesting to do is to look through a volume such as this and then compare it to similar UK or US volumes; you will find many of the same topics and themes just with different titles.  If you can find a copy I would suggest picking it up.	2002-04-06
1591146:US	41012519	R3LS79HU5EP584	0394510925	827618130	Three Mile Island	Books	3	6	6	N	N	There Are More Up to Date Books	This is an adequate review of the topic, but to get more up to date details I would suggest a newer book.  I did find that I wanted more background detail at times.   I would have also liked more details of what was taking place in the White House.   Overall, not a bad book, but I wish I had spent the time with something more up to date.	2002-04-06
1591194:US	41012519	R9XBN9895E4VE	0785812075	6837061	Blitzkrieg: From the Rise of Hitler to the Fall of Dunkirk	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Book Moves as Fast as the Battles it Covers	I found this book very enjoyable.   It was full of interesting facts and moved as smoothly as the fiction the author writes.  It starts with a good overview into what took place in Germany to lead them up to the 1939 attacks.  It provided an easy to grasp view of the tactics that the German armor forces used to such devastating effect.  I also think this work shows the benefit of training and strong leadership, many times the Germans did not have the type of numbers that are generally thought of as needed to attack fixed forces.  The additional drawings and diagrams make the test easy easier to understand.   This book moves as fast as the battle it describes, it is well worth the purchase price.	2002-04-06
1591214:US	41012519	R1S185OS59RUZG	1582791074	913845506	The Second World War Vol. 8 - Invasion	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Series	I found this series of books very interesting for the real time reports.   There are also just a massive amount of photographs.  Looking back on the reporting now you can see the misleading stories that could be contributed to the fog of war or government spinning of the truth.  I think if you are a real die hard World War 2 buff you will get a lot out of these books, if not go to the library.	2002-04-06
1591231:US	41012519	R2VRWQXKDJYE1F	0399127380	934336930	Crisis: The last year of the Carter presidency	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Light, Easy to Read Review	This book does not hit the Bob Woodward standard of a blow-by-blow account covering all participants, but it does offer an interesting view of the situation.   I would have liked more discussion of the economic issues, but maybe there just was not the focus on them by Carter (that may explain the outcome of his administrations economic record).  The author does write in an easy to follow method and comes off as more of a conversation between friends in place of a heavy political review.   This is an interesting book that is worth the time if you are interested in the political environment during the hostage crises.  There are better reviews of the election process namely by Elizabeth Drew.	2002-04-06
1591255:US	41012519	RUYIF8T5LQ9M5	0671440217	52646548	Exile: The Unquiet Oblivion of Richard M. Nixon	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Very Good Book	This was truly a wonderful book.   The writer really gives you personal account of the \\"comeback\\" of Nixon.  There were a lot of details that I am sure most Americans do not know as Nixon basically fell off the radar screen until his death.  This book gave you some much personal information that I put it down and have a new appreciation for what he went through.  I would suggest reading this book right after `The Final Days\\", the two books work very well together.  There is also an interesting section in \\"Shadow\\" about Clinton and his speak at Nixon's funeral.  This is a very interesting book and if you are interested in his life of just American politics I am sure you will also find the book interesting.	2002-04-06
1591281:US	41012519	R3MVPUVUGC1R0P	0195042360	113205815	Inside the Vicious Heart: Americans and the Liberation of Nazi Concentration Camps	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Moving Book	This was an interesting view of the horrors of the holocaust.  I think there is better works that detail out what happened in the camps, but this book really gives you the insight into what it was like to roll through the gates of the camp in an American jeep.  You almost can feel the chain of emotions the solders go through: confusion, anger, pity, and sadness.   This must also be in some small part what the current American solders see in Afghanistan with millions starving.   This is a well-written, very unique look at the topic and is well worth the price.  You will \\"feel\\" this book for a long time after you have finished it.	2002-04-06
1591314:US	41012519	R3HMUQ6ALQH06O	1840184957	503396076	Jihad!: The Secret War in Afghanistan	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Average	I read this book in the spring of 2001 and at the time I was somewhat interested in a war that I did not know a lot about. Given the events post 9/11 it would be interesting to reread the book. The book was ok, it offered some interesting facts of the British Special Forces operations, but it did not provide a good overall view of the conflict, country or people of Afghanistan. There are a number of books now coming out about this conflict and part of the world that would probably offer a better overview. If you are interested in British Special Forces then this would be a good book for you.	2002-04-05
1591383:US	41012519	R1P9NLU430NHKB	0380707268	303476734	Speaking Out: The Reagan Presidency from Inside the White House	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A lot of Gossip	I have read a number of books covering the Reagan Administration and this rates as one of the more enjoyable to read. Not from a hard facts point of view, but becuase of the level of gossip. From talking about the different personalities of the top officials to the make up of the Reagan suit collection, the author(s)do a good job of giving you the kind of information you would gather from an office coffee break conversation. This is a fairly light book that provides the reader an interesting view into the personalities of the President's close circle. If you are looking for an in-depth decision about the policies or events, this is not your book.	2002-04-05
1591387:US	41012519	R1G8YJ3ZOPZGPU	0671894404	481207217	The Final Days	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Book	A very good book, for my money it is better then All The President's Men. I could not put it down, it really read fast.   It really gives you a view into Nixon under pressure.  It has all the detail that you would expect from a Woodward book and also brings out some of the personalities involved.  It also gave me a much better understanding of what Nixon actually did in the way of crimes.  This book should be on your list if you are a political junkie.  To gain a good understanding of the Watergate affair read both All The President's Men and The Final Days together.  I highly recommend this pair of books to anyone looking to understand this period of American history.	2002-04-05
1591530:US	41012519	R39JM1O84XWV6E	0393301982	376038690	The Battle for the Falklands	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Good Historical Overview	I do not remember much about this event from when it took place so reading this book provided me a good overall account of the war. I would have liked a more in-depth US political view, but that was not focus of the book. The book does offer some good coverage of British politics, which is interesting to an American. There is also a very good review of the events that lead up to why the British were down there in the first place. I would have liked a more balanced view of the Argentina military effort. <br />With the position that the UK has taken over the last 50 years with its colonial possessions, I would have thought that Argentina would have had more patience with the political effort. The book did give a good picture of the military action that took place, the tactics and weapon systems. It is a good book and worth reading.	2002-04-05
1591583:US	41012519	R1MF9IDIBZ5Y24	0671894412	221450502	All the President's Men	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Big Woodward Fan	What can I say that has not already been said?   This book is very good and given the problems of the last administration, it is even more interesting.   I am also a huge fan of Bob Woodward.   Do yourself a favor and read The Final Days also by Bob Woodward.  Together they give you a very good overview of the situation in the last two years of the Nixon White House.	2002-04-05
1591634:US	41012519	R21AWJHL16JIW8	0393318346	580762283	Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	2	5	11	N	N	More Detail Please	Maybe I missed something in my copy of this book, but I was disappointed in the level of detail.   I was expecting a blow by blow account Bob Woodward style and I got what I viewed as almost a campaign \\"get to know the candidate\\" piece.   I wanted more details about how the other people involved in the issue were acting and thinking.   I also wanted more detail on JFK and the overall military activity.   I come away from this book still looking for more information.	2002-04-05
1591941:US	41012519	RMNBC5AJ3ZFI2	0140292594	363901167	Breakout: The Chosin Reservoir Campaign, Korea 1950	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Marine Bias	This is a well-written book and keeps a good pace up throughout. There is just the right mix of political groundwork, first person views, and the overall picture to make it a fascinating book. The book really makes one appreciate the efforts of the Marines given the conditions they fought in. The book is critical of Douglas MacArthur and the U.S. Army, and given the outcome of the next American war maybe this view was a precursor to the next conflict. I do have to wonder if the U.S. Army was that unorganized given it was just 5 years after WW 2. This is a good book that is well worth reading.	2002-04-05
1591983:US	41012519	RD4LW0GIALBS5	0060932651	769945410	Deadly Departure: Why the Experts Failed to Prevent the TWA Flight 800 Disaster and How It Could Happen Again	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Good Overall Picture of the Event	I think the author did a good job in the overall coverage of he accident. I would have liked a bit more in-depth review of the whole government shoot down theory. The reader is provided with a some good information about who was on the flight and the explosion. The book reads fast, but like main disaster books tends to slow down toward the end...	2002-04-05
1591988:US	41012519	RJX9MAUR5SYUD	0971170924	99642304	Afghanistan: The Bear Trap: The Defeat of a Superpower	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Very Interesting	This is a very interesting book. It provides a good amount of detail about the US - Pakistan process for arming the Afghanistan fighters. It is also an eye opener about the world of international arms sales - what surprised me the most was that many Arab nations were willing to send complete junk for weapons to fellow Muslims. I also enjoyed the story of the first shoot down of a Soviet helicopter and the videotape that made its way to Reagan.<br /><br />I would argue with the statements about the abandonment of the US - we did leave but we were never in this war to nation build. All of the countries helping out the Afghanistan's were doing so to fight the USSR, not to nation build Afghanistan. We completed a bargain, however unseemly, which was to supply weapons not to make Afghanistan the 51st state. The one thing I would have liked was a bit more size. Overall, a good book and I would recommend it.	2002-04-05
1592091:US	41012519	R2U7MSM8Z5NI3G	0684873869	679898926	Saddam's Bombmaker: The Terrifying Inside Story of the Iraqi Nuclear and Biological Weapons Agenda	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Interesting Look into Iraq	This is an interesting autobiography that offers a look into the world of a dictatorial society by one of the elite class. Many times throughout the book I kept being surprised at the overall cruelty of Saddam. The details of how hard the government of Iraq tried to develop nuclear weapons is interesting and a bit scary. Unfortunately, like so many things in this world, if you have the money you can usually buy what you are after. Luckily in this case, Saddam ran out of time. The one bright spot was the large amount of time and money that was wasted on projects that did not succeed. I have noticed that this book and the author are becoming a reference point by the media talking heads in discussing the Iraq WMD programs, that means to me that this \\"defector\\" is telling a truthful story.	2002-04-05
1592235:US	41012519	R2HE6NYUI6TNML	0394542614	465459334	The Target Is Destroyed: What Really Happened To Flight 007 And What America Knew About It	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A Bit of Cold War History	Wow, some of the things that took place in the cold war were catastrophes. The difference between this incident and the American shoot down of the Iranian plane is that this was done on purpose it would seam. I think if you would read more about this era you would find that the USSR did finally discipline the Commanders that made this mistake, but in typical Soviet style they did it in secret thus eliminating any public good will they may have gained. I think the biggest error made by the Regan administration is that they did not immediately release the tape, which one could argue that the gathering of the information may have lead to the 007 shoot down. The book is an enjoyable read that moves fast.	2002-04-05
1592244:US	41012519	R3T7ZKVH0JU670	0813337674	154661656	The Road To Kosovo: A Balkan Diary	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good Start	I think this book details why politicians and large political / military organizations like NATO have such a difficulty in successfully performing low level military conflicts like the peacekeeping effort in the Yugoslavia region.  This book details by representing the destruction and ongoing fighting, just how ineffective the peacekeeping process was at the start due to a half-hearted commitment by the political leaders.  The military in the conventional sense, is not a police force or social working group, the purpose of the military is to destroy the enemy.  When asking this force to go about a job they are not designed for with one hand tied behind their back and the constant fear of every decision being second-guessed, is there any surprise that the effort did not work for some time.  <br />I think this book provides one with a good start to understanding the civil war in Kosovo.   I think one would need more details to have a better understanding of what will need to take place for this area to live in peace.  A good follow up would be to read Waging Modern War by Wesley Clark.	2002-04-05
1592246:US	41012519	RSC77MXLBLKYC	158648043X	940035790	Waging Modern War:  Bosnia, Kosovo, and the Future of Combat	Books	5	11	21	N	N	Fustrated Reader	I finished this book and was frustrated at the process we have now created for military action.  Overall this is a very good book, which detailed the way NATO works, and the political issues involved in a military campaign.   There was a lack of tanks in the street or Special Forces details one would expect with a review of a combat situation.  The frustration I came away with is that we are putting our military forces in almost no-win situations where they need to be more of a police force then a combat force.  Unfortunately, that is not the job of the U.S. Army.   It is a good book and interesting.  I would have liked a bit more detail on the actual combat.	2002-04-05
1592327:US	41012519	R16PN35L2QJ3MO	0718142950	801296901	All Necessary Measures	Books	3	6	6	N	N	More Background Needed	The author does a good job of describing the British effort. I would have liked a more detailed review of the political and social situation that brought the country into the civil war. I also think more could have been done to develop the overall desperate state that the whole country fell into. I would look at this book as a good start to finding out more about the conflict but not the only book one would want to read.	2002-04-05
