4401:US	45193257	RFPT5ORUAV9FU	0897501446	329505309	Shotokan's Secret: The Hidden Truth Behind Karate's Fighting Origins	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Excellent overall, with one small quip	I found this to be one of the most well-researched and thought out books on the shuri-te and shorin-ryu styles I've read in many years. Although an academic, the author's style is lively and far from dry and he recounts many enjoyable and interesting stories from many of the important masters. I heard many of these too as a young martial artist and they are still worth repeating.<br /><br />Using diverse sources of information and scholarship, the author recounts much of the known history of shotokan and, more interestingly, tries to recreate by \\"reverse engineering\\" how the principles and techniques of Shotokan were developed by Matsumura in his position as chief bodyguard of the Okinawan king, Sho Tai.<br /><br />The last section in the book reflects the ongoing stuggle to understand the bunkai, and the author gives many of his own unique interpretations. Some of these are truly unique, such as a bunkai involving standing on a staircase, one forcing your way through a crowd, and so on. I don't know whether these are the correct ones or not, but as any martial artist knows, each kata technique usually has more than one application. So in that sense Clayton's idea is as valid as any other.<br /><br />Even if their true original applications still elude us, I applaud the author's emphasis on the bunkai, it being my experience in many years in both karate and kung fu that the forms applications are too often ignored and not taught well even if they aren't, in favor of your typical, more obvious sparring techniques and applications. While there is nothing wrong with that, the techniques and principles that are implicit in the kata are one of the things that keep karate from being just a more sophisticated type of streetfighting, and a true martial art. If fighting is all you want, you can always study boxing or kickboxing and certainly learn how to defend yourself quite well. But a true martial art is more than that.<br /><br />I also feel that there are principles of body mechanics and kinesiology, including advanced speed, power, focus, and hard vs. soft principles, that are present in the kata that are rarely made explicit. For example, techniques can be not just hard or soft, but the hard and the soft can exist in the same technique, not just separately, and I teach my own students how to distinquish them, and more importantly, how to use them. But these principles are also rarely taught from what I can see in my over 40 years in the martial arts. The proper understanding and control of soft vs. hard principles is especially important in simultaneous block and strike and in same side block and strike. In fact, this is where some of the most interesting applications to hard vs. soft techniques come in.<br /><br />Clayton also points out that so much of the history and so many people died in the battles of Okinawa between the U.S. and the Japanese that the real history and applications have been lost. There is some truth to this, as he points out that Shuri City experience one of the most devastating artillery bombardments of WWII and was basically reduced completely to rubble, portions of only two buildings remaining standing. 60,000 Okinawans and 90,000 Japanese died during these battles, including many karate instructors and their families. Others, such as Kyan, starved to death in the aftermath.<br /><br />Other writers here have mentioned a few faults, but I had one main criticism, which is the author's insistence that white crane is a hard style of kung fu. Anyone who knows the southern kung fu styles, and white crane in particular, knows that it is a soft style, representing the Yin aspect, rather than Yang. In practice, a white crane practitioner is evasive, avoiding the opponent's strikes rather than meeting them with similar force, and precisely attacking pressure points and nerve centers rather than using power.<br /><br />In fact, much of white crane kung fu, of which there are several substyles, is actually Chi Gung, and also soft martial Chi Gung, although it has hard martial Chi Gung also, in addition to the usual empty-handed and weapons forms. It also has a considerable amount of chin na (standing holds, locks, and grappling) in addition to striking and kicking.ctually Chi Gung, and also soft martial Chi Gung, although it has hard martial Chi Gung also, in addition to the usual empty-handed and weapons forms. It also has a considerable amount of chin na (standing holds, locks, and grappling) in addition to striking and kicking. <br />	2005-10-11
15486:US	45193257	RNIIIPTIPPGYE	0028643771	517395681	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Music Theory	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Grreat book	This is an excellent book on music theory. It's one of the clearest, most concise and well written books on the subject I've ever seen. All the different aspects of music theory are covered. Years ago, when I first studed music theory, there didn't seem to be books as easy to understand as this one, and I suffered through a number of ones that just weren't as good. Overall, a very fine volume on the subject.	2005-10-05
20361:US	45193257	R2DYIJYL8ARELY	0873378377	863030418	Get a Life: You Don't Need a Million to Retire Well, Fourth Edition	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A few comments	Like all \\"royal road to retirement\\" advice books this one is a mixed bag with some very sage and wise advice on some topics, but weaker on other topics with a lot of facile generalities and waving of hands in regard to how actually to do it on less than a million bucks. Overall though, I applaud the author's emphasis on quality of life vs. a life devoid of meaning and quality personal relationships but with plenty of money--which is what the financial types will try to sell you. As some wag once said, real money is easy to come by--it just takes a lifetime of hard work. Of course, by that time, your wife has left you, your kids hate you, and you have no friends. What's the point of that? I think a compromise is therefore in order, with a downscaled, more modest retirement but with having preserved one's family and friendships intact. On the other hand, this is America, the land of the Almighty Dollar, to which we all bow and scrape and perform obeisance, and if you've got a gadzillion bucks up the wazzoo you can always buy friends, if you can call them that. And I've discovered that in the U.S., money truly does buy friendship of a sort--at least you'll never be bored and alone on a Friday or Saturday night. Anyway, whatever you decide, this book offers an alternative. The decision is up to you.	2005-10-02
26848:US	45193257	R1WV7Q3TIAQYX6	0028636619	25699677	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Wine, Second Edition (2nd Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A brief comment	Because of all the snobbery surrounding wine I found the idea of an \\"Idiot's Guide\\" sort of funny, what with all the pretention and slender or even false erudition masquerading as the final word in the area. But Seldon's book peels back the highly polished surface but ultimately thin facade of the wine world to give you the basic, unbiased, and unvarnished truth and information that you need.<br /><br />Every aspect of wine and wine appreciation is discussed, from how to open a bottle to understanding the many different varietals, wine growing, wine making, the effect of climate and terrain, and of course wine tasting and appreciation as well. The well written, clear and concise text make the book easy and enjoyable to read. I've read a number of other books on wine and I still learned a lot from this book. It would be a great choice for a beginner to start with, and even if you're more of an intermediate and advanced wine afficianado, you'll probably still learn something from this book.	2005-09-29
31914:US	45193257	RPNKP7ME7KXNX	0674013425	489765449	The Quantum World: Quantum Physics for Everyone	Books	5	30	35	N	N	A brief comment	I agree with my fellow top 50 reviewer, Dennis Littrell, that this is one of the best, and possibly THE best, book on quantum mechanics for the layman ever written. I also disagree with the spotlight review by the person from Ecuador that the book is a terrible one. No doubt this reader is one of those elitists for whom any book that attempts to be accessible to the non-scientist or non-specialist and doesn't have enough math to dazzle a David Hilbert is simply pandering to the ignorant and benighted. Yeah, well, when this reviewer wins his Nobel Prize maybe he can cop an attitude like that and make it stick. But I doubt he has.<br /><br />But getting back to the book, since my fellow Top 100 reviewer has pretty much said it all, I just wanted to say that I thought Ford's explanations of Feynman diagrams were the easiest and clearest to understand that I had seen yet. I've seen several other treatments but I always felt I wasn't really getting the whole thing, and Ford managed to explain it in a way that the layman can understand. Ford's explanations of many other quantum phenomena are equally clear and concise.<br /><br />By the way, although not a physicist, I'm not exactly a novice when it comes to science, and I see no problems with books like this. My masters and doctoral work were in neurophysiology and neuroanatomy, and theoretical and mathematical neurobiology and biophysics, but that is not the same as being a real physicist, so the full mathematical treatments would be too difficult for me too, although I have also read more advanced books on quantum theory that require far more math. But books like Ford's also do a service for scientists who were trained in other fields like myself who, although not untutored when it comes to physics and math, don't have the time to become as adept as a true physicist on all the theoretical details. Ford's book does that very well, and the previous comments by the other writer are pretty much totally off-base. And as you can see from the other reviews here, most are quite positive.other reviews here, most are quite positive.	2005-09-26
33694:US	45193257	R314P3R877TNPL	1400043999	553485584	Heroes: Saviors, Traitors, and Supermen: A History of Hero Worship	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Erudite and enjoyable	This is an erudite and quite fun history of several men who I didn't know that much about before, such as Garibaldi and Wallenstein. The others, especially Alcibiades and Cato, and Drake, I was already fairly familiar with from reading some ancient and other history.<br /><br />The careers and personalities of of this diverse group of men are examined in the light of the question, \\"What makes men truly great?\\" This is a more difficult question to answer than one might think. The author points out that Alcibiades, despite being a traitor to Athens, still was not despised and was feared and more respected by the ancient Greeks, since they believed that a truly great man was above and could transcend the more humdrum moral exigencies of the common people. And although we regard Odysseus as a strong, brave, and courageous ancient Greek who survived many amazing calamities and adventures, Odysseus was regarded by the ancient Greeks more as a corruptor of innocence than a true hero in that sense.<br /><br />If you're a reader of Greek and Roman history much of this section will already be familiar to you, but I'm not and I especially enjoyed the discussions of life in Sparta. I knew they lived especially ascetically and their marriage customs were strange, but that was it. Apparently, they lived on a unbiquitous black broth, made love in the dark (the woman often never knowing what her husband looked like), and had other odd customs. For example, boys were deliberately fed less then needed to sustain them so they would be forced to steal food to survive. But they were only whipped if they were caught. And girls were made to sing nude at noon in the marketplace, as this was thought to promote modesty. The author states that the girls were also fed one seventh the amount of food of the boys, but this is clearly not possible since no one could possibly survive that way.<br /><br />Despite how we might view such customs today, the ancient Spartans were looked upon by the other Greeks as exemplars of a noble, virile, and ascetic life that harkened back to an earlier and simpler era, and the Spartans were respected for that as well as their military skill and discipline. The early Renaissance writers such as Petronius and Dante similarly regarded Virgil's poetry as representing a noble and pastoralic way of life that they nostalgically over-romantized themselves.<br /><br />The other chapters on Drake, Garibaldi, and Wallenstein were also enjoyable, and I can recommend the book as a fine introduction to not only the lives of these men, but you will learn quite a bit of the history of each period as well. For example, I didn't know that much about the time of the 30 Years War, except that when it ended with the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, that was when Switzerland first gained its independence, and France got Alsace and Holland. But this was the era when Wallenstein was rampaging around the countryside terrifying both friend and foe.<br /><br />As the editorial review states, \\" To exalt scoundrels like Drake or Wallenstein is to challenge our modern dictum that all are created equal; recognizing this, Hughes-Hallett appends a cautionary coda about the antidemocratic legacy of these Nietzschean \\"supermen.\\" She notes that a hero needn't be virtuous; he need only \\"inspire confidence and... appear, not good necessarily, but great.\\" Compellingly portraying her heroes, Hughes-Hallett is equally brilliant in evoking both the allure and the danger of hero worship.\\"<br /><br />I completely agree with this assessment and would point out that one need only look to the last century with leaders such as Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, and so on, to show that 2000 years after the ancient Greeks, people are still predisposed to follow great leaders down the primrose path to their ultimate destruction if they are not very careful. Thus, the book serves as a timely warning on the dangers of heroic scoundrels and charismatic demogogues, and the dangers of raw,unchecked, political power.<br /><br />Finally, the book is brilliantly written and Hughes-Hallett can turn a phrase with the best of them, somestimes dashing off comments with a truly ironic and even mordant wit that are a delight to read (as well as being grateful one's own life didn't become the object of her scrutiny, since few of us are saints :-)). So as I said, all in all a very erudite, informative, and enjoyable book on history.ok is brilliantly written and Hughes-Hallett can turn a phrase with the best of them, somestimes dashing off comments with a truly ironic and even mordant wit that are a delight to read (as well as being grateful one's own life didn't become the object of her scrutiny, since few of us are saints :-)). So as I said, all in all a very erudite, informative, and enjoyable book on history.	2005-09-25
35974:US	45193257	R2RT5BNAA6X7IQ	0028641981	69994453	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Astronomy (2nd Edition)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent first primer	It had been 20 years since I'd read an astronomy text, and I wanted to get back up to date, so I tried this book, and it was a good choice. This would make a good, first book on astronomy for almost anybody. It's clearly and concisely written, and it requires almost no math and only a basic understanding of physics. (The purists and techies might object to that, but remember, this is an \\"idiot's guide.\\" :-)) It could probably be used by a high school student. The basic concepts and information on astronomy are discussed without getting very technical.<br /><br />The authors also discuss the history of astronomy from its earliest origins to the most recent theories. The different areas of astronomy, such as planetary astronomy, stellar astronomy, observational astronomy, astrophysics, and cosmology are all covered in detail in separate chapters. The coverage is very good and new results up through the late 90s and turn of the new millenium, including recent probe missions, telescropic findings, are included. I was out of date around 1980 so I was especially interested in the more recent developments of the last 10 years, which as I said is covered quite well.<br /><br />I noticed a few things had changed since I was last reading up on astronomy. Back then, the universe was thought to be as old as 24 billion years, but today it's only thought to be about 14.5 billion years old. There were several methods of estimating the age of the universe, which were the recessional velocities of the galaxies, the age of the oldest, reddest globular clusters circling our Milky Way galaxy, and the 25 centimeter background radiation. The oldest figure of 24 billion years was from the globular cluster research done by the late, great Harlow Shapley early in the last century. But anyway, apparently recent research has revised than down a good 10 billion years.<br /><br />I also notice that modern astronomy texts don't seem to have as many beautiful color plates of nebulae and galaxies as in the old days, but no doubt that relates to keeping costs down. The color photos in this book, although fewer in number, often come from the Hubble Space Telescope, and the ones of the Hubble Deep Field which contain 10,000 galaxies are truly awe-inspiring and are better than anything they could get back then, so the books make up for the lack of quantify perhaps with better quality.<br /><br />Since I was out of date, the chapters I was most interested in were the last two on galactic evolution and cosmology, in which many of the most important new theoretical and observational developments are discussed. Back in my day, it was thought the universe was expanding but could eventually brake to a halt and start contracting, as in the oscillating universe theory, and it was thought this cycle could take 70 billion years. Now it's thought that the expansion is actually still gathering momentum and speed, which was a surprising result to me.<br /><br />The book concludes with an appendix and glossary of astronomical terms. Overall a very nicely done, well written and readable account of the subject for the beginning student.no doubt that relates to keeping costs down. The color photos in this book, although fewer in number, often come from the Hubble Space Telescope, and the ones of the Hubble Deep Field which contain 10,000 galaxies are truly awe-inspiring and are better than anything they could get back then, so the books make up for the lack of quantify perhaps with better quality.    Since I was out of date, the chapters I was most interested in were the last two on galactic evolution and cosmology, in which many of the most important new theoretical and observational developments are discussed. Back in my day, it was thought the universe was expanding but could eventually brake to a halt and start contracting, as in the oscillating universe theory, and it was thought this cycle could take 70 billion years. Now it's thought that the expansion is actually still gathering momentum and speed, which was a surprising result to me.    The book concludes with an appendix and glossary of astronomical terms. Overall a very nicely done, well written and readable account of the subject for the beginning student.	2005-09-24
51489:US	45193257	R3IV1DR9MA4R1L	1592571409	668417051	The Complete Idiot's Guide to the Politics of Oil	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent overview and history	I'm just a few chapters into this book, but I was enjoying it enough so that I wanted to make a brief comment. I'll probably write a more thorough review later.<br /><br />This book presents the history of oil, and how it came to dominate the politics and policy of the entire world in just the last century. There is some interesting history in that the authors discuss how the oil industry actually originated in Romania. By the time of the first oil well in the U.S. in 1859, Romania was already mining 1000 metric tons of oil per year by means of open pit mines, since this was before effective drilling began.<br /><br />Until then mostly all there was was oil seeps with oil coming up from the ground, and the occasional farmer using the gloppy stuff to lubricate an axel or two, and it was used in patent medicines. But there was no real industrial or widespread use even in heating or lighting, with whale oil being the main product there. Then because of some strange coincidences involving several people who were brought together, the first American oil well was sunk, and the rest, as they say, is history.<br /><br />I notice one person here panned the book because of its perceived liberal bias, but it's really only a slight liberal bias in that sense. And the authors do mention that the evidence about Bush's \\"secret oil report\\" that supposedly influenced the discussion to invade Iraq that's discussed was only reported by a European newspaper. They don't claim it's actual fact.<br /><br />But anyone who doesn't believe that the U.S.'s need for oil at least to some extent drives political policy is living in a very naive, political cloud-cuckoo land. We live in a world of increasing resource scarcity on many fronts now, and oil is just the most conspicuous of those.<br /><br />So overall, a good book on the subject and one that I learned a good deal from.	2005-09-16
54803:US	45193257	RI6D3QEEHSI4W	0781722659	219213284	Biochemistry (Lippincott Illustrated Reviews Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wow	All I can say is wow, what a terrific science review book. I hadn't looked at a biochem book in many years, and I picked it up to review a few topics, and I was quite impressed with this volume. The beautiful color illustrations and the concise and clearly written text make reviewing easy, efficient, and enjoyable. I only wish there had been such beautifully designed study aids like this when I was a young college student 30 years ago.<br /><br />At over 500 pages and with over 30 chapters covering all the main topics, this is a big book. But if one considers that even your typical biochemistry text can easily be 1000 pages, you're really only talking about a 2 to 1 compression. But that gives one some idea of the extent of the material one is expected to learn--truly a daunting prospect, but this book should be a useful aid to anyone needing a to do that.<br /><br />My only quip about the book is how much it might have been had all the illustrations been in black and white rather than color. The price isn't cheap, at 45 bucks, but given the nice, glossy paper and all the color illustrations--of which there are hundreds--I would say the price isn't out of whack for what you get. But I remember what it was like to be a poor college student many years ago, and it always seemed like books cost too much. But since I've heard that college texts can cost $100 these days, vs. $10 in my day, maybe that's not out of line.<br /><br />Overall though, a very well done, clearly and concisely written, beautifully illustrated, and thorough review book on biochemistry that is enjoyable to read and use.	2005-09-14
61468:US	45193257	RHH2IZIVJN1VN	089750089X	454507940	Modern Arnis: The Filipino Art of Stick Fighting	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A brief comment	Now over 20 years old, this was one of the first books in English on escrima. At just over 150 pages and with 9 chapters covering the different topics, Guru Presas packs much good information into this small book. Many of the most important topics and skills are covered, and the photos and decriptions are clear and easy to understand. Although I have a more recent edition, the photos are still clear and not too dark or too light, as sometimes happens with the plates with older books. Close-ups are used when needed to show the details of hand positions. There is also a brief history of escrima at the beginning of the book.<br /><br />Nowadays videos have in many ways replaced books as instructional materials in the martial arts, but video was still relatively new when this book was written, and it still stands on its own as one of the best early treatments of escrima. To see the actual movements, though, there is really nothing like a video, many of which are available used on the web for less than the price of the book. But books on the martial arts can still serve a useful purpose by discussing more technical matters such as theory, strategy, and topics like history, and perhaps as as catalogs and references for the techniques of a particular style.<br /><br />Among Guru Presas's many legendary abilities, he was perhaps best known for his ability to perform disarms, and this is covered in the last chapter of the book, in addition to hand techniques, flow drills, trapping, the various single and double stick techniques, and other topics.<br /><br />I have to mention that I had an opportunity to do a demo for Guro Presas back in the mid-80s with my teacher of Chinese Chin Na, the Kung Fu holding and locking art. As you probably know Guro Presas is also skilled in the Filipino version of this art, and was also a champion in Dumog, or Filipino wrestling and grappling, when he was younger. He enjoyed our demo and was very impressed with my master, Sifu Tony Ho, and his skill.<br /><br />I am also a certified instructor in Kali/Escrima through the Ted LucayLucay lineage under Chuck Gonzaga, and have studied Serrada Escrima in addition to Kali. Chuck is a great martial artist himself and I am proud to be one of his students and instructors, and to have had the honor to demo for Guro Presas many years ago when I was still a young martial artist.d his skill. <br /> <br />I am also a certified instructor in Kali/Escrima through the Ted LucayLucay lineage under Chuck Gonzaga, and have studied Serrada Escrima in addition to Kali. Chuck is a great martial artist himself and I am proud to be one of his students and instructors, and to have had the honor to demo for Guro Presas many years ago when I was still a young martial artist. <br /> <br />	2005-09-11
89934:US	45193257	R1CY1MU77P3N2Y	0810927519	448485261	Vermeer: The Complete Works	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Good brief volume	A fine book on Vermeer with brief but to the point commentary on each painting by the author. I've seen Vermeers in the Rijksmuseum in the original, and although no color plate in a book can do justice to them, at least this book has them all. Other reviewers have already commented on several issues with the plates, so I will just say that Vermeer's rich, saturated colors and use of transparent and translucent glazes are impossible to really reproduce in print, at least at a reasonable cost, not to mention his amazing treatment of specular highlights.<br /><br />The book shows all known Vermeers, of which there are less than forty,  usually with several paragraphs of commentary on each painting. The author does a good job of placing each painting in the context of Vermeer's overall oeuvre while discussing the painting's special or unique points. No doubt you'll recognize many of your favorite Vermeers here.<br /><br />Vermeer's masters are still a mystery although Carel Fabritius, Rembrandt's most famous student, and others have been proposed, but without conclusive proof. We may never know who trained him, but one thing is for sure, early on after being certified as a master of the guild, Vermeer turned from the more dramatic subject of historical paintings to painting the intimate and understated works he's known for, in which people are treated almost like inanimate objects in a still life and the light permeates whole volumes of space with liquid effect. Forever a girl stands in front of a virginal, or pours milk from a pitcher, while the light dances and plays around her.<br /><br />Someone once noted that Vermeer's spaces are quite empty and uncluttered, but this makes sense if you think about it. Since Vermeer was fascinated by light, and the way different surfaces and textures reflected light, Vermeer would not wish to clutter up any space and interfere with the propagation and reflection of light throughout the space. Vermeer was nothing if not a painter of light and lighting effects which he treated more like a dynamic and fluid medium which literally molded the space it touched rather than simple lighting in that sense.<br /><br />Vermeer also often liked to pose his models playing musical instruments or reading letters, using the act of reading a private communication to create a more intimate mood or identification with the person.<br /><br />The author also provides a brief introduction and history of Vermeer's life and work, which is about five pages long in this large paperback format, so it's probably more like ten pages in a normal book. Overall, a brief but very well done book on Vermeer.light and lighting effects which he treated more like a dynamic and fluid medium which literally molded the space it touched rather than simple lighting in that sense.<br /><br />Vermeer also often liked to pose his models playing musical instruments or reading letters, using the act of reading a private communication to create a more intimate mood or identification with the person.<br /><br />The author also provides a brief introduction and history of Vermeer's life and work, which is about five pages long in this large paperback format, so it's probably more like ten pages in a normal book. Overall, a brief but very well done book on Vermeer.	2005-08-26
101867:US	45193257	R2XMM4B10T3BS	1580085415	257566027	What Color Is Your Parachute?: A Practical Manual for Job-Hunters and Career-Changers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The venerable classic	Although this is the legendary bible for job hunters and has now been around for three decades (and two different centuries and millenia now :-)), I have to admit that I found it only marginally useful. There's some good advice here, and a lot of interesting data and info relating to jobs and careers, but much of the author's approach is very touchy-feely and relates to analyzing and determining exactly what you want in a job, and then going after it--assuming such a \\"dream job\\" exists at all.<br /><br />I think it's safe to say that in the current employment environment, such jobs don't exist and the reality is, what with more jobs having been lost overseas than any other time in the last 65 years, including possibly the Great Depression, that you will probably have to settle for considerably less than your hoped-for dream job. Although I certainly agree with Bolles that one must find one's passion and pursue it if one can, since if you're doing it 40-80 hours a week you may as well do what you enjoy, the reality is that is more difficult now than ever before.<br /><br />I still give the book four stars for effort and for its historical importance, I guess you'd say, and there is a lot of good info and data on the job and career area that this book brings under one cover. Some of the ideas are useful, and Bolles's many checklists and questions may get you thinking in a more creative way about your choice of a job, how to strategize and go about finding a job, and how to zero in on exactly what you want. But overall this famous volume on getting a job really doesn't address the issue of just how hard it is to actually find one, especially for those of us who are now over 50 and have been put out of work by the recent trend of jobs going overseas.	2005-08-20
105703:US	45193257	R3LWIA4FMOX2CC	1570627495	779654169	T'ai Chi Classics (Shambhala Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Some useful commentaries	After a brief consideration of the history and origins of tai chi, the author proceeds to explicate the most important principles of tai chi through a presentation of the three most important tai chi classics, along with modern commentary written by the author. I found his elaborations on the more condensed and sometimes cryptic sentences and paragraphs in the original classics very helpful, and in fact, most of the text in these chapters is actually his, not the classics themselves. The chapter on jin theory and its many types and their nature and applications was also excellent.<br /><br />Ultimately, no book on tai chi can really capture its full essence and complexity but this book I thought did a good job of trying to explain it in understandable terms. The author's explanations and claims about the physics weren't always correct, and one has to take with a grain of salt the idea that ch'i can travel faster than light, but then I don't expect tai chi instructors to be that knowledgeable on western physics. It's just the way it is. (As I am a western trained scientist I can figure that part out for myself). But the author's treatment of the other aspects of tai chi was much better in my humble opinion and I enjoyed the book for that.	2005-08-18
108490:US	45193257	R36UMI3Z76WXXJ	0892819448	543706734	T'ai Chi According to the I Ching: Embodying the Principles of the Book of Changes	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Very detailed	Very detailed discussion of tai chi concepts, linking the techniques explicitly to the 8 trigrams, the five activities and five elements. The book is chock full of diagrams and illustrations that show these relationships, which makes it good as a reference, as you'll find few other books that lay it all out like this one does. Also discussions and presentations of the pre-heaven 16-movement form for both yin and yang parts, and the 64 move post-heaven form, the 8 hands, and the 8 stances as well. There's a huge amount of detail here also, which is bound to make it a little intimidating to some people, but overall a very detailed book although perhaps more than most people will want to wade through to gain an understanding of these concepts, since most tai chi practitioners are probably more interested in practical applications rather than an advanced knowledge of taoist theory. But at least some knowledge of that is necessary to become a truly advanced practitioner, and this book serves very well in that regard.<br /><br />By the way, a little history here and also by way of comparing tai chi with kung fu. Tai chi was developed in the vicinity of the Wu Dan mountain, and is one of the three internal arts, along with Hsing I and Ba Gua. According to the history, tai chi was developed when a master (can't recall his name right now) back in the 13th took the Twelve Canons of Chinese Boxing, a famous martial arts book, added the great Da Mo's internal principles and modified the postures, and created the first tai chi movements. In the beginning there were only a half a dozen movements, but these were later expanded.<br /><br />Although tai chi is known as a soft, internal art, it's not correct that it can't be hard. Tai chi is both hard and soft, but the balance between the two is different. In kung fu or Shaolin, the hardness and softness run the full gamut or spectrum. There are movements which are extremely soft and there are others that are very hard with lots of power and strength.<br /><br />In tai chi, however, the two principles of yin yang come into play, which means that the hard and the soft are always balanced, and there is never an excess of either, so you don't get the extremes like you do in kung fu. However, tai chi is capable of hitting very hard when it wants. My masters would prefer to use the other person's strength against them, but when pressed, they had no problem with just hitting you hard, either, and they could hit just as hard as my karate and kung fu masters. :-)<br /><br />Another point to keep in mind is that there is considerable overlap between kung fu and tai chi, as both have internal training. It's just that in tai chi, they start with the internal and work outword to the external, and kung fu starts with the external and works inward. In that sense, their methods are opposite sides of the same coin. This is because kung fu's internal chi gung methods come from Da Mo (or Daruma or Bodidharma, as he's sometimes called), rather than from the master or master's who developed tai chi. There are even similarities between the three external harmonies in tai chi, which is the shoulders in harmony with the hips, the elbows in harmony with the knees, and the hands in harmony with the feet (they are supposed to move together), in kung fu. I study hung gar kung fu also, and some of the movements also incorporate these principles.<br /><br />Finally, although tai chi is well known these days for pushing hands and for off-balancing the opponent, actually, that part was incorporated into tai chi later on. Tai chi was originally a purely dim mak or points striking art. Most people who study tai chi still don't seem to know that fact as most do the short form for health and exercise, and the martial aspect and especially the point striking principles aren't taught as often. But tai chi has medical, martial, and spiritual aspects, and it is said that the Yang style form has 7 levels of performance, with the highest being the spiritual level.<br /><br />Well, I didn't mean to digress so much, but I mention all this since sometimes in books like the present one, it's easy to lose sight of the overall guiding principles in tai chi, which aren't really that mysterious, they're just different, and get lost in the details. Really, the taoist concepts in tai chi aren't that difficult to understand intellectually, it's the actual physical application of them in the tai chi form that can take you half a lifetime to really learn and get good at. :-)I didn't mean to digress so much, but I mention all this since sometimes in books like the present one, it's easy to lose sight of the overall guiding principles in tai chi, which aren't really that mysterious, they're just different, and get lost in the details. Really, the taoist concepts in tai chi aren't that difficult to understand intellectually, it's the actual physical application of them in the tai chi form that can take you half a lifetime to really learn and get good at. :-)	2005-08-16
109612:US	45193257	R2VPUBO4KKWTMA	080507600X	217073735	Satisfaction: The Science of Finding True Fulfillment	Books	5	25	32	N	N	Very interesting and well written account	Part personal memoir part scientific odyssey, this book explores the relationship between pleasure and pain in the brain and how they are mediated and controlled. Ultimately, the author's goal is to explain how we attain true satisfaction in life, not merely physical pleasure, no matter how intense, since that is fleeting.<br /><br />The author's quest takes him from the labs of distinguished scientists to clubs frequented by the S & M crowd, and to countries like, oddly enough, Iceland, where he describes an interesting genetic study that is taking place. The author does a superb job of discussing the relevant neuroscience without getting too technical, covering the relevant history and scientists who have contributed to various areas of the brain research into pleasure and pain. The account of Dr. Robert Heath's work was fascinating, and that's just one of the many people discussed in the book. Add in some frank discussions of de Sade's and Masoch's lives and works, and how their writings relate to the issue of pain becoming pleasure and you have one of the most interesting brain books for the layman I've encountered in recent years.	2005-08-16
111838:US	45193257	RJUDTBAK2U1UZ	0393326586	648906079	Extreme Weather: A Guide & Record Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very interesting and readable	This is a well written and fascinating book on weather extremes. I'm only about 100 pages into it, but I enjoyed it so much I wanted to make a brief comment.<br /><br />Although the book is mostly about extreme weather phenomena, you'll also learn a lot about more normal types of weather, since if you understand how the more extreme storms are generated, you often can understand how the less severe ones occur as well. But this is done in the context of learning about the more severe and extreme types of weather, which I find an interesting approach. After all, there isn't much when it comes to natural phenomena that's scarier than a hurricane or a tornado (well, earthquakes and tsunamis of course are right up there too, but in weather, they're the kings :-)). I once read that a typical hurricane can release each second 100 times the energy in the first atomic bomb (which was a 20 kiloton bomb).<br /><br />The book discusses weather extremes from rainfall to tornadoes for the U.S. and the rest of the world, including many fascinating topics, such as internally lit tornadoes that glowed with their own light. Witnesses reported orange lightning bolts coming out of the bottom of the spout which would then be sucked up by the violent winds into the interior, thereby lighting up the entire tornado. There are a couple of photos of these sorts of tornadoes, including a black and white one at night showing two luminous tornadoes that obviously had to be internally lit. Very cool stuff and my only complaint was there weren't more photos like this, but then these are very rare phenomena.<br /><br />Also, the maximum winds typically don't exceed 325 miles per hour, and most tornadoes are usually more like 75-125 miles per hour. This is just one of the many very interesting topics covered.<br /><br />Overall a very cool book on weather, and I'll have more to say about it later when I finish the book.	2005-08-14
124249:US	45193257	R18SDGL7QH0VBS	1580085520	451580728	The Joy of Not Working: A Book for the Retired, Unemployed and Overworked- 21st Century Edition	Books	3	39	45	N	N	A brief comment	Mr. Zelinsky is an engaging, funny, and persuasive writer on the evils of overwork and being gainfully employed, and the advantages and joys of retirement, but unfortunately, I have to agree with several of the other comments here that he is long on praise and short on practical advice on how to actually do it.  <br /> <br />Some of his examples of people who did it are not realistic for most of us (for example, the guy who is biking around foreign countries on $6000 a year). If you have a wife or a family, forget it, $6000 a year isn't going to cut it. And for most of us, cutting back on our work schedule in one's forties or even fifties is a very serious decision. If you end up being fired and unemployed because of that, and later decide that you don't have enough money to retire, you will be faced with getting a job in your 50s after having been unsatisfactorily terminated from your last one because you were following Mr. Zelinsky's appealing but misguided advice. Somehow, I don't think your prospective employers will be impressed if you show them a copy of Mr. Zelinsky's book as justification for your happy but premature departure from the workplace. <br /> <br />This book best serves as a pep talk for those who have the financial wherewithal, creativity, and perhaps intestinal fortitude to go it alone and have probably been thinking about it for some time. For those people, there is some good info and advice here. For that it serves well as an enthusiastic and even exhortatory and inspiring book on taking that great leap into a more joyful but probably financially more modest and downscaled retirement.	2005-08-08
125736:US	45193257	R16VJEUW0GIYEB	0743497848	922341911	This Immortal	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Classic 60s New Age novel	This was one of Zelazny's first full-length novels, and it already shows him as a confident author in complete control of his materials, and with many of the themes that were to inform his novels during the rest of his very productive career. Zelazny went on to write 50 books, including novels, collections of short stories, and even several collections of poetry, but many of the elements he became so well known for are present here.<br /><br />The protagonist is more than human in many ways--he doesn't age--but with a self-effacing, wise-cracking, self-deprecating sort of humor, a character type that was to become his favorite. The \\"Methuselah\\" trait added a surrealistic quality to an otherwise somewhat cynical, quite reality-grounded, character. Zelazny had the ability to paint quick, incisive but also subtle protraits of his characters in a few telling lines, but also devotes entire paragraphs to describing their psychology and appearance too. And his interest in myth, legends, and ancient history is shown in the many references to ancient Greece, the protagonist being Greek too.<br /><br />That having been said, I had one minor quip, which is that except for the characters of Hasan the assassin and Conrad, most of the other main characters weren't really drawn that well. You didn't really get to know them and they remained obscure all through the book. I found this odd considering Zelazy is usually pretty good with characterization.<br /><br />Similar to his book, Damnation Alley, Earth is a post-nuclear wasteland, a formerly vibrant but now devastated civilization, which the more advanced and peaceful Venusians find fascinating as a case study in primitive intelligence and culture gone wrong. Some of them even want to turn the earth into sort of a freakish post-Apocalyptic resort, such as the visiting Venusian or Vegan scholar in the story.<br /><br />In addition to the above elements, add in a few more imaginative characters, such as a deadly Arabic hired assassin who prides himself on his professionalism and still has his scruples; robot \\"golems\\" that are used as martial arts training partners; mutated, 40-foot long, half-snake, half-crocodile creatures; giant bats; massive earthquakes that sink several islands in the Aegean; and a couple of secret terrorist plots and political intrigues, and you have a pretty good idea of the story. Obviously, Zelazny had fun creating and thinking up all these ideas for the book and it shows, as this early novel still remains one of his finest works, and it was certainly deserving of the Hugo that it won.rofessionalism and still has his scruples; robot \\"golems\\" that are used as martial arts training partners; mutated, 40-foot long, half-snake, half-crocodile creatures; giant bats; massive earthquakes that sink several islands in the Aegean; and a couple of secret terrorist plots and political intrigues, and you have a pretty good idea of the story. Obviously, Zelazny had fun creating and thinking up all these ideas for the book and it shows, as this early novel still remains one of his finest works, and it was certainly deserving of the Hugo that it won.	2005-08-07
127218:US	45193257	R2JJSPMVM9JYL9	0486672905	631976866	A Course in Advanced Calculus (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A few comments	This book combines formal mathematical analysis with the usually more applied concepts in a first course in advanced calculus. However, I agree with the other comments here that the book is just too dense for the average student for a first course in these subjects. If you have a very good previous background in general analysis, or if you used Apostol's books for calculus in the past, you might find Borden's book accessible. I was mainly interested in a review of eigenvalues and vectors, but the concepts were still more technical than I was comfortable with, probably. So as a first book I would look elsewhere, unless you are very strong in mathematical analysis and are looking for a book that combines more formal topics there with advanced calculus topics. If it weren't for the inappropriately high level of difficulty, I would rate the book four or five stars just as a scholarly achievement, but a course in advanced calculus is still an undergraduate, not a graduate level class, and this book seems like it was intended for someone with a more advanced background.	2005-08-06
129140:US	45193257	R63LNVHF9BI2A	0789446030	358233662	Sister Wendy's 1000 Masterpieces	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Some comments on how to use this & other art books	I have to say right off that I enjoyed sister Wendy's The Story of Art more. The writing was better and I found her descriptions of the different art works much more exciting and occasionally even inspired. In this book the descriptions seemed more mechanical and less interesting. It's still not a bad book, though, and sister Wendy's books on art are a relatively painless way for someone without any previous art knowledge to get at least an introduction and a basic background in the field before going on to more advanced works.<br /><br />Sister Wendy not being a traditional academic, perhaps, I understand her intepretations have been criticized for their less than stellar scholarship, but I've read many dozens of books on art in the past, perhaps hundreds, ranging from coffee table picture books like this to very technical, scholarly works, and much of the information is similar to what I encountered there. But sometimes her interpretations are her own and not necessarily the accepted ones, and you should be aware of that.<br /><br />But in an area as big and difficult and confusing as art history, one can't read one coffee-table book and expect to have a real grasp of the subject. The best way to use sister Wendy's books is as a stepping stone to get your feet wet, and then to progress to more advanced reading. In learning to understand a painting for example, you're really trying to become a visual thinker just like the artist was, and to understand at least the basic principles of color, texture, shape and form, perspective and space, design, and overall composition, that the artist uses and manipulates when he paints a picture.<br /><br />For example, a 17th century Dutch artist like Vermeer's use space and light is not the same as the early Italian artist Mantegna, or even Vermeer's contemporary, Rembrandt. Likewise, a modern painter like Matisse doesn't use color and form in the same way as Mantegna's contemporary, Fra Angelico (actually they do in the sense that they both employ heavy symbolism :-)). But anyway, the point is that people often look at artists as painting by means of some mysterious talent, a sort of artesian well of ineffable inspiration and genius that bubbles up from nowhere that they have and the rest of us mortals lack. This view, however, is not the case. Although not everyone can learn to draw or paint well, probably, anyone can learn, if they try and work hard enough at it, to actually understand works of art very well. The main problem is that the verbal desciptions in the text don't really represent that well the visual aspects of a painting, and one must learn to really \\"see\\" the painting with one's own visual system as opposed to just reading the textual description.<br /><br />As the great psychologist of art and aesthetics, Rudolph Arnheim, showed in his books, such as Visual Thinking, artists are really visual thinkers and problem solvers, no different from thinkers and scholars and even scientists themselves in many ways. Once you learn to think in this way yourself, you can understand a great deal about a painting on your own without having to read the \\"official descriptions\\" in the books intended for mass consumption, and you can form your own aesthetic interpretations, opinions, and analyses that will be just as accurate and valid on your own. You should still be aware of the \\"standard scholarship\\" and interpretations of the paintings before doing this, though, since knowing and understanding those is how you will eventually get the idea for how to strike out on your own and interpret them yourself.<br /><br />But getting back to the present book, this is a good volume for getting a basic understanding, and the 1000 masterpieces in this book contain many of the most important works that one should know about in the history of art. So overall, a another good book by sister Wendy even if, as I said, I prefer the earlier one myself.sense that they both employ heavy symbolism :-)). But anyway, the point is that people often look at artists as painting by means of some mysterious talent, a sort of artesian well of ineffable inspiration and genius that bubbles up from nowhere that they have and the rest of us mortals lack. This view, however, is not the case. Although not everyone can learn to draw or paint well, probably, anyone can learn, if they try and work hard enough at it, to actually understand works of art very well. The main problem is that the verbal desciptions in the text don't really represent that well the visual aspects of a painting, and one must learn to really \\"see\\" the painting with one's own visual system as opposed to just reading the textual description. <br /> <br />As the great psychologist of art and aesthetics, Rudolph Arnheim, showed in his books, such as Visual Thinking, artists are really visual thinkers and problem solvers, no different from thinkers and scholars and even scientists themselves in many ways. Once you learn to think in this way yourself, you can understand a great deal about a painting on your own without having to read the \\"official descriptions\\" in the books intended for mass consumption, and you can form your own aesthetic interpretations, opinions, and analyses that will be just as accurate and valid on your own. You should still be aware of the \\"standard scholarship\\" and interpretations of the paintings before doing this, though, since knowing and understanding those is how you will eventually get the idea for how to strike out on your own and interpret them yourself. <br /> <br />But getting back to the present book, this is a good volume for getting a basic understanding, and the 1000 masterpieces in this book contain many of the most important works that one should know about in the history of art. So overall, a another good book by sister Wendy even if, as I said, I prefer the earlier one myself. <br /> <br />	2005-08-05
130800:US	45193257	R29PV6QF0MIKCY	0375761187	691093854	The Time Machine: An Invention (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Important novel historically but now dull reading	After 40 years and half a lifetime of being a sci-fi fan I finally got around to reading War of the Worlds and The Time Machine. I'd read a couple of Wells's other books that are less known, such as In the Days of the Comet, a very slow-paced novel without much action compared to the above two in which the earth becomes a peaceful Utopia after passing through the strange gases of a comet's tail. But I had never read his two greatest masterpieces. After I saw the recent Spielberg remake of War of the Worlds, I decided it was finally time to read them.<br /><br />This book has a notable intro by LeGuin that is readable and informative, and I enjoyed that. The book itself, unfortunately, I found just so-so. I acknowledge Wells's importance and skill as an author, and his importance to the history of sci-fi, but to me this was just pretty dull stuff. I found the future society of the Eloi and the Morlocks to be valid in the sense that they are basically a reductio ad absurdum of present-day capitalist society, but that's about it. I understand Wells was fond of creating future dystopias that, as another reviewer here commented, stood Victorian society on its head, but as I said, this is still pretty thin gruel on which to build a novel. And Wells's style seems an incongruous medium for recounting a story almost a million years in the future, although in War of the Worlds I thought it worked out much better. Wells's somewhat formal and turgid Victorian prose seems an appropriate medium for describing the complete destruction of human society by the Martians.<br /><br />In many ways, The Time Machine works better as a mood piece than as a science fiction novel, and the final part of the story in which the author travels millions of years into the future when the sun is dying and the human race has finally died out I found to be the most convincing part of the book. The dichotomous society of the Eloi and Morlocks, who represent the twilight of the human race, and were really no longer truly human, are gone, and the sun and earth are now in their twilight as well. This was the most evocative and poignant part of the whole book, and recalled the similar and wonderfully evocative ending in Arthur C. Clarke's Childhood's End, in which the human race also comes to a bittersweet ending by evolving into a strange communal intelligence, thereby leaving the limitations of individual corporeal minds behind.<br /><br />So while I appreciate Wells's greatness and importance as a founder of the genre and think this is still an important and even epochal book in the history of the field, I find it more gravid with historical significance than readability at this point. Perhaps I'm jaded as so much of modern science fiction wouldn't have been written without it, especially many of the classic time machine stories that followed in the 20th century, but in comparison to a lot of the modern stuff, well, I have to say it's pretty dull sledding. So perhaps I'm just a cultural barbarian, but I can only give it 3 or 4 stars, primarily as I said, beause of its historical and literary significance.uly human, are gone, and the sun and earth are now in their twilight as well. This was the most evocative and poignant part of the whole book, and recalled the similar and wonderfully evocative ending in Arthur C. Clarke's Childhood's End, in which the human race also comes to a bittersweet ending by evolving into a strange communal intelligence, thereby leaving the limitations of individual corporeal minds behind.    So while I appreciate Wells's greatness and importance as a founder of the genre and think this is still an important and even epochal book in the history of the field, I find it more gravid with historical significance than readability at this point. Perhaps I'm jaded as so much of modern science fiction wouldn't have been written without it, especially many of the classic time machine stories that followed in the 20th century, but in comparison to a lot of the modern stuff, well, I have to say it's pretty dull sledding. So perhaps I'm just a cultural barbarian, but I can only give it 3 or 4 stars, primarily as I said, beause of its historical and literary significance.	2005-08-04
139451:US	45193257	R2PMYUHF5E8GPW	0764566431	10325559	Is It Too Late to Run Away and Join the Circus?: A Guide for your Second Life	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good, practical advice, but see below	The back cover of the book touts Smye as an important \\"thought leader,\\" whatever that is, but it sounded impressive, so I had high expectations for this book.<br /><br />After reading the book, however, I found most of the advice is basically common sense. Anyone who has spent five years or more in the corporate world will already know much or most of it, but there is some value in bringing this sort of practical information under one cover. Perhaps I would have found it more impressive if I hadn't been expecting so much. Still, there is much good advice here and Smye's style is quite readable and certainly not dry or boring.<br /><br />The book's message, however, is pretty basic and hard to argue with: change is inevitable, so you either get in sync or learn to adapt to it or get run over. And if you can follow your own mantra and opt out of the corporation, even better. That I can certainly agree with. However, I also appreciate the fact that most people, as in the example of the book, can't became a Yoga instructor and sacrifice the better paying corporate job to do that.<br /><br />I wanted to say one more thing about American business's fascination with continuous change. Of course, the goal of change is \\"improvement.\\" It is difficult to disagree with this idea in theory. And I agree with Smye that people need books and info like this in order to better deal with change. However, to my mind, that's not the main problem.<br /><br />Especially in the corporate world, there is too much change just for the sake of change that is not particularly well thought out or original and therefore not likely to produce anything positive in the way of results. Or, the changes are based on a good idea that had real potential but the execution is so poor that it has little effect or ends up causing more harm than good. There are even times it is obvious to everybody (except management) that the new changes are completely wrong-headed but get executed anyway, and then they're surprised when they have a disaster on their hands.<br /><br />That having been said, given that changes are quickly and inexorably coming your way, Smye's book contains, as I said, much good advice on how to deal with change that most people will find helpful.<br /><br />Finally, and not to sound too cynical about it, but it's just the reality of the situation--management loves it when employees really get behind the new, proposed changes--so you can probably win points that way with your boss if you do. Again, at the risk of sounding too Machiavellian, you do have a choice in terms of how you handle change that will put you in management's good graces or not--and may even influence your future career or not--irrespective of the validity of the changes themselves.<br /><br />The principle lesson here is that it is better to be an agent for change rather than just remaining passive and having it forced on you anyway. The choice is up to you.ter on their hands.    That having been said, given that changes are quickly and inexorably coming your way, Smye's book contains, as I said, much good advice on how to deal with change that most people will find helpful.    Finally, and not to sound too cynical about it, but it's just the reality of the situation--management loves it when employees really get behind the new, proposed changes--so you can probably win points that way with your boss if you do. Again, at the risk of sounding too Machiavellian, you do have a choice in terms of how you handle change that will put you in management's good graces or not--and may even influence your future career or not--irrespective of the validity of the changes themselves.     The principle lesson here is that it is better to be an agent for change rather than just remaining passive and having it forced on you anyway. The choice is up to you.	2005-07-31
141430:US	45193257	R88B4Q5V41FYQ	1932100555	691093854	The War Of The Worlds: Fresh Perspectives On The H. G. Wells Classic (Smart Pop series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fun book on the classic S-F story	Although this book contains the entire text of the novel, having previously read the Wells novel, the best part of this book for me was the essays by various sci-fi writers. Just over half the book is devoted to the essays. There are about a dozen interesting pieces here on different topics, but the one I enjoyed the most was by David Gerrold, so I thought I would just briefly discuss that. But the other essays are worthwhile also and I found they enhanced my enjoyment and appreciation of the book.<br /><br />In his article Gerrold discusses an obscure but interesting sequel to the Wells book, \\"Edison's Invasion of Mars,\\" which had an interesting premise. The main character was none other than Thomas Alva Edison, the famous inventor, who headed up a punitive expedition to seek revenge for the Martians' invasion. Written by Garrett P. Serviss, who obtained Edison's approval before writing the book, the novel, although virtually unknown today, had several important firsts. It describes the first space suits, the first battle in space, and the first death ray. The story was published only 6 weeks after the serialized version of Wells's novel ended in the newspaper, and as it was immediately recognized as an attempt to capitalize on the Wells novel, it quickly sank into obscurity.<br /><br />At first I thought envisioning the great inventor as the head of a military expedition was a little odd; but on the other hand, one could picture Edison bringing some good ol' American ingenuity and know-how to the task of visiting some interplanetary whuppass on the evil Martians. Anyway, it would have been interesting to read the book to see what kind of commander Edison was and how he was able to beat the Martians.<br /><br />Oddly enough, over the years there have been one or two attempts to revive it, one time by a small press that printed 1500 copies (it was in fact their only book, before the operation folded), but it was never a success. So although completely forgotten today, the story is of interest for the several firsts I mentioned, and I enjoyed reading Gerrold's piece about this now forgotten but historically important story.est for the several firsts I mentioned, and I enjoyed reading Gerrold's piece about this now forgotten but historically important story.	2005-07-30
141925:US	45193257	R383METVRULVDM	1590171586	691093854	The War of the Worlds	Books	5	18	21	N	N	The classic still packs a punch	This is an edition to savor as Gorey's black and white illustrations really add to the creepiness and horror of the Martian invasion as only Gorey's illustrations could do.<br /><br />As Gorey points out in the intro, at the dawn of the 20th century, no one would have believed in an alien invasion of earth by a superior intelligence. So one thing that distinguishes the novel is Wells's ability to decribe a realistic human response to an unrealistic event.<br /><br />Some of that complacency is evident right from the start in the novel, as the humans are at first relunctant to admit the full extent of the danger, believing the authorities and the military have taken the necessary precautions and can contain any serious threats. This is despite the fact that several dozen people get incinerated by the heat ray in the initial attempt to communicate with the Martians.<br /><br />Then there is a creeping sense of dread at the fragmentary but disturbing news from the front, but still the humans don't fully comprehend or are willing to accept the situation. When they finally do, an all out panic ensues, the chaos, desperation, hopelessness, and enormity of which Wells spends much of the novel describing as town after town is abandoned as the Martians advance, and the countryside is filled with literally millions of starving, thirsty, exhausted, and injured people. Many people are killed in the panic and stampede, rather than by the Martians. As Wells says, it is the rout of civilization and the massacre of the human race.<br /><br />I had a few comments about the tripods and their weapons. In the book, the tripods have a heat ray with a rotating parabolic reflector to aim the beam, which is invisible since it is made up of heat waves. The second weapon is a missile containing a thick, heavy, oily, and poisonous black smoke and gas which hugs the ground and seeps into every nook and cranny, suffocating and poisoning anything that breathes it. The combination of the two weapons makes the tripods unbeatable and nothing can stop their deliberate and measured advance. The movies' versions are different obviously, but this is how it was in the original book.<br /><br />There is also very little actual description of the tripods, except that they are described as being about 100 feet tall, cylindrical in shape with a rotating cowl on top, presumably for aiming the heat ray. I don't recall the color, but the metal cylinders they arrive in are a strange whitish- yellow color. Here Wells does something interesting as he says the metal gives off four lines in the blue region of the spectrum, indicating that he was familiar with the science of mass spectometry, something most people would never have heard of.<br /><br />Also, contrary to the movie portrayals, there is only one Martian per tripod. Wells's view of the Martians is that they are mainly brains with vestigial bodies who occupy whatever machines they need to do their work.<br /><br />Some of the astronomy is obsolete but necessary for the plot; for example, the Martians have come here because their planet condensed before the earth from the original primordial nebula and Mars is therefore much older than the earth and is cooling and dying a slow death. But this isn't really true.<br /><br />One minor quip about the novel. One odd thing about Wells's account is that he is very fond of smoke and dust. There is dust and smoke everywhere, including green smoke, black smoke, and a ubiquitous fine, gray dust. London and its environs, it seems, are sort of like a Hoover vacuum bag turned inside-out. However, most of the time, one never sees the Martian tripods responsible for all of this smoke, except for one scene where the smoke carrying rockets are described. However, this is interesting in that Wells's description prefigures the phosgene gas weapons and attacks of WWI 17 years later.<br /><br />Also, he often speaks of artillery guns and batteries going off in the distance although one rarely gets to see them in action. Usually Wells just says they could be heard (and there was also smoke visible), but that's it.<br /><br />On a more positive note, his account of the Torpedo Ram boat, which brings down two of the Martian tripods that were wading in the harbor, is probably the most dramatic and interesting battle scene in the entire book. My sense is that Wells, being a former teacher, isn't that comfortable describing military actions and strategy and so the novel glosses over much of that.<br /><br />Another curious aspect of the novel is if I remember right, one never learns the name of the narrator of the story or of his medical student brother. But it seems clear that the writer, who admits to being \\"speculative philosopher\\" and writer on morals, is Wells himself.<br /><br />One final comment about the book. Although it's only about 200 pages long, few novels in the history of science fiction portray such a dire, dismal, hopeless, and pretty much depressing story throughout the entire novel as War of the Worlds does. In many ways, the sci-fi genre was a literature of optimism as it was still felt in the early years of the 20th century that science could solve all social problems and the future for humans and for society was bright. Wells's novel is almost unique in pointing out the risks of science and that the universe might be a bigger, more dangerous place than we had thought. Written at the end of the Gay Nineties, Wells's novel sounds an uncharacteristically cautious and sober note about mankind's possible future.<br /><br />But despite the overall downer theme and message, it's still one of the greatest classics of science fiction, and as the archetypal alien invasion novel it has probably never been surpassed.eard (and there was also smoke visible), but that's it.    On a more positive note, his account of the Torpedo Ram boat, which brings down two of the Martian tripods that were wading in the harbor, is probably the most dramatic and interesting battle scene in the entire book. My sense is that Wells, being a former teacher, isn't that comfortable describing military actions and strategy and so the novel glosses over much of that.    Another curious aspect of the novel is if I remember right, one never learns the name of the narrator of the story or of his medical student brother. But it seems clear that the writer, who admits to being \\"speculative philosopher\\" and writer on morals, is Wells himself.    One final comment about the book. Although it's only about 200 pages long, few novels in the history of science fiction portray such a dire, dismal, hopeless, and pretty much depressing story throughout the entire novel as War of the Worlds does. In many ways, the sci-fi genre was a literature of optimism as it was still felt in the early years of the 20th century that science could solve all social problems and the future for humans and for society was bright. Wells's novel is almost unique in pointing out the risks of science and that the universe might be a bigger, more dangerous place than we had thought. Written at the end of the Gay Nineties, Wells's novel sounds an uncharacteristically cautious and sober note about mankind's possible future.    But despite the overall downer theme and message, it's still one of the greatest classics of science fiction, and as the archetypal alien invasion novel it has probably never been surpassed.	2005-07-29
143221:US	45193257	RRVLG8T9YOE5O	0898048427	136591879	In the Days of the Comet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A brief comment	Next to War of the Worlds and The Time Machine, this book isn't nearly as well known. I enjoyed the book, but can see why it doesn't have the popularity of the other two, as much of the book is an extended discussion on the politics of the day, and especially the socialist views of one of the main characters, who is basically Wells's mouthpiece. Much of the time is spent with the two main characters, one of whom is an astronomy buff who is tracking the comet, and the other his politically fevered friend, who spends much of the time ranting to his geek buddy about politics while his friend painstakingly goes about his comet-tracking work and patiently listens.<br /><br />I also have to admit I found all the discussion and detail about Leadford (the socialist friend) and his relationship with his beloved Nettie pretty dull stuff also. While this does serve as the romantic interest in the book (and there is some discussion of sex, too) I still found these passages pretty dull sledding. After all, this is still Victorian England, and so you're not exactly getting Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer here. :-)<br /><br />The book does have a dramatic backdrop and setting, taking place during a global war and a worker's uprising, although most of the action doesn't have anything to do with that. With the war already on, the appearance of the comet is like another dreaded omen, creating further apprehension about the possible fate of the world and humanity. When this book was written almost 100 years ago, WWI was still in the distant future. But the universal conflagration in the book is reminsicent of what was to transpire only a decade later. But if you're looking for the sort of action one finds in War of the Worlds or the wonder of the time machine and the drama and tension of the class struggle between the Eloi and the Morlocks in that book, this isn't it.<br /><br />The book has a positive ending though, as the earth passes through the comet and the entire population of the earth becomes briefly comatose. When they awake, humans are transformed; they are peaceful and no longer aggressive and warlike (truly a forlorn fantasy if there ever was one, but oh well, one can hope), the war is ended, and even the crime rate almost drops to zero. (I want to know if we can bring such a comet over here right now).<br /><br />Overall, still a good Wells read, but if you haven't read the other two more popular books, I'd read those first, or even The Food of the Gods. Then you could pick this one up after that if you wanted.comatose. When they awake, humans are transformed; they are peaceful and no longer aggressive and warlike (truly a forlorn fantasy if there ever was one, but oh well, one can hope), the war is ended, and even the crime rate almost drops to zero. (I want to know if we can bring such a comet over here right now).    Overall, still a good Wells read, but if you haven't read the other two more popular books, I'd read those first, or even The Food of the Gods. Then you could pick this one up after that if you wanted.	2005-07-28
143877:US	45193257	R3HEY591QKRC5D	0345438353	703326855	A Case of Conscience (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A brief comment	I used to enjoy reading sci-fi but don't read many religious books anymore, but I enjoyed Blish's odd fusion of science fiction and theology. The central question here is an example of the heresy of Manichaeism, a heresy so serious that people were excommunicated at one time for it. That having been said, it's actually a very complex issue, I learned from this book (and other readings in theology), and basically relates to the the sin of attributing creative powers to the devil. In fact, I've read that Jesuits get a whole course in this at the Vatican so they don't accidently lapse into this forbidden and heretical doctrine.<br /><br />The book paints the Catholic church and religion in general in a positive light, which is also interesting in that in so many science fiction novels, science has progressed to the point where most people simply take the scientific view and traditional religious views don't seem to matter much anymore. But the Jesuit father who is also the biologist and medical officer on the expedition is very well developed and a very sympathetic character. The physicist (unfortunately I don't recall his name) is a more hard-boiled and more logical and less emotional person compared to the Father, who truly agonizes over the question about whether the existence of Egtverchi's world means that God and traditional morality have no place in the universe.<br /><br />I don't know of too many other sci-fi novels where religion takes center stage as the main theme, except for perhaps Walter Miller's A Canticle for Leibowitz, and Roger Zelazny's Lord of Light, coincidently two other Hugo winners from first two decades of the Hugo award.<br /><br />I also don't understand a couple of reader's comments that the writing style was difficult. Come on, were you raised on MTV or something? The book is only a couple hundred pages long and Blish was not the murkiest sci-fi stylist by a long shot. His writing from what I remember was fairly straightfoward in the books and short stories I read even if he does like to speculate on philosophical and moral issues a bit as he does in this novel.<br /><br />Anyway, overall, I found this a very enjoyable read and I think it counts as one of the better overall Hugo novels from the period considering this was the first decade of the awards and several of the other books from this time, such as Clifton and Riley's They Rather Be Right, and Alfred Bester's The Demolished Man, don't seem to have stood the test of time in the minds of many fans. (I liked the Bester book myself and thought it quite good but haven't read the other, so I can't comment on it).ad even if he does like to speculate on philosophical and moral issues a bit as he does in this novel.    Anyway, overall, I found this a very enjoyable read and I think it counts as one of the better overall Hugo novels from the period considering this was the first decade of the awards and several of the other books from this time, such as Clifton and Riley's They Rather Be Right, and Alfred Bester's The Demolished Man, don't seem to have stood the test of time in the minds of many fans. (I liked the Bester book myself and thought it quite good but haven't read the other, so I can't comment on it).	2005-07-28
144018:US	45193257	R1IOP1UA5RI30U	157860219X	801972776	No Safe Harbor: The Tragedy of the Dive Ship Wave Dancer	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Rivetting read	Although perhaps overshadowed by the greater tragedy and all the other deaths and destruction that hurricane Iris caused in Belize and other Central American countries, this book gives a personal touch and note to this disaster through the account of a diving vessel many of whose passengers were killed when the boat tore free of it's moorings and flipped over in the harbor, trapping many people below decks. Although this isn't my usual type of reading, it's a thoroughly researched, dramatic, and rivetting account of the tragedy. Using interviews with many of the survivors the author recounts the story of the doomed dive vessel which sank when the 140 mile an hour hurricane struck the harbor. Although the winds only lasted an hour before the storm moved on, 95% of the buildings in the harbor city were destroyed, in addition to the tragedy of the Wave Dancer. A fine book by Mr. Burnworth, who I note is a Vietnam and army vet and who had probably had more than enough excitement in his life already before this happened.	2005-07-28
144169:US	45193257	R1A2062VIJXK75	0881926752	230899728	The Nature of Plants: Habitats, Challenges, and Adaptations	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A brief comment	As my fellow Top 50 reviewer, Dennis Littrell, has already said it better than I, I just wanted to add a brief comment, mainly because a few years ago I once spent a wonderful three weeks travelling around New Zealand observing its plant and animal life, and many of the examples of plants in the photos are from this country, since one of the authors is from there, and I've seen much of New Zealand's fascinating and diverse fauna and flora myself.<br /><br />As Dennis mentions, the photographs are superb, along with the well written and interesting text. The book is not just about the local flora however, as the author discusses interesting and important plants from around the world.<br /><br />One major difference between the ecologies of the northern and southern hemisphere is that conifers forests dominate the north, whereas the large climax trees in the south, especially in South American and New Zealand, are southern hemisphere hardwood beech trees, of which there are a number of species. Although not as tall or as massive as the sequoias and redwoods of the Pacific Coast, they can still grow to over 200 feet in height.<br /><br />Interestingly, 60 million years ago the giant sequoias and redwoods were circumpolar and once dominated the whole northern hemisphere boreal forests, but today are restricted to just a few strips of land in California and Oregon. No one knows why such huge and seemingly invulnerable trees as sequioas, which can have bark several feet thick, can hardly be killed by fire, are impervious to insects because of their thick and tannic acid rich bark, and which are the largest living things, have been dying off.<br /><br />Although, as I said, the book isn't just about New Zealand plant life, I have to add a fascinating tidbit about that. New Zealand is a very rainy and wet country mostly, especially in the south (Milford Sound is the rainest place in the world at sea level with 28 feet of rain per year, about the same as the top of Mt. Kilauea in Hawaii, but that's at 14,000 feet). In fact, it's almost unremittingly green, because there are few plants with colored flowers there. There are a few exceptions, such as the well known \\"New Zealand Christmas Tree,\\" metrosideros excelsea, which has red flowers, but it's the exception. Most have white flowers because they are fertilized by night flying moths. Colored flowers are actually for bees, and New Zealand broke off and separated from the original supercontinent before bees evolved, hence the reliance of many New Zealand plants on moths. I found this quite interesting and only learned it after I'd arrived on the island, although I was partly trained as a botanist in college and grad school.<br /><br />Overall, a wonderfully illustrated and well written book on the diversity of plant life on this increasingly ecologically fragile planet of ours, and a truly beautiful and diverse one botanically that hopefully some of which will survive the locust plague of our species centuries hence.000 feet). In fact, it's almost unremittingly green, because there are few plants with colored flowers there. There are a few exceptions, such as the well known \\"New Zealand Christmas Tree,\\" metrosideros excelsea, which has red flowers, but it's the exception. Most have white flowers because they are fertilized by night flying moths. Colored flowers are actually for bees, and New Zealand broke off and separated from the original supercontinent before bees evolved, hence the reliance of many New Zealand plants on moths. I found this quite interesting and only learned it after I'd arrived on the island, although I was partly trained as a botanist in college and grad school.    Overall, a wonderfully illustrated and well written book on the diversity of plant life on this increasingly ecologically fragile planet of ours, and a truly beautiful and diverse one botanically that hopefully some of which will survive the locust plague of our species centuries hence.	2005-07-28
145090:US	45193257	R1Y7BG03WQLNE1	140001428X	631972783	Fodor's Australia 2005 (Travel Guide)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A brief comment	I've been ploughing thru Oz guides lately researching and planning a possible trip, and this one is comparable to the Frommer's guide. A good guide, less photos than the Dorling-Kindersley, Nat'l Geog., and Insight Guides, but then you're getting two to three hundred pages less of info for five to seven dollars more in those books.<br /><br />I have a suggestion on how to use these two different types of guides, which is these beautiful, lavishly illustrated, glossy guides are great for looking at the photos of the sights and doing basic research, and for zeroing in on where you want to go, then you can pick up the Frommer's and Lonely Planet and Fodor's guides to get more information.<br /><br />For a country as big and as diverse as Oz, one guide really isn't enough, so you could buy one of each, and you'd probably do quite well. (The only problem was, after I'd looked at all the spectacular photos in the Insight, DK, and N.G. guides, I felt like I'd almost been there, and was reluctant to spend several thousand dollars on an actual as opposed to an armchair trip :-)). Overall, a well written, detailed, and enjoyable guide on that mysterious and fabled land Down Under.<br /><br />***Nerdy paleontological footnote. I have to say one more thing about Australia, which is that millions of years ago, I once read in an Encyclopedia Britannica article on Australia that there were 10-foot high, 600-pound carnivorous kangaroos that could probably have made short work of us puny humans. Fortunately, they all died out long before the arrival of the first Aborigines 60,000 years ago. :-)	2005-07-28
146334:US	45193257	R1MU2TFVSSTODL	0764571540	569330135	Frommer's Australia 2005 (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A few comments & some comparisons	I'm surprised this is only the second review on this book. I agree with the previous writer that one probably needs to read more than one travel guide on a country as big and diverse as Australia, but I would definitely give this guide more than just 3 stars. I think it deserves at least a four, but to sort of counteract his paltry three stars, I'm going to give it a 5. :-)<br /><br />For one thing, although he's right about the photos being rather sparse, having worked in the publishing field for a few years once, this is obviously intentional to keep the costs down. It more than compensates for that by having detailed, well written, informative text. Also, I have a recommendation below on how to approach these guides in terms of how to use the shorter, more photographic guides, versus the longer, less visual ones like Frommer's.<br /><br />For example, if you want beautifully illustrated, glossy photos of Oz, you can pick up the Insight guide, the Dorling Kindersley, or the Nat'l Geographic guide, all gorgeous guides visually, but they are five to seven dollars more than this one, and contain 200-300 fewer pages of text. They are truly beautiful, stunning, and graphically very well-designed and laid out books, and after looking at them, I almost felt like I didn't need to spend $4000 on a real trip to Oz anymore since the photo essays in these books were so good. You can take an armchair excursion for $30 for the DK book and save yourself several thousand dollars. Plus you don't need to sit in those cramped coach seats for 14 hours, which doesn't especially appeal to me since I'm 6'4\\" and I'm not exactly built for that.<br /><br />My recommendation here is to spend a couple of hours with any of these guides just looking at the great photos on the glossy pages in the cafe of a Border's or B & N bookstore, make mental notes on what you're interested in from there, and then buy and use the bigger but less lavishly illustrated Lonely Planet, Fodor's, or Frommer's guides to get more information. If you use this two-pronged approach you'll get the most for your money, or you could even buy one of each if you're flush with cash. The DK, Insight, and Nat'l Geographic guides are great too, I just happen to prefer getting two to three hundred pages worth of information and fewer photos for 30% less.<br /><br />For one thing, most of us have seen all the amazing pictures of Oz to begin with. And I'd seen several nature specials on Australia, and I didn't need to be convinced of how cool a country it is to visit from a natural beauty and photographic standpoint, or I wouldn't be thinking of plunking down thousands of dollars of my hard-earned money to fly half way around the world for a vacation in the first place. :-)<br /><br />Whichever way you decide to go, happy travel guide browsing and buying!ion. If you use this two-pronged approach you'll get the most for your money, or you could even buy one of each if you're flush with cash. The DK, Insight, and Nat'l Geographic guides are great too, I just happen to prefer getting two to three hundred pages worth of information and fewer photos for 30% less.    For one thing, most of us have seen all the amazing pictures of Oz to begin with. And I'd seen several nature specials on Australia, and I didn't need to be convinced of how cool a country it is to visit from a natural beauty and photographic standpoint, or I wouldn't be thinking of plunking down thousands of dollars of my hard-earned money to fly half way around the world for a vacation in the first place. :-)    Whichever way you decide to go, happy travel guide browsing and buying!	2005-07-27
149430:US	45193257	R17MW7RGEKIYJM	0671520563	678749765	Beam Me Up, Scotty	Books	4	37	40	N	N	A brief comment	I was 14 when the original Star Trek came out, and it was always the high point of the week for me. I wasn't exactly a nerd in school, although the science classes were my favorite, and so I thought the science and technology in Star Trek was the coolest stuff I had ever seen. In 1965 it was still the Cold War and we lived under the specter of possible global nuclear annihilation, and then along comes this little TV series, which showed that humans might finally abolish war and achieve peace (at least on earth), and that science and technology might create a better future for the human race. The combination of the positive message along with all the cool technology was an irresistible combination for me, and so I hardly ever missed a show.<br /><br />So although I've never been to a Trekkie conference or participated in any of the typical fandom events, I was a big fan of the original (and subsequent series) and so still count myself as a true \\"Trekkie.\\"<br /><br />With the recent passing of James Doohan last week this brief autobiobraphy will remain the one and only commentary on his life. The book concentrates more on Doohan's earlier life and his experiences and career up till Star Trek, including his poor childhood, his military service during WWII, and early acting experiences, and most people would probably prefer that he devoted more space to that. But Doohan was 10 years older than most of the other people in the cast, except for DeForest Kelly, and it was interesting to read his perspective on many of these events. He is honest in admitting his dislike for Capt. Kirk, which takes some courage--since that by itself might predispose some people to giving the book a one-star review.<br /><br />One thing I have to mention is that the scene where Scotty is explaining to Capt. Kirk when he finally punched the Klingon officer that started the fight in the bar in the episode, The Trouble with Tribbles, was considered the funniest scene in the whole series by the fans. I'm not going to go into anymore details than that or the dialog since I'm sure all the diehard fans here remember the scene from start to finish.<br /><br />I just had one other comment, which is that the character of Scotty was interesting in that basically what they did was to create a likable and charismatic nerd or geek. I've always found Americans' widespread disdain for nerds paradoxical since we are the most high-tech society on earth and are responsible for inventing and developing almost all the high-tech science, engineering, and medical technology, and we even win most of Nobel Prizes in science, and yet nerds and geeks still get no respect here, and are still widely derided. :-) Well, Scotty's amiable and charismatic personality both on and off the set changed all that and made it, if not fashionable to be a geek, at least acceptable.<br /><br />I will always remember Doohan, who was one of my personal favorites among the cast, and can only hope that he beams up to a better place than the world he left behind.into anymore details than that or the dialog since I'm sure all the diehard fans here remember the scene from start to finish.    I just had one other comment, which is that the character of Scotty was interesting in that basically what they did was to create a likable and charismatic nerd or geek. I've always found Americans' widespread disdain for nerds paradoxical since we are the most high-tech society on earth and are responsible for inventing and developing almost all the high-tech science, engineering, and medical technology, and we even win most of Nobel Prizes in science, and yet nerds and geeks still get no respect here, and are still widely derided. :-) Well, Scotty's amiable and charismatic personality both on and off the set changed all that and made it, if not fashionable to be a geek, at least acceptable.    I will always remember Doohan, who was one of my personal favorites among the cast, and can only hope that he beams up to a better place than the world he left behind.	2005-07-25
157975:US	45193257	R1T846NFRQ2LRC	0792238931	579329068	National Geographic Traveler: Australia	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Fine guide	This is my first national Geographic travel guide, from an interesting author. He once biked 10,000 miles around Australia, getting into remote areas where he was all alone, 100 miles from the nearest habitation just on his bicycle. As he went, his travel commentaries were published in the Australian papers, and the story was even picked up by the international newspapers at the time, making him something of an international celebrity as a travel writer. He now lives in Victoria and freelances for various Australian magazines and publications. It's more topically oriented the say, the DK guide, with perhaps fewer subjects covered but with more coverage per article. This is just my subjective impression but I offer it for what it's worth. The DK guide's look busier per page and this one is less.<br /><br />I learned some interesting things from this book. To mention just a few, Australia is the oldest continent, which is why the interior is so flat, and why it contains so many marsupial species, which died out elsewhere when the couldn't compete with the more advanced placental mammals. Culturally, it is a land of contrasts, with more modern looking cities with newer buildings than most American cities, which contrasts with the primitive aboriginal lifestyle which still exists to some extent in North Australia. And the rugged, macho image of Australian settlers, outbackers, and bushrangers contrasts with the fact that Sydney has an even higher gay and lesbian population than San Francisco, and their Gay and Lesbian parade is an international event.<br /><br />Before getting into the regional sections, there is a 72 page introduction that covers history, culture, the land, food, and drink, the arts, and flora and fauna. There's a lot of good info here and this is a longer introduction compared to most travel guides that I've seen.The remaining 299 pages cover the 8 major provinces or regions of Australia, including the island of Tasmania, which I was especially interested in. Each section includes the most popular sites and things to do, with beautiful photos and well written text.<br /><br />I am especially interested in Tasmania, and I learned that it is easy to see the sights there, as there is a 600-mile road that goes around the entire perimeter of the island, and most of the interesting sites can be accessed from it. As I am planning  a trip to Australia sometime soon, I was interested to learn this, since most of Australia is difficult to get to since the distances are so vast. Just Western Australia, still one of the most remote and sparsely settled regions, is three times the size of Texas.<br /><br />Sydney of course gets a special section by itself, and you could spend the rest of your life just seeing the sites there. I was most interested in Sydney, Tasmania, and also Cairns, the Great Barrier Reef, and the Kuranda Rainforest in the north as the three other main places to visit on my trip, and this guide was very helpful for researching that. Other helpful features of this guide include an Australia map on the inside front cover, a Sydney transit map, and many regional and town maps for you convenience. There is a quick table of contents on the inside front cover also. All in all a nice done and enjoyable guide to the fascinating land of Down Under.ection includes the most popular sites and things to do, with beautiful photos and well written text.    I am especially interested in Tasmania, and I learned that it is easy to see the sights there, as there is a 600-mile road that goes around the entire perimeter of the island, and most of the interesting sites can be accessed from it. As I am planning  a trip to Australia sometime soon, I was interested to learn this, since most of Australia is difficult to get to since the distances are so vast. Just Western Australia, still one of the most remote and sparsely settled regions, is three times the size of Texas.     Sydney of course gets a special section by itself, and you could spend the rest of your life just seeing the sites there. I was most interested in Sydney, Tasmania, and also Cairns, the Great Barrier Reef, and the Kuranda Rainforest in the north as the three other main places to visit on my trip, and this guide was very helpful for researching that. Other helpful features of this guide include an Australia map on the inside front cover, a Sydney transit map, and many regional and town maps for you convenience. There is a quick table of contents on the inside front cover also. All in all a nice done and enjoyable guide to the fascinating land of Down Under.	2005-07-19
161232:US	45193257	R34G04B6Q7RQHB	0789435314	557066171	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Australia	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great guide	This is a well written and nicely laid out and easy to use guide for Australia. I've used many of the different name-brand travel guides out there over the years, and the DK guides are fairly new to me, but I've been impressed with the ones I've seen.<br /><br />One nice thing they do is there's a \\"useability page\\" where the different features of the guide are described on a two- page spread. This makes it easy to learn the special features of the guide and also to use it. This is a good idea and more guide publishers should do it.<br /><br />The DK guides are always beautifully designed, with great photos and good use of space, text, and graphics on the page. They don't seem to cram too much or too little information onto a page.<br /><br />The different regions of Australia are covered in alphabetical order, with color coded tabs at the top of the page so you can skip to the next one if you want without having to look in the index.<br /><br />I was looking especially for information on Hobart and Tasmania, which most people seem to miss on their first trip to Oz, but I am planning on going there, and the section on that was very helpful.<br /><br />No one book on a country as big and diverse as Australia can cover everything, but this guide is a great place to at least start your research and learn about the most important places and sights you want to see and visit.<br /><br />The guide concludes with accommodations, restaurant recommentions, and advice for the traveller sections, including safety considerations (Australia is very crime free but the environment can be harsh and unforgiving), medical care, banking, driving, etc.  Overall this is another fine guide book from DK.	2005-07-18
187857:US	45193257	R2WA1APKUMPQNF	1841931977	636094025	Incredible Visual Illusions: You Won't Believe Your Eyes!	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Truly a visual feast	I'm not sure I'm reviewing exactly the right book here by Dr. Seckel, but it was the only current one that came up on my Amazon book search, so I thought I'd post the review here. Anyway, if it's the book I have, here are my comments, but I just wanted to mention that in case there's some confusion on my part (not unlikely given the state of my aging brain these days :-)).<br /><br />This book is truly a visual feast for the eyes, a fun book just to browse and look at or to learn about visual illusions. At over 200 pages, the author presents many illusions, which are divided up into different categories. I notice there are some new illusions that have been discovered, and the drawings for others have been improved on and refined even further since I last looked at a book on the subject probably 20 years ago. The illusions by Akiyoshi Kitaoka, a name new to me and a Japanese op artist and visual researcher, are especially noteworthy here. He has designed and improved many powerful versions of old illusions and has created one or two new ones himself, which is very impressive.<br /><br />Each chapter presents the plates showing each illusion, and at the back of the chapter in finer print there are brief, paraphraph long explanations of each illusion. The author also provides a brief, usually one-page long introduction to each chapter. The author is is a well known expert on visual and optical illusions who is a professor at Caltech or MIT, can't recall which at this point, but anyway, he's apparently very well known although I hadn't heard of him. But I was studying illusions 20 years ago, so he probably came along since.<br /><br />By the way, the theory about how each optical illusion works can be very simple, or very complex, sometimes requiring advanced neurophysiology and even mathematics and calculus to understand, so there's great variation in terms of the range of difficulty and complexity. For example, some of the movement illusions are thought to be due to inhibition between orientation sensitive cells in the neural cortical columns in the cerebral cortex. Other movement illusions, such as the moving pendulum illusion known as the Pulfrich illusion, are due to differing propagation times or time latencies between two different neural pathways, and the field distortion illusions can require advanced math just to describe.<br /><br />Anyway, that's as nerdy as I'm going to get in this review, and for now I'll just say it's a truly fascinating field, and I was fortunate enough to take a class in perceptual psychology in college with a terrific instructor, Dr. Eskildsen, who gave great lectures on the subject. (I had to give a plug for my old professor here, since he gave me an \\"A\\" in his class and he was a great prof. and it was a very enjoyable class).<br /><br />But getting back to the present volume, this is a very enjoyable book on truly fascinating subject. After reading the explanations in this book, you could pick up a more technical book on perceptual psychology and get more background in the subject if you wanted. There are a number of these around by well known professors and researchers covering the field of perceptual psychology and psychophysics, of which the theory of visual illusions is an important topic. I've noticed there are also some webpages devoted to different optical and visual illusions, and if you do a search on the subject, you can even find more information there. Whatever you decide to do, happing illusioning and good luck with your reading, and may all your visions in life be as pleasant as this book!tation sensitive cells in the neural cortical columns in the cerebral cortex. Other movement illusions, such as the moving pendulum illusion known as the Pulfrich illusion, are due to differing propagation times or time latencies between two different neural pathways, and the field distortion illusions can require advanced math just to describe.     Anyway, that's as nerdy as I'm going to get in this review, and for now I'll just say it's a truly fascinating field, and I was fortunate enough to take a class in perceptual psychology in college with a terrific instructor, Dr. Eskildsen, who gave great lectures on the subject. (I had to give a plug for my old professor here, since he gave me an \\"A\\" in his class and he was a great prof. and it was a very enjoyable class).    But getting back to the present volume, this is a very enjoyable book on truly fascinating subject. After reading the explanations in this book, you could pick up a more technical book on perceptual psychology and get more background in the subject if you wanted. There are a number of these around by well known professors and researchers covering the field of perceptual psychology and psychophysics, of which the theory of visual illusions is an important topic. I've noticed there are also some webpages devoted to different optical and visual illusions, and if you do a search on the subject, you can even find more information there. Whatever you decide to do, happing illusioning and good luck with your reading, and may all your visions in life be as pleasant as this book!	2005-06-28
189052:US	45193257	R3GJ0TFZKRFB98	068164303X	468054254	History and Conquests of Ancient Rome	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very readable, interesting, and informatitve	Considering this book was published by a no-name publisher (at least to me) and therefore probably destined for obscurity (I found the book for five bucks on the bargain table at Borders) this is an extremely well written and very interesting history on ancient Rome.<br /><br />Focusing on Rome's military strategy and tactics and the famous Roman legions, it traces Rome's rise and fall from its earliest victories against the Etruscans to the battles in Rome's declining years against the invading Visigoths and Ostrogoths in the 5th century A.D. The careers of Rome's political and military leaders were often inextricably linked despite the attempts by later emperors to limit the power of its officers and of the Praetorian Guard and generals, and this comes out again and again in the text. Successful generals often became emperor (as in the case of Octavius or Augustus, Caesar, and Marcus Aurelius), and the Roman legions were often more loyal to their generals than to Rome itself, which led to frequent political as well as physical conflicts, and this was a problem that Rome never truly solved.<br /><br />However Rome's political fortunes and social polity and progress waxed and waned over the centuries, its well trained, disciplined, aggressive, and ultimately stolid and dependably stalwart and patriotic legionnaires were ultimately the source of Rome's success and power throughout 800 years of its empire. The author points out several times that the Roman legionnaire's discipline and determination to succeed allowed them to triumph many times over otherwise superior forces or armies that were better equipped.<br /><br />The Romans often preferred simplicity to complexity in tactics and this seemed to work well for them. In contrast to the elaborate Greek siege engines of war, the Romans simply used the battering ram. Several times when a general realized his own army was at a strength and material disavantage relative to another city's army, he simply surrounded the city and starved them out. When another army was sent to lend assistance, the Romans frustrated them by using \\"bi-convallation,\\" another walling tactic by putting up a double fortification wall to block their progress, which also worked. All this made for interesting reading. The Roman development of the three-tiered column and advance as opposed to the earlier Macedonian phalanx is also discussed in detail.<br /><br />The author also includes many fascinating bits of information about ancient battle tactics. For example, he says that ancient cavalry really weren't that effective because until the stirrup was invented after 600 A.D., a charging horseman could not use a lance to attack with because the impact would unseat him from his horse. Hence, this strategy didn't find wide use until after 600 A.D., although it seems to me that a horse mounted swordsman would be the answer to this problem, as the ancient Arabs did and also the Mongols in their conquests.<br /><br />The author's style is very readable and never gets boring or too dry. The paper is nice, high gloss and there are many color illustrations and photos. This is a fine book on this aspect of Rome's history and one of the best volumes I've seen to get some background in the subject without reading one of the more encyclopedic and comprehensive books which are usually much drier and not as enjoyable to read.out. When another army was sent to lend assistance, the Romans frustrated them by using \\"bi-convallation,\\" another walling tactic by putting up a double fortification wall to block their progress, which also worked. All this made for interesting reading. The Roman development of the three-tiered column and advance as opposed to the earlier Macedonian phalanx is also discussed in detail.    The author also includes many fascinating bits of information about ancient battle tactics. For example, he says that ancient cavalry really weren't that effective because until the stirrup was invented after 600 A.D., a charging horseman could not use a lance to attack with because the impact would unseat him from his horse. Hence, this strategy didn't find wide use until after 600 A.D., although it seems to me that a horse mounted swordsman would be the answer to this problem, as the ancient Arabs did and also the Mongols in their conquests.    The author's style is very readable and never gets boring or too dry. The paper is nice, high gloss and there are many color illustrations and photos. This is a fine book on this aspect of Rome's history and one of the best volumes I've seen to get some background in the subject without reading one of the more encyclopedic and comprehensive books which are usually much drier and not as enjoyable to read.	2005-06-27
199094:US	45193257	R5NGIQZAMY82R	0679454438	148918425	The Road to Reality : A Complete Guide to the Laws of the Universe	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A little comment on a big book	At 1100 pages including the index, this is a truly massive book that is not for the faint of heart, if only for the fact that it weighs almost 4 pounds and your arms are as likely to get as tired holding it as your brain is reading it. :-) The mind boggles at how much work must have gone into such a work. None of it seems to be taken directly from his other works, and appears to have all be written de novo, essentially. I've read one or two of Penrose's other books, but this one is truly his magnum opus.<br /><br />A brief word about the level of difficulty--the mathematical level is, although not difficult, probably not that accessible to your average reader. I am basically a neurobiologist by academic training, but I had enough old and rusty advanced math to read the book okay, although it wasn't easy. But be forewarned, it's not exactly light reading.<br /><br />But except for Linus Pauling's similarly weighty text on chemistry, I can recall few other books as thorough and all encompassing as Penrose's in their attempt to present the full breadth and depth of a modern scientific discipline. If you have the mental mettle to stay with it to the very end, you should pat yourself on the back as you'll have a pretty good understanding of classical and modern physics in a way that few except the actual professionals do.<br /><br />Penrose's writing style is more approachable than the math. He often provides new insights and novel perspectives on old as well as new topics that make you glad you stuck it out and managed to make it to the next section. He's fond of providing sort of a \\"10,000 foot view\\" on the various theories and concepts, and if one approach doesn't work for you, he often develops the same idea from a different angle, and sometimes that approach clicks instead. But he also gets into enough of the little details and nitty gritty so that one doesn't feel it's lacking in depth or rigor either.<br /><br />If you have a philosophical bent, as some of the greatest physicists have had, Penrose provides the occasional speculation there, sometimes drawing from idealist philosophers such as Plato. Since Plato believed that the \\"copy\\" of external reality registered by the senses was superficial at best and inferior to the eternal and pure world of immaterial ideas, and that one could only understand and penetrate to the true nature of reality through using the mind and not the senses, Plato's theory of reality is perhaps not so different from the strange worlds of the microcosm and macrocosm that modern physics has revealed which are beyond what our unaided senses are able to reveal.<br /><br />I don't know what Prof. Penrose has planned after this but whatever it is, it'll be hard to top this extraordinary volume. In any case, I'll be looking for it to see what else he has up his sleeve in the way of more profound disquisitions and speculations on our universe.ose provides the occasional speculation there, sometimes drawing from idealist philosophers such as Plato. Since Plato believed that the \\"copy\\" of external reality registered by the senses was superficial at best and inferior to the eternal and pure world of immaterial ideas, and that one could only understand and penetrate to the true nature of reality through using the mind and not the senses, Plato's theory of reality is perhaps not so different from the strange worlds of the microcosm and macrocosm that modern physics has revealed which are beyond what our unaided senses are able to reveal.    I don't know what Prof. Penrose has planned after this but whatever it is, it'll be hard to top this extraordinary volume. In any case, I'll be looking for it to see what else he has up his sleeve in the way of more profound disquisitions and speculations on our universe.	2005-06-19
203871:US	45193257	R2HM74ZIXX1WIY	0760316813	760529177	The Complete John Deere	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Interesting and well written book on seemingly dull subject	This isn't exactly my typical reading, and as the author points out, tractors are admittedly not as exciting or glamorous as say, motorcycles or sports cars. As a typical guy, I'm more likely to pick up a book on fighter planes or aircraft carriers than on tractors. (I've read that even the Dalai Lama likes to do that). But as the author also points out, tractors embody a certain beauty of pure functionality and practicality and utilitarianism, and there is some value in that. The author himself is an automotive journalist who had written books in other areas before being approached about writing a book on John Deere tractors.<br /><br />The book documents the complete model line from the early 1900s to 2003, although the Deere company had been around for some years before that. During that period, Deere went from being mainly a maker of ploughs to being one of the most diverse agricultural machine and equipment makers in the world. Several times in its over 100 year history, the Deere company's dedication to providing quality tractors at a reasonable cost and their own hardworking corporate culture allowed them to persevere during the inevitable downturns and tough times in the agricultural industry and to survive when their competitors went under.<br /><br />Originally, Deere tried to design a new tractor, but although a fine tractor with many new features and advantages, that pushed the price up to around $1200 back in the teens, when the competition was selling a good tractor for only about $800, and they compromised by buying the Waterloo Boy Gasoline Engine company, which was already a respected and established tractor brand. This gave them the foothold in the tractor industry that they needed. Deere has often grown by acquiring quality companies to expand their product line and enter new markets.<br /><br />The book is organized into two-page spreads that illustrate and describe each model, giving history, features and specs, and how it came to be designed, and even why it was styled the way it was.<br /><br />Some of these models have passed into history but are still remembered fondly today by enthusiastic farmers, such as the venerable model D that served as a workhorse in several versions for almost 30 years. Over the years, the tractors become bigger, more powerful and more capable, giving them the ability to plough multiple rows at once, and the weight and traction to plough heavy, sticky soil (which is apparently a problem in some states for ploughs). One interesting figure of tractor performance was the ability of one model to plough a field for 59 cents per acre, including the driver's wages.<br /><br />Although diesel tractors are common today, Deere didn't introduce a diesel tractor until the early 50s, several years after competitors such as International Harvestor were already offering them. The diesel's low rev, high lugging ability and fuel economy made it a natural choice for tractor application. Interestingly enough, in the early years of tractors there were even models that could run both on gasoline and diesel.<br /><br />Once tractor engines reached a certain size, the long bore stroke and higher compression meant that hand cranking was impossible, and the tractors had small gasoline engines to warm up the block so they could be started.<br /><br />By the way, since we're discussing diesel engines here, I have a funny story for you where a diesel engine played a part--infact, a UFO sighting. One time a UFO was sighted by a guy driving along a highway next to a farm and his car stopped a few hundred feet from the UFO, which was hovering near a power pole. He tried to start the engine but it wouldn't catch.<br /><br />However, he noticed that over in the field next to him, there was a farmer ploughing his field and his tractor was all right and hadn't stalled. A few minutes later the UFO moved off and disappeared, and he was able to restart his car and get back to town. When he arrived, he related hisstory to the authorities.<br /><br />Out of all the UFO stories I've read, this is about the only one I find credible. That's because if the UFO was causing some sort of electrical disturbance, the guy's car would be more likely to stall than the tractor, because a gasoline engine has an electrical ignition system to fire its fuel, whereas the diesel does not. It doesn't need one, since it has a higher compression ratio and fires its fuel by the heat of compression. So the UFO could conceivably affect the car with the gasoline engine and not the diesel.<br /><br />So unless the guy was pulling some sort of elaborate practical joke, this is one of the few stories I can't debunk. Also, it's said the guy seemed geniunely puzzled by that fact, so perhaps he really didn't know the difference between a typical gasoline and diesel engine and wasn't simply acting and playing some sort of practical joke.<br /><br />Anyway, I apologize for the little digression, but I thought it was interesting that a diesel engine became the key point in a UFO sighting, and I'd like to think that the tractor in question was itself a John Deere. :-) So like I said, unless the guy was playing a subtle practical joke, maybe this one has some credibility. :-)<br /><br />But getting back to the book, overall, this is a well written and beautifully photographed and illustrated book on the complete Deere line, and I learned a lot of interesting facts about tractors and even agriculture and agribusiness to some extent from reading it. The diesel tractor, probably more than any other piece of farm machinery, has contributed to the U.S. becoming the biggest agricultural country in the world, and John Deere tractors played an important role in that success.ad, this is about the only one I find credible. That's because if the UFO was causing some sort of electrical disturbance, the guy's car would be more likely to stall than the tractor, because a gasoline engine has an electrical ignition system to fire its fuel, whereas the diesel does not. It doesn't need one, since it has a higher compression ratio and fires its fuel by the heat of compression. So the UFO could conceivably affect the car with the gasoline engine and not the diesel.    So unless the guy was pulling some sort of elaborate practical joke, this is one of the few stories I can't debunk. Also, it's said the guy seemed geniunely puzzled by that fact, so perhaps he really didn't know the difference between a typical gasoline and diesel engine and wasn't simply acting and playing some sort of practical joke.    Anyway, I apologize for the little digression, but I thought it was interesting that a diesel engine became the key point in a UFO sighting, and I'd like to think that the tractor in question was itself a John Deere. :-) So like I said, unless the guy was playing a subtle practical joke, maybe this one has some credibility. :-)    But getting back to the book, overall, this is a well written and beautifully photographed and illustrated book on the complete Deere line, and I learned a lot of interesting facts about tractors and even agriculture and agribusiness to some extent from reading it. The diesel tractor, probably more than any other piece of farm machinery, has contributed to the U.S. becoming the biggest agricultural country in the world, and John Deere tractors played an important role in that success.	2005-06-15
214817:US	45193257	RGFJOCJ4HWTVY	0002200643	470891589	Weather (Nature Company Guides)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fine intro book on weather	Please note that this review is actually for Burrough's other book, A Guide to the Weather, published by Fog City Books. I'm posting the review here since it doesn't come up on any of the other searches I tried. So I apologize for that in advance. But as this is a good book, I wanted to at least write about it here.<br /><br />This is a beautifully illustrated and attractive volume that recalls the DK books of recent years. It seems publishers are going all out on the design front to make their books more visually appealing than the competition's. Besides pure aesthetics, I'm not sure why this is, but no doubt it helps differentiate their books from the competition, since basic science books pretty much have to present the same information.<br /><br />Also, the books appear to be getting bigger, longer, and thicker. It's almost as if the publishers have concluded that for a special topic like this, it's the only book on meteorology the average person will ever buy, and so they're going all out to make their book bigger, better, more attractively designed and illustrated, than the competition, hoping they'll choose theirs over the others. Having worked in the publishing industry for 7 years, I have some background in book design, but that was 20 years ago, and things have probably changed a lot, but that's the impression I get from looking at these sorts of science books for the layman.<br /><br />This is actually written by a team of authors, so it's really a group effort. Each chapter is written by a particular author, although one author (whose name escapes me) writes more than one chapter. The book is divided into eight chapters covering the traditional meteorological topics such as typical weather phenomena, basic forecasting and prediction, and some history. More modern developments are covered in the sections on Adapting to the Weather, Evolution and Climate, Electronic Instrumentation, Seasonal Forecasts, and The Future of Forecasting.<br /><br />Climatology is covered in a nice section, which discusses the different types, from tropical to semi-arid to desert to arctic. Also, there are sections on Coping with Cold, Coping with Heat, and Coping with High Altitude, and on weather modification. (BTW, a little trivia here, the brother of fiction author, Kurt Vonnegut, is the inventor of cloud seeding and won the medal of the American Association of Meteorologists for this contribution).<br /><br />However, one subject I didn't see covered was on fronts, although perhaps I just missed that part, since I didn't read every section, since some of them were redundant for me and I already knew about.<br /><br />Most of the specific topics are covered in two-page spreads, with a number of these making up a chapter. These vary in length, the biggest one being the one on cloud types, which illustrates dozens of different types of clouds, several of which, unless you're a previous student of meteorology, you probably haven't heard of before, such as mammatus, kelvin, lenticular, pyrocumulus, and so on. The photo illustrations here are also excellent.<br /><br />One minor quip here; I didn't see a spread for noctilucent clouds, which are caused by meteoric dust in the upper atmosphere. These are usually only visible at dawn or dusk. Most meteors burn up in the Mesosphere, a warm layer about 50 miles up, above the stratosphere but below the ionosphere. However, that being said, this was the best coverage of cloud types I've seen so far. The author also explains where they occur and how and why they form.<br /><br />Almost one-third of the book is devoted to the section on \\"Weather in Action\\" and those chapters, which cover dew, fog, frost, clouds and cloud phenomena, storms, drought, floods, and optical effects in the atmosphere, such as coronas, halos, irridescence, sun dogs, etc.  Finally, there is a Resources section at the end with suggestions for the further reading, and an index and glossary.<br /><br />Overall, a well written and beautifully illustrated book on the weather, covering the subject in a thorough yet fairly non-technical way that should be accessible to most readers.n a thorough yet fairly non-technical way that should be accessible to most readers.	2005-06-06
219053:US	45193257	RD34TUAAMHPMW	0974193402	402883040	Warren Buffett Has Spoken. The Question Is, Who Is Listening?	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A brief comment	This is a compendium of Buffett's collected quotes and wisdom. If you're a fan of the famous \\"Oracle of Omaha,\\" this is probably a must have book. Buffett is famous for being the archetypal value investor, although there are misconceptions about that. He doesn't actually invest that much in the stock market, from what I gather. What he does is buy underpriced, valuable corporate assets, and merge them into Berkshire Hathaway, which has created the highly profitable business combine and partnership that exists today.<br /><br />Buffett's success there has been legendary. For example, $1000 invested in BH when it was formed in 1957 (the same year the S & P 500 index was formed), would be worth the amazing sum of $54,000,000 today. The next best stock for that period, (whose name temporarily escapes me), would only have yielded about $4,000,000. There is no better vindication of Buffett's ideas on investing and the stock market than that.<br /><br />For myself, I like to use Buffett's tried and true wisdom as a foil and sounding board for my own investment ideas, and if they don't stand up to his criteria, I usually (although not always) abandon them. When I don't, well, I'm usually wrong. :-) But anyway, this is a useful book for all Buffett fans and also various and sundry hangers on like myself.	2005-06-02
223596:US	45193257	R3TM3B4LGQ26GQ	0618246983	254276554	The Best American Science and Nature Writing 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent science writing	This is an enjoyable as well as very informative collection of essays on science and nature. The book contains a couple of dozen articles on different topics, too many to go into here, so I will limit my comments to discussing just a few of them. But if you're considering purchasing the book, you could look at the table of contents and some of the articles themselves to get a better idea of what topics the articles cover before buying.<br /><br />I hadn't read a book of nature writing like this in several years (I pride myself on reading the more technical literature usually), but time constraints impelled me to take a look, and I was glad I did, as you will find some excellent articles and science writing here. But be aware that this is not the same as reading, say, the articles in Scientific American, let alone the more technical literature. They aren't at the same level of rigor or scientific depth and detail. If you have the sort of fortitude necessary to stick with S.A. for year after year, you probably don't need books like this. But for the average reader, this collection of essays, and the overall series, is an enjoyable and readable way to keeps tabs on some of the important developments going on in science.<br /><br />The essays vary a bit in level of difficulty and in the topics covered, and the subjects range from scientific ethics to modern cosmology. One is even a brief (and somewhat racy) bio of Watson, the co-discoverer of DNA, who basically admits that getting laid is his top priority when he isn't thinking about science. :-) It also discusses his often strained relationships with his peers; for example, in his biography he once remarked that he had never seen Crick in a modest mood. His acerbic wit and tongue therefore didn't exactly endear him to his fellow scientists, and after he got passed over for promotion at Harvard, he left for Cold Spring Harbor, and the rest, as they say, is history.<br /><br />Most of the essays, however, aren't such intimate portrayals of famous or controversial scientists, but they're still worth reading :-). For example, the amazing career of the driven and intrepid Dr. Francis Moore, who pioneered burn therapy and surgery and many other treatments, and often bucked the traditional medical establishment and medical wisdom to create his advances, should be an inspiration to any young physician. The essay on cosmology and parallel universe theory discusses some of the mind-boggling discoveries and speculations being made about our universe there. And the essay by Robert Sapolsky on Toxoplasma gondii, a protozoan organism that for some reason infects the brains of more Europeans than Americans, but usually doesn't cause any problems, was interesting too, in its amazingly specific effects on its other hosts (it can live in rats and cats also, but can only reproduce in cats). For those of you who don't know Sapolski, he is one of the most entertaining science writers I've encountered recently, besides being a noted neuroscientist.<br /><br />Overall, a fine collection of essays drawn from diverse magazines and sources by some of the top science and nature writers today.mous or controversial scientists, but they're still worth reading :-). For example, the amazing career of the driven and intrepid Dr. Francis Moore, who pioneered burn therapy and surgery and many other treatments, and often bucked the traditional medical establishment and medical wisdom to create his advances, should be an inspiration to any young physician. The essay on cosmology and parallel universe theory discusses some of the mind-boggling discoveries and speculations being made about our universe there. And the essay by Robert Sapolsky on Toxoplasma gondii, a protozoan organism that for some reason infects the brains of more Europeans than Americans, but usually doesn't cause any problems, was interesting too, in its amazingly specific effects on its other hosts (it can live in rats and cats also, but can only reproduce in cats). For those of you who don't know Sapolski, he is one of the most entertaining science writers I've encountered recently, besides being a noted neuroscientist.     Overall, a fine collection of essays drawn from diverse magazines and sources by some of the top science and nature writers today.	2005-05-29
237911:US	45193257	R3G7ZAAJMD7PH7	0809228343	87953134	Ultimate Training for the Martial Arts	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another collection of good articles	This is one of the Ultimate Guides that Inside Kung Fu Magazine has been publishing in recent years. There is so much infrmation here that it would be difficult to summarize, so I will focus on three articles in different areas that I found most helpful.<br /><br />Before I do that, I want to say that the articles run the full gamut, covering almost every martial art you can think of, from external to internal training, conditioning, diet, health, exercise, technique training, practical applications, strategy, weapons, advanced theory, internal energy, martial arts energetics, and the usual articles on various styles. Often by recognized experts, the level of difficulty varies quite a bit and also in coverage and depth of detail, but that's to be expected in a book like this. Someone with an already extensive background in the martial arts might find the average level of the articles a bit too basic, but overall, there's a lot of good information here. (Besides, someone that expert should probably be writing their own articles and publishing them in this book or similar books).<br /><br />The first is Tim Tackett's \\"Wing Chun Meets JKD.\\" Having recently attended one of Tim's seminars (and also at age 53 having recently received my own instructor certification in Kali/JKD, I read his article first. I am also a karate, kung fu, and kali-escrima instructor, so I of course was interested in any articles on those subjects.<br /><br />Since much of my martial arts career has been spent training on my own, I've always liked forms and the idea of a dummy set, although I've never had a chance to learn it, out of the many forms I've learned. Tim discribes how Bruce developed his own version of the form (he never quite finished the actual form). Later, when Inosanto visited Hong Kong he finally had the opportunity to learn the whole form. Upon returning, he then developed a 125-move JKD form consisting of Bruce Lee's modified Wing Chun set and the boxing phase of JKD.<br /><br />Tim also mentioned that JKD isn't comprised of 26 different arts, as has been claimed. It is mainly based on Wing Chun, western boxing, and western fencing. As always, Bruce was a master of assimilation and simplification, which the ability to strip everything down to the essentials, hence his famous dictum about using what works, disposing of what doesn't, and simplifying what you have learned.<br /><br />The second article I wanted to mention was June Castro's on boxing ringmanship. Miss Castro does an excellent job discussing the different skills and ring strategies, which consist mainly of using the center, using the corners, and using the ropes, and how different fighters may try to take advantage of them, how to defend yourself accordingly, and then use them to your advantage.<br /><br />I am also a fan of Marco Ruas, whom the redoubtable Norm Leff discusses in the third article I wanted to mention. Master Leff discusses in detail Ruas's training and diet regimen and how he trains for a fight. However, at age 53, I would be happy to accomplish 1/5 of what Marco does in a day, as he often trains for 5-6 hours, 6 days a week.<br /><br />Overall, a fine collection of articles on many interesting topics in the martial arts.prised of 26 different arts, as has been claimed. It is mainly based on Wing Chun, western boxing, and western fencing. As always, Bruce was a master of assimilation and simplification, which the ability to strip everything down to the essentials, hence his famous dictum about using what works, disposing of what doesn't, and simplifying what you have learned.  The second article I wanted to mention was June Castro's on boxing ringmanship. Miss Castro does an excellent job discussing the different skills and ring strategies, which consist mainly of using the center, using the corners, and using the ropes, and how different fighters may try to take advantage of them, how to defend yourself accordingly, and then use them to your advantage.  I am also a fan of Marco Ruas, whom the redoubtable Norm Leff discusses in the third article I wanted to mention. Master Leff discusses in detail Ruas's training and diet regimen and how he trains for a fight. However, at age 53, I would be happy to accomplish 1/5 of what Marco does in a day, as he often trains for 5-6 hours, 6 days a week.   Overall, a fine collection of articles on many interesting topics in the martial arts.	2005-05-17
252092:US	45193257	RU637H6LBB1QT	1594200459	697870179	The End of Poverty: Economic Possibilities for Our Time	Books	3	15	20	N	N	A few problems	If there is a more tireless and indefatigable advocate for the poor and downtrodden, and a more vigorous campaigner fighting the evils of poverty in dozens of countries around the world than Mr. Sachs, I don't know who it is. Sach's book provides a sweeping and compelling overview of the dire effects of poverty and the possibilities for aid and assistance, economic reform, and development in third world countries, discussing the successes and failures in many countries and how and why they either failed or succeeded.<br /><br />Before I get into the rest of my review, I should say something about my own prior and perhaps naive views on foreign aid. Before reading Mr. Sach's book, I believed in helping poor countries as much as possible and putting as much money into it as one could afford. Unfortunately, after reading his book, I was somewhat dismayed to find that so much of what he said could just as easily be used to argue against it. So, like a number of the reviewers here, although I agree that some sort of action is necessary, most of these solutions unfortunately still seem to come down to throwing more money at what in many cases have already turned out to be bottomless pits, lining local dictator's and beaurocrat's pockets and accomplishing very little else in the way of long-term gain. One shudders at the number of countries in Africa where aid is desperately needed and yet so little seems to reach the actual populace, not to mention several former Soviet countries, such as Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, and countries like Cambodia, that have similar if not worse situations.<br /><br />One of Mr. Sach's favorite countries, for example, is Ethiopia, one of the world's poorest nations, where less than 1 dollar is spent per year per person on medical aid. However, Ethiopia still has not come to grips with its population problem, and every generation or about 20 years, there is another famine and the world sends vast amounts of food and money to rescue the starving populace.<br /><br />This happened back in the 60s, and again in the 80s. That one I remember well because of all the TV ads featuring actors/actresses like Sally Struthers, one of the stars from the TV sitcom, All in the Family. While this generosity is commendable, nothing had changed since the 60s, and Ethiopia was again starving as a result of a couple of years of crop failures. Again, the U.S. and the world again sent huge amounts of aid, which did save many lives, but again, it just postpones Ethiopia's need to deal with the population issue in a more realistic and timely way.<br /><br />Although I learned much about the different circumstances and strengths and weaknesses of many countries around the world in regard to their economic problems and opportunities, sometimes the book tantalizes as much as it explains. For example, Mr. Sachs discusses the amazing progress China has achieved, contrasting that with the failure of many Latin American countries to continue to progress, not to mention the problems of Russia. He attributes the success of China to the development of TVEs (township and village enterprises), which became small but dynamic production and profit centers, as opposed to the inefficient Soviet state operations, and the failure to develop true capitalistic institutions where profits are plowed back into capital spending, growth, and expansion rather than into the new elite industrial leadership's pockets.<br /><br />However, this doesn't really explain why local village enterprises in China really succeeded over the larger state concerns in Russia. Larger operations enjoy certain advantages such as economies of scale and access to governmental funds for loans. Deciding to follow up on the question, I did a Google search and came up with the following excerpt from the United Nations Industrial Development Organization document number 4536 (I apologize for the long quote but it provides info that Sachs leaves out, and also, I'm going somewherewith all of this):<br /><br />\\"China's township and village enterprises (TVE) are rural, collective economic organizations established at the township or village level. They also include the city branches of township enterprises. TVEs had become a major component of the Chinese economy, contributing significantly to GDP, employing large numbers of people and contributing to social development.<br /><br />The development of TVEs has varied across China's regions and economic sectors. TVEs in some sectors are hi-tech or export oriented, and they face regional and international competition. However, TVEs in the brick, cement, coking and metal-casting sub-sectors were set up primarily to absorb rural labour, to provide essential low cost products, and to contribute to improving livelihoods in a localised area. In these sectors TVEs relied heavily on direct interventions from local governments for access to resources and marketing opportunities. As a result of the limited exposure of TVEs in these sectors to the market and to market forces, development in these sectors was characterized by expansion, without technology and technique development.<br /><br />Despite their general dynamism and growth, TVEs still have many disadvantages compared to state owned enterprises (SOE). A key one is the shortage of workers having significant professional skills. Another is the lack of access to finance. These gaps are also found between TVEs in Central China and those in the coastal regions.<br /><br />While the building material, coking and metal casting sectors provide key inputs to China's economic development and have been a major contributor to China's economic growth over the last 20 years (TVE provide more than half of the total output from these sectors), the level of technology in these sectors is low. Accordingly, TVEs in these sectors are characterized by high pollution levels. Notably, these four TVE sectors account for a staggering one sixth of China's total emissions of CO2. Their average relative energy consumption is 30% to 60% higher than state-owned-enterprise sector using currently available technologies. In addition, the low quality of their products leads to additional energy inefficiencies in product use (notably, poor building materials have low insulation levels, leading to heat loss in buildings). TVE are also major contributors to local air and water pollution and health hazards for employees.\\"<br /><br />Unfortunately, the impression I get from this article in the way of explanation is that this apparent miracle won't last. The most likely explanation to me for the success of the TVEs is that the interior of China was so backward (it consisting mainly of literally of tens of thousands of small and relatively isolated villages) is that almost any improvement in industrial capability and capacity was a big improvement over what had existed before in the region. The same thing happened in the Soviet Union, where initially industrial output increased due to some fairly simple and basic improvements in manufacturing technology and production. Like the TVE's, they also initially seemed a big success, only later peaking and going into decline. However, the interior of both countries was so backward industrially that almost any improvement was likely to succeed in the short term, whether it was more collectivized as in the case of the Soviet Union, or smaller scale, more private enterprise type operations as in the case of TVE's.<br /><br />My point, unfortunately, is that we still don't know whether TVE's will truly succeed or not in the long run, as much of the profit can also be explained by the low cost of labor. If labor is cheap enough, you can still make a profit not matter how inefficient and low tech and non-competitive your operation is.<br /><br />So overall, although I applaud Mr. Sach's willingness to be an advocate for eliminating poverty around the world, we still don't really know what we're doing in many cases economically, and the practical problems are still daunting. Development economics is itself a developing academic area (by the way, John Kenneth Galbraith, an advisor to many U.S. presidents, did his Ph.D. dissertation on farm economics, although he became known mainly for his book, The Age of Affluence), and hopefully we will continue to learn more and be able to apply more rational and scientific solutions to the elimination of poverty in the future.<br /><br />In the short-term, however, our efforts continue to be hampered by inefficient and corrupt governments and inefficient aid organizations--although I still believe that we must continue to provide help despite the small percentage of it that ultimately reaches those most in need.than state-owned-enterprise sector using currently available technologies. In addition, the low quality of their products leads to additional energy inefficiencies in product use (notably, poor building materials have low insulation levels, leading to heat loss in buildings). TVE are also major contributors to local air and water pollution and health hazards for employees.\\"    Unfortunately, the impression I get from this article in the way of explanation is that this apparent miracle won't last. The most likely explanation to me for the success of the TVEs is that the interior of China was so backward (it consisting mainly of literally of tens of thousands of small and relatively isolated villages) is that almost any improvement in industrial capability and capacity was a big improvement over what had existed before in the region. The same thing happened in the Soviet Union, where initially industrial output increased due to some fairly simple and basic improvements in manufacturing technology and production. Like the TVE's, they also initially seemed a big success, only later peaking and going into decline. However, the interior of both countries was so backward industrially that almost any improvement was likely to succeed in the short term, whether it was more collectivized as in the case of the Soviet Union, or smaller scale, more private enterprise type operations as in the case of TVE's.     My point, unfortunately, is that we still don't know whether TVE's will truly succeed or not in the long run, as much of the profit can also be explained by the low cost of labor. If labor is cheap enough, you can still make a profit not matter how inefficient and low tech and non-competitive your operation is.    So overall, although I applaud Mr. Sach's willingness to be an advocate for eliminating poverty around the world, we still don't really know what we're doing in many cases economically, and the practical problems are still daunting. Development economics is itself a developing academic area (by the way, John Kenneth Galbraith, an advisor to many U.S. presidents, did his Ph.D. dissertation on farm economics, although he became known mainly for his book, The Age of Affluence), and hopefully we will continue to learn more and be able to apply more rational and scientific solutions to the elimination of poverty in the future.     In the short-term, however, our efforts continue to be hampered by inefficient and corrupt governments and inefficient aid organizations--although I still believe that we must continue to provide help despite the small percentage of it that ultimately reaches those most in need.	2005-05-05
257631:US	45193257	RMAXDOOD3HKEG	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A brief comment	Using philosophical methods of analysis derived from areas such as ordinary language philosophy and modern analytical philosophy, prof. Frankfurt takes us on a tour of bullsh_t in all its diverse and dubious linguistic and cultural glory, or perhaps infamy. Two philosophers whose ideas serve as the philosophical background and framework for his approach are Ludwig Wittgenstein and Max Black (whose essay on Korzybski and General Semantics is a classic). Frankfurt also discusses St. Augustine's breakdown of lies into 8 different types, which is interesting as well. As the professor notes, bullsh_t in its various forms seems to be almost ubiquitous in our society these days, and as a result, he came to the conclusion that a more rigorous philosophical consideration and analysis of the issue was warranted.<br /><br />The result was this fun little book. In the Age of Spin where political and social issues are manipulated and promulgated according to the desired end rather than for their real truth or validity, prof. Frankfurt's little book is a breath of fresh air, incisively cutting through the pervasive propagandistic miasma of our time to expose it for what it really is--a culture pervaded by spin and spin doctors, self-serving political pundits, dubious and unscientific beliefs, subjective bias masquerading as objective truth, hypocritical hornblowing hacks with hidden agendas, masterfully manipulative, mudslinging muckrakers of mass deception (okay, enough alliteration--sorry about that :-)), and in general, a surfeit of unrepentent and unrequitted bullsh_tters extraordinaire who the professor ably skewers on his philosophical petard. This book is a sure tonic for all those tired of our culture's pervasive pandering of bullsh_t in all its most insidious and pungent forms.<br /><br />***Philosophical footnote: In Wittgenstein's famous book, the Tractatus Logico Philophicus, he says at one point, \\"Whereof one cannot speak, whereof that one must remain silent.\\" Unfortunately, too many bullsh_tters don't heed Wittgenstein's sage advice, hence the need for prof. Frankfurt's timely, concise, and well done little book. :-)ny bullsh_tters don't heed Wittgenstein's sage advice, hence the need for prof. Frankfurt's timely, concise, and well done little book. :-)	2005-05-01
262107:US	45193257	R31W8Y7L7E6KT8	1401300278	162539738	How to Build a Tin Canoe: Confessions of an Old Salt	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A brief comment	If you're a fan of nature or outdoors writing, especially the sort that provides a good deal of local color, you'll probably enjoy this book. It reminded me of William W. Warner's wonderful little book, Beautiful Swimmers, which was about the blue crab and other fisherman of the Chesapeake Bay. (By the way, I can highly recommend Warner's book as it is not as well known as it should be, but it is a much loved classic among those who do. Try reading the reviews here on it and you'll see what I mean. They're practically all rave reviews).<br /><br />But getting back to White's book, White recounts the life of a Georgia small boat builder and waterman from his earliest childhood to his more mature years. White was practically born building small boats, and it shows, as his knowledge of small boat building and craftsmanship is as broad and deep as the waters he has plied for decades in his homemade canoes.<br /><br />But the book isn't all about boat building, as White is a first-rate raconteur and tells many funny stories and anecdotes along the way, in addition to giving you his down-home philosophy about people, boats, and life in general. Overall an enjoyable read and if you follow other authors in the genre, like Randy Wayne White, you'll probably want to try Robb White (no relation as far as I know) too.	2005-04-27
271917:US	45193257	R49IRMBKQCRCN	1581331371	805287922	The Tiger/Crane Form of Hung Gar Kung-Fu	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good but see comments below	First, a word of warning. The video doesn't present the form, it is simply video number 3 from Kong's Hung Gar series presenting somemore of the basic techiques.<br /><br />However, the book on the form is good and was a groundbreaking effort at the time, as it was the first ever to appear in English documenting the form. It should be noted that this version of the form is from the Lam Sai Wing lineage, which means it has been modified somewhat from the original form as created by Wong Fei Hung. I practice the Wong version, and prefer that as it is the unchanged version, but have no problem with those who practice this version.<br /><br />The Tiger/Crane form of Hung Gar kung-fu is one of the great forms, both technically and historically. It is said that the applications of this one long form (it is about 150 moves long) are almost infinite and that one really doesn't need anymore than this to be able to defend oneself. It is also quite common for many students to stop with just the first empty-handed form, Gung Gi Fuk Fu Kuen, which is well over 200 moves, as just learning that is a significant achievement, and never even get to the tiger/crane form.<br /><br />The tiger/crane set has become synonymous with Hung Gar, and Hung Gar is sometimes called the tiger/crane style. This is only partially correct however, as the Hung Gar system developed into a five animal system after that and the five shapes form, which is even more advanced and complex, is actually more representative of the style at this point, since it contains all the 5 animals techniques. However, the tiger/crane form does represent and symbolize the ying/yang aspect of Hung Gar with the addition of the White Crane techniques to the original Tiger Claw kung fu. However, no one knows who created the 5 shapes form, although it was undoubtably some unknown but brilliant practitioner.<br /><br />Many authorities consider Hung Gar, of all the extant styles, to be the one closest to the original Shaolin Temple boxing (and depending on which authority you consult, the total number of kung-fu styles ranges from 300 to 1000). While we may never know for sure which style is the most authentic or the closest to the original style, this form is certainly an important contribution to the art. Hung Gar was also the style practiced by most of the boxers who helped overthrow the Ching Manchurian dynasty, so it even has political significance in addition to its importance as a fighting art, and also means Hung Gar was battle tested and found to work in the past.<br /><br />Despite the controversy surrounding Kong about some comments he made about Wong Fei Hong vs. Lam Sai Wing, I believe Kong is still a top exponent of this style of kung-fu, and he presents the form with very clear photo sequences. Another plus is he includes photos showing the practical self-defense applications of the more important sections and sequences. Of course, one can't learn kung fu from a book, but as there are several masters putting out videos on the forms, such as Masters David Lee and Yee, a video is the next best thing to a real instructor, and I know a number of people who are undergoing this sort of \\"distance learning,\\" supplemented with hands-on training at the home school.<br /><br />So overall, an excellent book and the only one on the subject, and even if you're not a kung-fu practitioner, an interesting addition to your martial-arts library.ple boxing (and depending on which authority you consult, the total number of kung-fu styles ranges from 300 to 1000). While we may never know for sure which style is the most authentic or the closest to the original style, this form is certainly an important contribution to the art. Hung Gar was also the style practiced by most of the boxers who helped overthrow the Ching Manchurian dynasty, so it even has political significance in addition to its importance as a fighting art, and also means Hung Gar was battle tested and found to work in the past.<br /><br />Despite the controversy surrounding Kong about some comments he made about Wong Fei Hong vs. Lam Sai Wing, I believe Kong is still a top exponent of this style of kung-fu, and he presents the form with very clear photo sequences. Another plus is he includes photos showing the practical self-defense applications of the more important sections and sequences. Of course, one can't learn kung fu from a book, but as there are several masters putting out videos on the forms, such as Masters David Lee and Yee, a video is the next best thing to a real instructor, and I know a number of people who are undergoing this sort of \\"distance learning,\\" supplemented with hands-on training at the home school.<br /><br />So overall, an excellent book and the only one on the subject, and even if you're not a kung-fu practitioner, an interesting addition to your martial-arts library.	2005-04-19
274242:US	45193257	R2S0VRCT5V6P24	0742511677	967880647	A Case Against Accident and Self-Organization	Books	2	8	43	N	N	A few comments	First, one problem with this book is that it is open to the same objections as the speculative science it attempts to disprove. The Creationists and Creation By Design proponents say that evolution and cosmology is \\"just a theory\\" and that random chance can't account for our universe, and that the Biblical theory is just as \\"scientific.\\" Perhaps, but the only \\"proof\\" that the Biblical theory is true is  unprovable assumption and claim that the Bible is revealed truth and therefore unquestionable. However, the books of the Bible were written thousands of years ago, and in many cases, no one really knows who wrote them, and where the original stories such as the Creation came from. They could be traditional Hebrew myths, or they could be the word of God. However, no one really knows. Why this is thought to be just as justifiable and valid an argument as the scientific theories which explain far more about the nature of reality is never really made clear.<br /><br />The second problem is the book's attempt to call into question all the science in the first place. You can't call evolution and cosmology bad science and then say that the Bible is exempt from the same requirements for verifiability and empirical evidence. You can't have it both ways. Either you accept science as a valid means of getting knowledge about the universe (and science has enabled us to learn far more than anything in the Bible, as the Biblical \\"theory\\" of creation is no theory at all and basically tells us nothing except that God created the universe) or you don't, in which case, you can't use real (or even bogus) science to bolster the Biblical claims to truth or exempt them from the same requirements for verification.<br /><br />Thirdly, it seems hypocritical to me for Creationists to be willing to accept all the many advantages of science, such as technology, modern medicine, and all the modern advances and conveniences, both large and small, that have come from that, while refusing to accept the one or two areas, such as evolution and cosmology, which conflict with their beliefs.<br /><br />Finally, my main problem with this whole \\"scientific\\" approach to religion is that it attempts to rationalize that which is ultimately a matter of faith, and something which transcends human reason and science.<br /><br />Here, I agree with Paul Tillich, probably the greatest Christian theologian, on this issue, which is that attempting to do this debases faith on the one hand, by making it subject to human standards, and debases science on the other hand, by making it a matter of faith rather than objective and empirical evidence and reasoning. Science and faith are two totally different things and never the twain shall meet, because one relates to the spiritual world which transcends our understanding, and the other relates to the ordinary world of mundane reality. People who attempt to rationalize faith do a serious disservice to it. Either you have faith or you don't. That's why it's called \\"faith, and whether the science itself is true or not, has nothing to do with it.reas, such as evolution and cosmology, which conflict with their beliefs.     Finally, my main problem with this whole \\"scientific\\" approach to religion is that it attempts to rationalize that which is ultimately a matter of faith, and something which transcends human reason and science.     Here, I agree with Paul Tillich, probably the greatest Christian theologian, on this issue, which is that attempting to do this debases faith on the one hand, by making it subject to human standards, and debases science on the other hand, by making it a matter of faith rather than objective and empirical evidence and reasoning. Science and faith are two totally different things and never the twain shall meet, because one relates to the spiritual world which transcends our understanding, and the other relates to the ordinary world of mundane reality. People who attempt to rationalize faith do a serious disservice to it. Either you have faith or you don't. That's why it's called \\"faith, and whether the science itself is true or not, has nothing to do with it.	2005-04-17
281030:US	45193257	RM97S88CTTD7U	1581600046	91339090	Medieval Swordsmanship: Illustrated Methods And Techniques	Books	5	7	14	N	N	Excellent	Despite the controversy and negative reviews here, I found this and the author's other book excellent as introductions to the field, and am very satisfied with them. Many of the negative reviews appear to be by authors of other books who are just dissing Clements.<br /><br />I am mostly involved in the Japanese and Chinese sword arts rather than the western ones, but I do have at least a basic background there, and I am an instructor in kali/escrima, which is descended from and influenced by Spanish espada y daga. So I bought this book to get somemore background on that. I have also seen many battles and duels by SCA and Scottish Games recreators who have presumably researched this, and am familiar with the Wallenstein Codex, Capo Fero's and Carozzo's manuals, the Talhofer, and so on.<br /><br />One reviewer says that book doesn't really tell you how to fence, and that it will take much more than this book to do that. However, the author tells you that in the introduction. The book does several important things, though, which are to familiarize you with the nomenclature, the typical method or normative use of the swords and weapons, the many types of weapons, basic techniques and strategy, when and where they developed, and something of the overall and more detailed evolution of the weaponry and tactics.<br /><br />In short, whether the book tells you exactly how to fight is pretty moot since the author admits that would require many separate manuals just by itself, and the book is still excellent as an introduction and overview of the entire field. To me this is no different from the many karate and kung fu and jiu jitsu books I have, most of which are good for giving you the basic techniques and knowledge, but far more study is needed in order to truly become well informed or even an expert. This book is no different and still contains much useful information.<br /><br />However, when you consider that Clements's detractors aren't taking into consideration the fact that most videos do a far superior job of showing the true body mechanics and movement of a martial art than any book can, their own books are vulnerable to the same objection. No book can match even the most rudimentary and basic video on martial arts, and there are now hundreds if not thousands of excellent and very detailed martial arts videos out there, many by very famous and even internationally renowed masters.<br /><br />Furthermore, one can buy these videos on e Bay used for a fraction of the new price, and which is usually less than that of a martial arts book which conveys far less.<br /><br />The upshot of all this is that books on the martial arts are now best designed to give the reader other information besides actual movement and body mechanics and kinesiology, such as theory, strategy, fine points of technique, historical information, and so on. By that token, I sometimes wonder why people are continuing to write books on the martial arts at all, considering how superb some of these videos are (I've reviewed many of these myself).<br /><br />Anyway, all that having been said, this is still a very informative and detailed introduction to the field and well worth the price, and I wanted to dispell some of the criticisms by previous reviewers whose own books are basically subject to the same criticisms.rior job of showing the true body mechanics and movement of a martial art than any book can, their own books are vulnerable to the same objection. No book can match even the most rudimentary and basic video on martial arts, and there are now hundreds if not thousands of excellent and very detailed martial arts videos out there, many by very famous and even internationally renowed masters.    Furthermore, one can buy these videos on e Bay used for a fraction of the new price, and which is usually less than that of a martial arts book which conveys far less.    The upshot of all this is that books on the martial arts are now best designed to give the reader other information besides actual movement and body mechanics and kinesiology, such as theory, strategy, fine points of technique, historical information, and so on. By that token, I sometimes wonder why people are continuing to write books on the martial arts at all, considering how superb some of these videos are (I've reviewed many of these myself).    Anyway, all that having been said, this is still a very informative and detailed introduction to the field and well worth the price, and I wanted to dispell some of the criticisms by previous reviewers whose own books are basically subject to the same criticisms.	2005-04-11
285716:US	45193257	RFZ4PT0THFC2C	0873649192	453167223	Renaissance Swordsmanship: The Illustrated Book Of Rapiers And Cut And Thrust Swords And Their Use	Books	5	12	23	N	N	A few comments on the controversy	First I should mention something of my own background. I am primarily a student and teacher of Asian martial arts in which I hold black belts in several, have been studying for over 40 years, and been a teacher for over 35 years.<br /><br />I've also studied iaido and the Samurai sword, and am an instructor in kali/escrima, which specializes in knife and stick combat, but didn't have nearly as much background in European and Renaissance fencing methods and bought this book to further my knowledge of that. I'm also familiar with the Wallenstein Codex and the Talhofer and have observed many sparring matches by those interested in reviving the old European methods by the SCA and so on, and have read quite a few articles on European swordsmanship in the few journals that are devoted to that.<br /><br />I noted the controversy here about the book, some reviewers claiming that Clements doesn't really discuss how the swords were actually used, and that what he does mention will just get you killed. As I'm not expert in this area as in the Asian arts that I teach, I don't really know who is right, but I thought I would make a few comments on that based on the similarities I noted between Asian and Pacific Rim arts and the western methods.<br /><br />First of all, despite the negative comments here, for a comparative beginner like myself this book still seemed an excellent introduction and overview of the subject, as it covered the many different styles of European sword, from broadsword to cut and thrust to rapier, discussing the similarities and differences between the different styles and how they evolved. I still learned which swords were used in which historical period, and which styles were developed when, although I understand the full evolution and development isn't understood and there are many gaps in our knowledge. The methods discussed also seem very common-sensical and practical and show they are really not that mysterious or even difficult.<br /><br />One thing that struck me right away was the many similarities between Pacific rim and Asian methods. On page 77 Clements shows the angles of attack. These are exactly the same as in the Filipino arts and in the Samurai sword. The footwork is also very similar, although there are some differences. The Filipino arts tend to emphasize triangular footwork and stepping off at a 45 degree angle, and that also occurs in Japanese iaido, although in kendo it tends to be more linear as in the rapier or epee or foil methods that I've seen. The sword and dagger and double rapier methods are also not that different from Musashi's nitin-ryu or famous double-sword style.<br /><br />In the Wallenstein Codex that I was looking at recently, I noticed methods for closing and disarming and even using the pomel or butt end of the sword for infighting that are exactly the same as in kali/escrima and iaido. For example, in the Eishin-ryu iaido style that I study, there is a waza or technique called zentsumyoken, where is exactly the same as the one in the Codex. Also, in the accounts of the several matches between Florentine masters and English masters recounted by one of the Masters of Defence that I read (unfortunately I don't remember the title of the book, but many of you probably know what I'm talking about), the three matches were won by the English masters by closing and using rather unceremonious but nevetheless effective and infighting techniques that are no different from what I've learned in iai and kali/escrima. It just goes to show you that there's nothing really new when it comes to sword and weapons techniques.<br /><br />In comparing the knife and dagger methods, the thrusting, striking, parrying, blocking, outfighting, and infighting techniques are also very similar to the Filipino and Indonesian methods that I've studied, and also American Bowie knife methods that I've studied and researched from such instructors as James Keating and Col. McLemore in their books and videos. Mr. Keating especially has a whole series of videos out on both Asian and western methods of knife-fighting that are a great source of information on these methods.<br /><br />So from what I can see, there are really more similarities than differences between the different European styles and Asian styles; the only problem is that those who are involved in a particular tradition tend to see it as special or superior or separate from the other methods despite the fact that the bottom line is that humans only have two legs and two arms and there's really only a limited number of ways in which a human body can move with speed and power, because that is limited by physics, physiology and anatomy, and the biomechanics that results from those principles and limitations. For example, in kali and escrima, and even in karate, the fastest way to close with the opponent is known as the push-step closing gap method, which is identical to the lunga in European fencing. Why? Because for a mammal with only two feet in contact with the ground, there's only a certain number of limited ways to move quickly and efficiently.<br /><br />Another similarity between the Asian and European methods is the importance of footwork and how much that is emphasized. In knife fighting, it's said that there are no great knife fighters without great footwork, but that applies equally well to western boxing, karate and kung fu, and the sword arts. In the Hung Gar style of kung fu that I study, the most important aspect of the art is actually not the punches and strikes and kicks, but the footwork, because if you can't do that, it won't matter if you can kick and punch because you won't have the correct stance and footwork, or what is called the \\"basis.\\" Hence, one major difference between the neophyte knife fighter, kung fu student, or fencer will be the agility and skill in the footwork.<br /><br />That having been said, based on my over 40 years of doing martial arts, the simple fact is that many fights are often won on the basis of physical conditioning, toughness, aggressive intent, and attitude rather than superior skill and technique. I've seen plenty of white belts who were good athletes and willing to be aggressive best black belts who had far superior technique but who underestimated the white belt's intent and willingness to carry the fight to their supposedly superior opponent and to win at all costs. Futhermore, the white belts' techniques often are not slow but are very fast, despite the fact that they are often awkward or incorrect in terms of the angle or timing. Ironically, that just makes them harder to block since they're unpredictable. Any black belt will tell you that in many ways beginners are more difficult to fight than experts because one never knows what they will do, whereas the expert fights more precisely with the techniques of that style and is therefore more predictable.<br /><br />Finally, I would like to make one more comment relating the present controversy, which is that although I can see that both sides are convinced of their truth and correctness, ultimately, based on my own understanding of the research, there is really no way to say exactly how the Renaissance fencers fought. There were no camcorders back then, and our only source is the few books, such as the Talhofer, Wallenstein, Carozzo manual, and so on. The actual number of sources is comparatively few. What people have done is to look at the static plates and illustrations of these books and to try to infer the complete technique from this snapshot. While perhaps not impossible to do, it is very difficult, and then one can experiment and test and try it out and see if it actually seems to work. However, ultimately, there's really no way to determine what the correct or actual sword technique was like. Based on the number of people enthusiastically pursuing research in this area and actually sparring and testing to see what works, I suspect the modern recreators aren't faroff, but really, there's no way to say for sure.<br /><br />So overall, I thought this was an excellent book especially for a relative beginner like myself on the different European methods, and the present controversy notwithstanding, I still learned a lot from it.essive intent, and attitude rather than superior skill and technique. I've seen plenty of white belts who were good athletes and willing to be aggressive best black belts who had far superior technique but who underestimated the white belt's intent and willingness to carry the fight to their supposedly superior opponent and to win at all costs. Futhermore, the white belts' techniques often are not slow but are very fast, despite the fact that they are often awkward or incorrect in terms of the angle or timing. Ironically, that just makes them harder to block since they're unpredictable. Any black belt will tell you that in many ways beginners are more difficult to fight than experts because one never knows what they will do, whereas the expert fights more precisely with the techniques of that style and is therefore more predictable.    Finally, I would like to make one more comment relating the present controversy, which is that although I can see that both sides are convinced of their truth and correctness, ultimately, based on my own understanding of the research, there is really no way to say exactly how the Renaissance fencers fought. There were no camcorders back then, and our only source is the few books, such as the Talhofer, Wallenstein, Carozzo manual, and so on. The actual number of sources is comparatively few. What people have done is to look at the static plates and illustrations of these books and to try to infer the complete technique from this snapshot. While perhaps not impossible to do, it is very difficult, and then one can experiment and test and try it out and see if it actually seems to work. However, ultimately, there's really no way to determine what the correct or actual sword technique was like. Based on the number of people enthusiastically pursuing research in this area and actually sparring and testing to see what works, I suspect the modern recreators aren't far off, but really, there's no way to say for sure.    So overall, I thought this was an excellent book especially for a relative beginner like myself on the different European methods, and the present controversy notwithstanding, I still learned a lot from it.	2005-04-07
292323:US	45193257	R17MSM7H9X42RX	0804832188	736340235	75 Down Blocks: Refining Karate Techniques	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Detailed and technical	Prof. Rick Clark isn't your usual martial arts writer. For one thing, in this book he writes about the ideas of Wilfredo Pareto, the 19th century economist who invented the 80/20 rule, and how that idea applies to martial arts; crime statistics for violent attacks against police officers and their implication for martial arts training; and in the second appendix to the book, there is a brief history of the reintroduction of Japanese martial arts into their univerisity system and the contribution of a German doctor who became physician to the Meiji emperor's son in that regard by the name of Erwin Baelz.<br /><br />The title of the book derives from the fact that the author uses the concept of the down block as a metaphor to examine similar motions and to compare different techniques across the martial arts. For example, he mentions how the nikyu technique in aikido resembles the down block in many respects. Also, the book contains 75 different self-defense techniques against various kinds of attacks.<br /><br />The techniques also follow the rationale of being designed around the kinds of attacks one can expect based on the aforementioned crime statistics. According to the statistics, most percussive attacks involve either a simple front kick or punch, kicks being about 10% more likely than punches. Grabs at one's wrist or lapel are also very common, along with the attempt to twist the arm, but rarely does anyone try a specific choke or arm hold or technique.<br /><br />So as I said, although the technques run the full gamut in terms of responses, from holds and locks to takedowns and the usual karate techniques, they are organized around and seleted according to the critieria of probability of occurrence. I liked this aspect of the book and thought it made a lot of sense. The author's crime statistics are based on FBI crime figures from past decades.<br /><br />Another strong point of the book is that the percussion techniques are directed at the Chinese dim mak or vulnerable points, so you learn some of that too. I'm not going to debate the validity or efficacy of those theories of Chinese medicine here, I just mention it for accuracy's sake. The self-defense techniques in this book are more hold and lock oriented than karate oriented, so they take more skill to execute. Some of these techniques would qualify as very advanced and probably the average martial artist wouldn't be able to perform it in a real street situation. In that sense many of the techniques are more suitable for the advanced practitioner.<br /><br />One of the more advanced aspects of the techniques is that reversals against a wrist lock and arm bar are shown. These technqiues won't work, however, if you wait until the last minute to execute them, and the best reversal techiques aren't the ones actually illustrated, but they are the simplest. However, the author mentions the first point in the text.<br /><br />That having been said, most self-defense is pretty much the same whether one is talking about judo, BJJ, karate, or kung fu. They all invaribly involve how to escape from such things as wrist graps, chokes, and how to respond to kicks and punches. So the techniques illustrated here run the full gamut from basic to very advanced. Another reviewer here said some of the techniques are unrealistic in that they require grabbing a punch out of mid-air, but then that's no different from what many martial arts and artists teach. One has to take the good and useful along with less than useful and filter the techniques accordingly, although that takes some experience and skill.<br /><br />Some of the photo sequences are a bit unclear and required more photos to show the complete transition in the technique, but then, that's also a common problem in martial arts books on the grappling arts. The only real cure here is to use a book like this in conjunction with a video illustrating the holds and locks if one doesn't have access to a real teacher.<br /><br />So despite the above flaws, overall, an excellent book with a self-defense oriented theme from Prof. Clark.efense oriented theme from Prof. Clark.	2005-04-02
293463:US	45193257	RF3T33BSIDMXM	0865681902	856183005	Combat Jiu-Jitsu	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent practical jiu jitsu book	Although brief, this is a very practical and useful book on jiu-jitsu by Mr. Leff, whose training has an interesting history. While a foreign language teacher in South America, he met a Japanese instuctor by the name of Tanaka who taught a very aggressive form of jiu-jitsu that was still not widely taught to the public. Mr. Leff became a student and eventually a master of this system. He also worked as a bouncer for many years in New York city, where he learned that what he had been taught worked in real life situations.<br /><br />In this style of jiu jitsu, atemi waze or strikes and kicks are well integrated with the more typical throws and holds and locks. The chapter on \\"Fight Stoppers\\" shows this very well, which usually involve a more serious countering technique or blow combined with a hold or lock and/or takedown or throw. Other chapters shold holds and locks throws, and other techniques. The system is very self-defense oriented, which Leff mentions in the introduction was always a focus of his, and often his instructors didn't seem to emphasize it, especially the karate instructors, but also the judo and jiu jitsu ones as well.<br /><br />Mr. Leff also has some very sage advice about not resorting to violent behavior unless you absolutely have to, as a result of the possible legal fees and jail time. Although you might feel justified in defending yourself, it's possible the courts might not see it that way. Also, he points out that going to the ground, which one hears so often these days, is a very dangerous piece of advice and should not be done under any circumstances unless one falls or trips, since placing yourself on the ground just insures that if the guy has any companions that they will kick or stomp you on the ground.<br /><br />This is an excellent book on self-defense oriented jiu jitsu with many useful and practical techniques. My only complaint is that I would like to have seen even more of Mr. Leff's very practical and effective system and would like to see him do a book covering his complete system someday.ld like to see him do a book covering his complete system someday.	2005-04-01
297483:US	45193257	R2SYO3DNBWWKSV	0834804913	926909699	The Art of Holding: Principles & Techniques	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Outstanding book on subject	This is one of the best books out there on holds and locks. Mr. Tedeschi is apparently a well known designer and artist, and his books seem to reflect that expertise, as they are nicely laid out and designed with very clear photographs and clear and concise explanations and text accompanying the photos.<br /><br />The book presents over 150 holds and locks, so the coverage is very complete. So if you just learned all the techniques in this book, you really wouldn't need to learn anymore. The techniques are organized by area of the body, as is typical, so there are chapters on wrist holds, finger locks, armlocks and holds, neck and headlocks, and leg and ankle locks.<br /><br />Standing holds are included as well as ground holds, so some matwork is included too, which may be of interest to the grappling and BJJ enthusiasts out there.<br /><br />In addition to the above, the book also has many useful or even unique features that I haven't seen in other books on holds and locks, such as:<br /><br />1. Comparisons of the same holds and locks in the various arts, such as aikido, jiu-jitsu, judo, wrestling, and hapkido, showing the similarities in techniques across the different arts<br /><br />2. Very thorough and detailed pressure point and nerve charts<br /><br />3. A presentation of wrist holds by biomechanical action that is useful<br /><br />4. Overview pages at the beginning of each chapter, such as wrist locks, illustrating the final position of the lock, which makes it easy to review the material or go to the lock you're interested in (since the names of the different holds and locks vary widely in the different disciplines)<br /><br />5. Tips on holds and chokes, such as how to eliminate \\"play\\" in chokes.<br /><br />6. Detailed photo sequences, usually incorporating more photos than in other such books, making it easier to follow the action<br /><br />7. A chapter specifically on nerve and nerve cavity type holds<br /><br />8. High quality, glossy paper that is rare on all but the most expensive books these days (you pay more for it, of course)<br /><br />9. Photographs are black and white with very high contrast, making them easy to see<br /><br />10. The whole book is just very nicely organized, laid out, and convenient to use<br /><br />I have a suggestion on how to use the book. If you're a specialist in holds and locks, there might not be that much new to you here, but if you're more of a karate or kung fu or TKD person and you're trying to learn some holds and locks to integrate with your percussion techniques, I have some advice for you, since that's primarily what I am, although I have a second specialty in chin na.<br /><br />It's not necessary to learn a great many techniques. Remember, back in the 1400s in Japan even a great jiu jitsu master might only know a dozen or two dozen different holds, but he could apply them with great skill to many different types of situations. I think that approach still has merit today. You could pick half a dozen or a dozen and leave it at that.<br /><br />Another way to go would be to pick a few wrist locks, a few elbow locks, neck holds and chokes, and leg and ankle locks each. Also, some holds work better at arm's length and others are for more closeup. You could pick several that work at each distance as well, and several that work standing as well as on the ground, such as the standard armbar or under arm pin.<br /><br />Finally, there is the distinction of whether the lock is applied from the inside or outside position relative to the opponent's guard. For example, the standard arm bar is done with you to the outside of his arm, and therefore away from the other punching hand, whereas the well known outward wrist lock, although a formidable technique, is done from the inside, where one is more vulnerable. But both kinds of techniques should be learned since you aren't always able to get to the outside guard position.<br /><br />If you're interested in further information, the books by Yang Jwing Ming on chin na such as Analysis of Shaolin Chin Na and Taiji Chin Na, are also excellent, and also Ming's videos, the video by Kwong Wing Lam on chin na, and there are a few others I'm probably forgetting. The only problem with a book even as good as this one, is that for the price of this book new, you can get a video on the subject that actually shows the techniques in action. The Ming video I have has over 100 holds and locks, but he has several.<br /><br />In fact, if you watch the auctions for a while, you can pick them up used on e Bay for less than the price of these books new. The only thing is chin na ones don't get listed as often as the other martial arts videos and you might have to watch for a while to find some. But that's how I got mine.eo by Kwong Wing Lam on chin na, and there are a few others I'm probably forgetting. The only problem with a book even as good as this one, is that for the price of this book new, you can get a video on the subject that actually shows the techniques in action. The Ming video I have has over 100 holds and locks, but he has several.    In fact, if you watch the auctions for a while, you can pick them up used on e Bay for less than the price of these books new. The only thing is chin na ones don't get listed as often as the other martial arts videos and you might have to watch for a while to find some. But that's how I got mine.	2005-03-29
300036:US	45193257	R1Y8FAENKRJMLH	0874743079	473568992	First Book of Grasses: The Structure of Grasses Explained for Beginners (Smithsonian publication ; 4351)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic little book in this field	Although my botanical interests lie mainly in mycology and dendrology, I developed a little (or not so little, as the case may be, since there are approximately 14,000 species of grasses) subspecialty in graminology, or grass taxonomy. I was truly delighted to find this little book, because it is the best book I've found to get a conceptual understanding of the structure of grasses and the main genera to such an extent that it will aid your ability to identify them in the field using more traditional taxonomic keys. Normally, such keys lead you from the specific characters to the taxon/concept itself, but with this book, you learn the more powerful concepts that unify and differentiate the various genera. This was a great aid to me in my field identification of this important group, because after reading this book several times, I basically knew what was going on, instead of just \\"cookbooking\\" it using the typical botanical key, which is what the usual non-specialist in grass taxonomy does.<br /><br />I have sort of an amusing story associated with this book. By learning the powerful generic concepts in the book I could basically identify any grass at least to the genus level by sight, and then I could consult a more detailed taxonomic key from there for the species. I was once sitting around a fire with my fellow mycologists, who were somewhat amused I had somehow learned how to identify the grasses, which, even for a botanist, are an esoteric group. So when they asked what I was doing, I said that once you understood the grasses, even an apparently desolate, boring, sand lot down the block can provide hours of fun. Mycologists are used to spending hours tramping through the woods in search of interesting mushrooms, so they found this quite funny and everybody laughed at the thought.<br /><br />Anway, Agnes Chase loved the grasses and this book is filled with that enthusiasm in this clear and concise book, helping to make one of the most difficult areas of plant identification easier to deal with.nt identification easier to deal with.	2005-03-27
300147:US	45193257	R131W63HJEQVSY	0873498259	899239505	American Premium Guide to Knives and Razors: Identification & Value Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A brief comment	No one book can completely cover even one subfield of knife collecting and values anymore, but this is probably one of the five or six essential reference works for knife collectors. I bought it mainly because I've been a case collector in the past, and it's also especially strong on pocket knives, and Case is the most well known and most collectible of the factory production pocket knives. The book covers all the other main names  in that field, including Buck, Schrade, Remington, Queen, Camillus, Parker, Kershaw, Schatt and Morgan, Winchester, and many other lesser known names. But it also covers fixed blades, limited editions and semi-custom, and custom knives are covered as well. But this book is considered to have the strongest coverage of any collector's book on Case, and it's probably an essential reference work for any Case and other American pocket knife collector.	2005-03-27
300210:US	45193257	R20H39HXE87Z3C	0028534107	743402479	California Mushrooms; A Field Guide to the Boletes	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A brief comment	Dr. Harry Thiers was the world's greatest authority on California mushrooms, and especially the boletes, and this work reflects his lifetime of devotion and study in this field. There is no better work in the field for identifying the boletes. Dr. Thiers wrote half a dozen works on the most important groups, and dozens and maybe even hundreds of journal articles, and this is possibly the greatest of all of them.<br /><br />I have to mention that I was a graduate student of Dr. Thiers back in the mid-80s just before he retired. I was actually a neurobiology grad student, but I had a side interest in botany and mycology, and I took every one of Dr. Thiers's undergraduate and graduate courses and seminars before he retired. He passed away a few years after he retired, and the mycology world lost a great scientist and a great human being.<br /><br />Dr. Thiers was even very encouraging to me, although he knew I was basically committed to another field and wouldn't be going on in mycology, but he appreciated my interest and especially my interest in lichenology, which was my specialty, since not as many people had much interest in that. In fact, the year I took the course, it was supposedly the only course in the United States taught on the subject.<br /><br />I still have fond memories of going on field trips with Dr. Thiers with the rest of his grad students of that day, which included Dennis Desjardin (who now occupies Dr. Thiers's professorship at San Francisco State University), Herb Saylor, Sam Hammer, Michelle, and Rick. Those times and Dr. Thiers are now gone, but their memories will live on in his works and the many students he influenced, many of who became professional mycologists themselves.	2005-03-27
300375:US	45193257	RYNSPBVPPWMHW	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	4	23	32	N	N	Fine book, except...	Although this is in many ways an inspiring book and I am sympathetic to Rev. Warren's program, I have one problem with it--which is that so much of the evidence seems to show that in fact God does not have a special purpose for everybody. Contrary to Rev. Warren's thesis, many people's lives are wasted through circumstances beyond their control despite their most strenuous and well-intentioned efforts to the contrary. Therefore, whether they have a relationship with God or not would not alter the fact that their lives do not seem to fulfill any important purpose. So if one's life does in fact not have a very meaningful purpose, what is the point in seeking a purpose-driven relationship with God?<br /><br />For example, some years ago I met a very intelligent and brilliant individual who should have been a professor or teacher or researcher or something, and yet because of constant recurring health problems and frequent poverty, was never able to fulfill his tremendous potential, and had spent most of his career working odd jobs which were basically a complete waste of his talents. Why would God endow someone with such extraordinary abilities and then allow them to be wasted? This doesn't make any sense to me.<br /><br />This individual was even happy with his relationship with God, and seemed to accept his sorry state as his fate with stoic resignation. I wasn't so sanguine about the situation, however, and would argue that this means that God in fact does not have a purpose for everyone, or at least, the purpose has nothing to do with what he has naturally endowed someone with by birth. Aristotle said that the greatest evil was the evil of unfulfilled potential and promise. If so, we live in a world where such evil is fairly commonplace. One does not have to look very far to find other examples of this. Many and perhaps most of us have all known people like this.<br /><br />Therefore, although I am very sympathetic to Rev. Warren's idea, I am more inclined to agree with theologian Frederick Montag's position that while God may have a purpose for us, it is his purpose and a purpose that fulfills his ends and his greater plan, and is not identical with our good, but with his. Hence, his greater purpose still transcends our limited understanding of his plan since the reality of so many wasted lives can't be explained by any simple purpose on God's part, nor a purpose that primarily serves ours rather than God's.<br /><br />Montag, who was a Jesuit scholar who was invited to lecture at the Vatican after his book came out, also pointed out that whatever good evil accomplishes, the waste around us is too great to be accounted for by the accomplishment of any truly good purpose, at least in human terms. Many of you who are theologically inclined will recognize this as simply another variation on the issue of the problem of evil in the world.<br /><br />The great theologian (and perhaps the greatest of all next to St. Thomas Aquinas) Paul Tillich's most important idea was the transformative power of faith and how that could radically change people's lives for the better. However, Tillich is speaking of this in a spiritual sense and how spirituality manifests itself in daily life. Tillich understood the fundamental uncertainty and precariousness of man's situation and maintained that it is precisely the ability of the spiritual person to act despite that fact, and the possibility that all his efforts might come to naught, that is important.<br /><br />(By the way, for the philosophically and theologically inclined, one can even read the Pope's encyclicals on the Vatican website, some of which represent a significant reformulation and restatement of much of the traditional philosophy and theology of the Church, much of which derives from the philosophy of Plotinus and from neo-Platonic metaphysics and ontology. It's been so long since I read the Pope's encyclical and also Plotinus, that I don't recall what they might have to say aboutthis issue, but you can find the Pope's encyclicals there and read them if you're interested). The Vatican website (where you can do a search and find all Papal documents and encyclicals) is at:<br /><br />[...]<br /><br />There is also a webpage that has all the current Pope's encyclicals with a study tool at this URL:<br /><br />[...]<br /><br />Getting back to Rev. Warren's idea, this means that although we should perhaps try to establish a relationship with God and to determine his purpose, many of us will have to content ourselves with lives which don't seem to have any meaningful purpose, at least in the sense in which Rev. Warren defines it--although we may indeed have a purpose in the sense in which Tillich defined it.als there and read them if you're interested). The Vatican website (where you can do a search and find all Papal documents and encyclicals) is at:    [...]    There is also a webpage that has all the current Pope's encyclicals with a study tool at this URL:    [...]    Getting back to Rev. Warren's idea, this means that although we should perhaps try to establish a relationship with God and to determine his purpose, many of us will have to content ourselves with lives which don't seem to have any meaningful purpose, at least in the sense in which Rev. Warren defines it--although we may indeed have a purpose in the sense in which Tillich defined it.	2005-03-27
325129:US	45193257	R3M35XMS6K3LL4	1581603894	643957240	Bowie And Big-knife Fighting System	Books	5	55	61	N	N	Superb	Knives are almost ubiquitous weapons these days, and many kinds of high-performance, combat folders are very popular as carry knives. Hence, it behooves the student of martial arts, peace officer, and even private citizen to familiarize himself with their use and their defense. Granted, one can't learn to really defend oneself against a knife-wielding attacker from a book, or even in many months of training with an expert, but a book like this is a great way to begin your knowledge and training. In the Filipino bladed arts, there is the concept of knife-familiarization known as \\"encounter with the blade\\" (I forget the Tagalog term) wherein one begins for the first time to learn the basic techniques and becomes at least familiar with the blade. If you're already a student of the bladed arts, this book will be a valuable addition to your martial arts library.<br /><br />Before I get into the discussion of the book, I'd like to mention something of my own background.<br /><br />I am a karate and kali/escrima instructor of more than 30 years and specialize in close quarters combat and weapons training with the knife. This includes adapting classical Asian styles to knife fighting as well as researching and teaching the more specifically knife-oriented Filipino arts.<br /><br />I have also, although I haven't been able to formally study it (although I've been to a few seminars) intensively researched Pentjak-Silat through purchasing many videos on over two dozen different styles, which many of you will already know is another knife oriented art. Silat has become almost popular in the U.S. over the last ten years in some venues, a development I was very pleased to see, since Silat is a formidable bladed art itself.<br /><br />I have a number of books on knife-fighting and over 70 videos on kali/escrima/arnis, and over 40 on Indonesian Pentjak Silat. I used this material to research the different knife-fighting styles of the Pacific Rim arts, in addition to my own training under several gurus, in order to develop my own approach to knife-fighting. Basically, I've seen almost every video or book by every bladed weapons expert of any note, and this is one of my favorite books on knife fighting, and specifically large knife fighting. Anyway, that was all by way of saying this is a field I know my way around pretty well, and I know good research and information when I see it.<br /><br />Col. McLemore spent years researching the book and it shows. Well written and beautifully illustrated (just as the originally 18th and 19th century training manuals were), the book provides a wonderfully organized and detailed course on Bowie knife fighting. Taking the student step-by-step through the various technique and practice drills, McLemore gives the student a thorough grounding in the basics, as well as the more advanced techniques.<br /><br />Blocks, parries, traps, stabbing, thrusting and slashing techniques, footwork, combinations, and countering methods are all covered in detail. The normal saber grip versus the reverse grip is also covered, since the methods and capabilities of each style are distinctly different. The skilled student of the blade should be familiar with both styles even if he prefers to use only one in his training, in order to know how to defend against either one when he encounters it.<br /><br />In knife fighting footwork is critical, and it is said there are no great knife fighters without great footwork. Footwork skills and drills are covered as well. Furthermore, I would add that once one has gained proficiency in the basic footwork and parrying skills, that one add body shifting methods such as dodging, ducking, dipping, rolling to the inside and outside, and so on, to one's repertory of defensive skills. When it comes to potentially serious or lethal encounters with the blade, it's all about giving yourself options, and thus increasing your chances of winning and or survival.<br /><br />Another thing to remember in such an situation (and that I explain to my own students), is that in a deadly or weapons based encounter, your goal is not really to win, but not to lose and to escape with your life, because winning might require using more risky techniques and thereby expose yourself to a deadly counter. Your goal is simply to survive the first few seconds and then disengage and run if at all possible.<br /><br />If you liked this book and want something further, James Keating's videos on both the Asian blade and American and European knife-fighting are excellent as well as Kelly Worden's videos. In his 10 volume video series on Natural Spirit Kuntau, there are two videos done by him and Keating that specifically deal with the blade. I also highly recommend the four volume series by Rey Galang and Christopher Ricketts on Kali Ilustrisimo. In addition, I like the four volume set by Jim Mahan and Roger Lewis on American Wagi Kali Silat, which contains a very detailed and well organized and logical training progression that I had adopted to organize the enormous amount of information and training drills I've accumulated during my own studies and for my own students.<br /><br />But getting back to the present book, overall, a great contribution to the field and a must have for any serious student of the art or enthusiast in the area of historical combat techniques.hat in a deadly or weapons based encounter, your goal is not really to win, but not to lose and to escape with your life, because winning might require using more risky techniques and thereby expose yourself to a deadly counter. Your goal is simply to survive the first few seconds and then disengage and run if at all possible.    If you liked this book and want something further, James Keating's videos on both the Asian blade and American and European knife-fighting are excellent as well as Kelly Worden's videos. In his 10 volume video series on Natural Spirit Kuntau, there are two videos done by him and Keating that specifically deal with the blade. I also highly recommend the four volume series by Rey Galang and Christopher Ricketts on Kali Ilustrisimo. In addition, I like the four volume set by Jim Mahan and Roger Lewis on American Wagi Kali Silat, which contains a very detailed and well organized and logical training progression that I had adopted to organize the enormous amount of information and training drills I've accumulated during my own studies and for my own students.    But getting back to the present book, overall, a great contribution to the field and a must have for any serious student of the art or enthusiast in the area of historical combat techniques.	2005-03-07
325508:US	45193257	R3O6RZ9X2C069J	0736045686	75886227	Mastering Kung Fu (Mastering Martial Arts Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Top notch	This is just a top-notch book on WC. The book is actually mostly text, since it's intended for the experienced practitioner, and so deals mainly with the more advanced topics such as strategy, interval, flow, advanced techniques, and other subjects. This makes it one of the most well-thought out, detailed, and technical analyses of wing chun out there, and should be of interest to beginning and advanced WC practitioners alike. The authors' explanations are very clear and concise, even when dealing with the more esoteric topics. Whether you agree with everything the authors say on some of the more controversial things or not, you'll find this a well done book on wing chun. I suspect it will probably become a classic in the kung fu genre.	2005-03-06
329431:US	45193257	R289XGFCT1PGLI	0071374310	420604606	All About Real Estate Investing: The Easy Way to Get Started	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good for a start	I agree with the previous poster that the book is good in covering some aspects of financial analysis and profitability, but isn't a general book on real estate investing. However, the author does point that out in the book, that you will need to further study on the topics  this book doesn't cover.<br /><br />The main strength of the book is in the profitability calculations and time value analyses of investment capital in real estate. There are detailed calculations to examine a property's projected profitability, and these range from simple calculations designed to give you a quick and dirty figure as a first approximation, such as the pre-tax operating cash flow, which is just gross income minus loan service and operating expenses, but doesn't take into consideration such things as the owner's tax bracket, depreciation, and so on. So it is much inferior to the total internal rate of return calculation, according to the author, but as I said, is useful for a rough idea and to filter likely properties for closer examination.<br /><br />The book discusses the pros and cons of the different types of investments, such as single family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes and qaudriplexes, and undeveloped land, in terms of their potential profitability.<br /><br />For example, many new investors start with a duplex, which are easier to rent than a single family home (such renters are probably on the verge of buying their own home), and which can be managed easily by a neophyte investor. Progressing onto something like a four-plex, this offers greater profit potential but requires much more management knowledge both in terms of people skills and accounting and organizational skills and so on, negotiating with contractors for repairs, and so on. Single family dwellings usually have a net negative cash flow until sold, but offer greater capital appreciation than apartments, but apartments usually have a positive cash flow during the holding period.<br /><br />So overall, a good book for some aspects of real estate investing, but you'll need a more general book to fill in your knowledge of the other areas, especially the day to day and practical aspects of management, how to set up the various bookkeeping chores, which will require separate books for tracking expenses and operating costs, rental payments, gross and net income statements, overall profitability, and so on. For a recommendation for a better general book, I preferred the one by Milt Tarven, but unfortunately I don't recall the exact title.al estate investing, but you'll need a more general book to fill in your knowledge of the other areas, especially the day to day and practical aspects of management, how to set up the various bookkeeping chores, which will require separate books for tracking expenses and operating costs, rental payments, gross and net income statements, overall profitability, and so on. For a recommendation for a better general book, I preferred the one by Milt Tarven, but unfortunately I don't recall the exact title.	2005-03-03
336703:US	45193257	R2VUMGRZCIHA17	1574324055	330102360	Collector's Encyclopedia of Barbie Doll Collector's Editions: Identification and Values	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Definitive volume for collectors	Okay, you might ask what a guy like me is doing reviewing a book on Barbie Dolls. Well, for one thing, I used to live just down the street from the Barbie Doll museum in San Mateo, CA, but had never gotten around to visiting it, and when I saw this book as I strolled down the collectible aisle in the local bookstore, which had books on collecting coins, stamps, signatures, cars, antiques, art glass, dinner plates, and Barbie dolls, I had to check it out. So I picked it up and took a look. I was surprised to see some of these dolls go for nearly $1000, but most of the dolls in this book go for $10 to $50.<br /><br />Also, the Barbie Doll is probably one of the most important pop culture icons of the last 40 years. Hundreds of millions of Barbie Dolls have been sold in just about every country.<br /><br />The book also had some interesting historical info. The first doll came out in 1959, and from there until 1966, there was only one head mold used, altered slightly for the Fashion Queen and Miss Barbie Dolls. From 1967 through 1976, there were four different head molds used (the original 1959 was used for Montgomery Ward, Twist n' Turn Barbie, Stacey, and Steffie Dolls).<br /><br />Since 1977, however, many other molds have been used, offering more variety and ethnic diversity, including the 1981 Oriental Barbie, the 1983 Spanish Barbie, the 1991 Shani Barbie, the 1992 Mackie Neptune Fantasy Barbie (which looks like it might have been Aquaman's girlfriend or significant other, from the comic strips), and the 1999 Fantasy Goddess of Africa Barbie.<br /><br />The book also contains info on prices and rarity, and other general information on each model, including clothing, accessories, face make-up, Ken dolls, and other Barbie paraphernalia.	2005-02-25
336792:US	45193257	R38KKRUVTJPUOA	1572483288	882894684	How to Buy Your First Home	Books	5	61	61	N	N	Good first book on buying a home	This is a basic book on home buying intended for the first time buyer. It's' fairly brief, only about 130 pages (minus the appendices), so it's a quick read. If you're a second time buyer it would probably be too basic for you, but I was looking for a quick primer before starting to read more technical books on investing in real estate.<br /><br />It covers the essentials of mortgages, the bidding and negotiation process, working with agents and inspectors, the major government agencies that participate in the mortgage market, such as HUD, VA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and so on. Although you don't need to understand it to purchase a house, the secondary market is briefly discussed so you'll know what that is when you hear real estate professionals mention the term.<br /><br />Most of the information is quite practical, such as how to deal with real estate agents (don't let them act like mothers-in-law and let them decide what's best for you in the way of a house, no matter how well-meaning their intentions), and inspectors (don't insist on being present during the inspection, it'll just distract them).<br /><br />After the chapters devoted to the mechanics of buying the house, there's a chapter basically on \\"What now?\\" After the happy glow of buying your first house wears off, you'll now have to face the reality of doing the required maintenance and repairs, keeping up the lawn and landscaping, making sure you save enough to pay taxes, and so on. There are even useful hints on how to conserve energy and how much you can save by having old furnaces and air conditioners replaced, and the author says hers paid for itself in about 18 months, although the initial cost was daunting (about $2500). But it was worth it over the long run.<br /><br />Finally, there's a chapter on foreclosure and what to do if you find yourself in that situation. There's help available in that many cities or state government agencies can help with either grants, money or advice. The book also has a glossary, and two appendices of useful worksheets such as comparing house features and mortgage lenders, a HUD-1 worksheet, and a VA guaranteed loan application form.<br /><br />The book is clearly and concisely written and should give anyone a basic understanding of the home buying process. After this I went on to reading more advanced books on investing in real estate and it was useful for getting the basic knowledge quickly and easily.ndices of useful worksheets such as comparing house features and mortgage lenders, a HUD-1 worksheet, and a VA guaranteed loan application form.     The book is clearly and concisely written and should give anyone a basic understanding of the home buying process. After this I went on to reading more advanced books on investing in real estate and it was useful for getting the basic knowledge quickly and easily.	2005-02-25
343185:US	45193257	R2HRYQ6XXV7SZA	0940871378	134663159	Taiji Chin Na: The Seizing Art of Taijiquan (Chinese Internal Martial Arts)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Top quality chin na book	This is another excellent book from Dr. Yang. I have several of his other chin na books, including the big Chin Na Applications book with the pink cover, and this makes a great companion to that book also. Dozens of useful techniques are presented, covering the complete range of chin na applications from wrist, elbow and sholder locks to knee, neck, and head holds and locks.<br /><br />Chin na is a fascinating art, and several kung fu styles, such as various tiger styles and eagle claw kung fu, are famous for their chin na. But all kung fu styles have some chin ha, as well as tai chi styles. Chen style tai chi is especially well known also for its chin na. At the Shaolin temples, students first learned the punching and kicking arts of kung fu, later progressing to chin na, which was practiced by only the more advanced monks.<br /><br />That leads to my next comment, which is that compared to the percussion arts, or punching and kicking arts like TKD, karate, and kung fu, chin na is definitely a grappling art and is even more difficult to learn from a book. Dr. Yang's books usually have very good photo sequences, and this one is no different, but it's still hard to do it from a text. Therefore, this book is recommended more for somewhat who already has at least a basic background already in the techniques (or another form of locking or grappling) in order to get the most from it. You don't have to be a chin na student either, jujitsu, aikido, and even the Indonesian arts of pentjak silat (especially the Rikesan and Mande Muda silat styles) have many similar holds and locks.<br /><br />If you're going to try to seriously learn from the book, I have a recommendation for you to aid your learning. Another thing you can do is use the book in conjunction with a good video on chin na. Several masters, including Kwong Wing Lam, have done this and I've seen them and they're excellent. Dr. Yang has a video where he demonstrates over 100 techniques in one video, making it an excellent tape for the price.<br /><br />You can often find these tapes relatively inexpensively used on e Bay. Just do a search for \\"chin na.\\" The chin na tapes aren't as common as some of the other martial arts videos you see, but if you monitor e Bay for them for a month or two you should be able to find some, which is how I got mine. You can usually get a good video for ten to twenty dollars plus a few dollars shipping. The combination of the book and the video is about the next best thing to having a real teacher, if you live in an area where none is available.<br /><br />I am a chin na teacher myself, and my chin na derived from what is known as square wu style tai chi, although I have studied Yang style also. I teach the holds and locks which I integrate with the punching and kicking arts, which gives you both outfighting and infighting grappling arts for both ranges, and chin na is great for that. I find I prefer it to aikido in some ways since the circles and movements are smaller in chin na and designed to flow from the other hand and foot techniques.<br /><br />As another writer here commented, you'll also need a training partner, which is essential with any grappling art. It's easier to train on your own doing kung fu or karate, but with chin na a partner is essential. Also, be sure to go slow and easy at first and avoid any powerful or jerky movements. Remember that chin na holds and locks apply maximum leverage and extension to the joints and serious injury can result if you go too far. Be sure you and your partner understand to let up immediately when someone taps out. Move into position slowly at first and then speed up as you get better, but always take care of your partner. In 20 years of doing chin na I've never hurt anyone seriously, but other people have hurt me occasionally who weren't as careful or skilled as I, so be careful. With each lock there's a point where you will feel resistance and you can't go any further without damaging the body. Learn to feel for that and to stop at that point. Still, a little bit of pain and soreness and getting your elbows and wrists especially \\"tweaked\\" a bit is normal in chin na. But it's important to observe normal safety precautions to avoid more serious injury. Remember, if you get hurt you won't be able to train. And if you hurt your partner, he won't be able to train with you.<br /><br />Overall, another great book from Dr. Yang, who is much respected in the Chinese martial arts community for the breadth and depth of his knowledge in several Chinese arts, which includes Shaolin White Crane, Eagle Claw kung fu (which is a very rare style to find these days) and chin na.t. Still, a little bit of pain and soreness and getting your elbows and wrists especially \\"tweaked\\" a bit is normal in chin na. But it's important to observe normal safety precautions to avoid more serious injury. Remember, if you get hurt you won't be able to train. And if you hurt your partner, he won't be able to train with you.    Overall, another great book from Dr. Yang, who is much respected in the Chinese martial arts community for the breadth and depth of his knowledge in several Chinese arts, which includes Shaolin White Crane, Eagle Claw kung fu (which is a very rare style to find these days) and chin na.	2005-02-20
347398:US	45193257	R3PTHS3O2CC7R1	0374528837	513130379	The Founding Fish	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The "Compleat Shad"--and more	I just had a few miscellaneous comments on this book.<br /><br />I enjoy McPhee's books although I rarely have the time to read them through cover to cover. But I'll often dip into them and enjoy his insights into the people and things he writes about. McPhee has a fine ability to evoke what is special about a place, the people who live there, and what they do, and this book is no different. With his usual low-key but engaging and conversational style, McPhee regales us with accounts of the people who fish for shad. Before reading this book, I had no idea there was a particular, well, subculture of shad fisherman who were distinct from, say striped bass or salmon fisherman or others. In one of the funnier sections in the book, McPhee and a couple of other shad fisherman friends are discussing the difference between shad and striped bass fisherman. They agree that shad fisherman are polite and more cultured, whereas the striper types are \\"the wrestling crowd,\\" \\"have missing teeth,\\" and are \\"rude.\\" However, they are also, as one of them says, \\"kick-ass fisherman.\\" (I don't know how true it is, but as I know nothing of fishing culture I will give McPhee the benefit of the doubt).<br /><br />The book is replete with accounts of the present day as well as the historical importance of shad. Washington's troops feasted on a large shad catch during the shad's up river swim to spawn one season, which Washington knew about, and where and when to get the best catch. What they couldn't eat at the time, they salted and stored away for future use. In fact, McPhee states that Washington himself was a shad fisherman.<br /><br />I had one minor criticism. One of the fisherman who is also a fish biologist, Kynard, says that fish don't see the way we do, and that they see by light using up a photochemical by the name of rhodopsin. However, this is no different from the way all vertebrates see, including humans. All vertebrates have rhodopsin in their retinal cells and the amount of rhodopsin activity is proportional to the amount of light. Where fish differ from us is in having many more cones, the basis of color vision. We have only three cones, red, green, and blue, but fish have 6 or 7, and reptiles and amphibians have 4 or 5. Hence, they likely see even more colors than we do and have better vision there.<br /><br />Kynard makes one interesting observation, however, which is that he thinks that shad have trouble going up river under very bright light conditions since their eyes become depleted of rhodopsin. For example, they have trouble with whitewater which could be because it reflects a lot of light, and it confuses the shad, whereas salmon and other fish seem to have no trouble. I thought this was an interesting speculation. I suppose this is possible, although rhodopsin is recycled at a furious rate in the retina.<br /><br />Anyway, I apologize for waxing so nerdy, but I was trained as a sensory neurophysiolgist once. Overall, I enjoyed the book and it's another example of how McPhee can bring his journalistic expertise and  talents to the enjoyable exploration of what might seem to be a very narrow or specialized field, but which in McPhee's case, can become a microcosm for life itself, the conversations ranging from the shad specific to marriage to work and life in general, often looked at from the perspective of the home-spun wisdom and common sense of the intrepid shad fisherman. Of course there's a huge amount of fascinating info about shad fishing here, and much of it is specific to shad. For example, I learned more about how to make shad lures and darts than I probably ever wanted to know. :-) But it was interesting and enjoyable to read about nevertheless.of rhodopsin activity is proportional to the amount of light. Where fish differ from us is in having many more cones, the basis of color vision. We have only three cones, red, green, and blue, but fish have 6 or 7, and reptiles and amphibians have 4 or 5. Hence, they likely see even more colors than we do and have better vision there. <br /> <br />Kynard makes one interesting observation, however, which is that he thinks that shad have trouble going up river under very bright light conditions since their eyes become depleted of rhodopsin. For example, they have trouble with whitewater which could be because it reflects a lot of light, and it confuses the shad, whereas salmon and other fish seem to have no trouble. I thought this was an interesting speculation. I suppose this is possible, although rhodopsin is recycled at a furious rate in the retina.  <br /> <br />Anyway, I apologize for waxing so nerdy, but I was trained as a sensory neurophysiolgist once. Overall, I enjoyed the book and it's another example of how McPhee can bring his journalistic expertise and  talents to the enjoyable exploration of what might seem to be a very narrow or specialized field, but which in McPhee's case, can become a microcosm for life itself, the conversations ranging from the shad specific to marriage to work and life in general, often looked at from the perspective of the home-spun wisdom and common sense of the intrepid shad fisherman. Of course there's a huge amount of fascinating info about shad fishing here, and much of it is specific to shad. For example, I learned more about how to make shad lures and darts than I probably ever wanted to know. :-) But it was interesting and enjoyable to read about nevertheless.	2005-02-16
350166:US	45193257	R77ZIUTQJPD8P	0140205160	878251641	Know Your Own I.Q. (Pelican)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	First book for self-testing	This was the first book, as far as I know, that allowed a layman to test and know his own I.Q. Written by the famous British psychologist, who worked in both the clinical psychology and personality and intelligence testing areas, it contains a series of tests that you can administer yourself to find out your own I.Q.<br /><br />The tests are what's known as multi-factor or omnibus tests in that your average score is comprised of the results of three subtests, which is a now familiar strategy for designing I.Q. tests. Most tests examine verbal, mathematical, and spatial abilities, and this one does too, using vocabulary, number series, and spatial matching of figures to test these abilities. Number series are regarded especially as a good culture-free way to get at mathematical intelligence, which is good, since the vocabulary area is so socio-economically influenced.<br /><br />That having been said, ironically, it has been shown that the most elaborate I.Q. test is only about 10-15% more accurate than a simple, forty-item, 20-30 minute vocabulary test. Why this is isn't that hard to fathom. Since language is the tool for thought, a command of one's language is a good proxy for one's level of cognitive sophistication in at least linguistic terms, and perhaps for intelligence, also. However, many psychologists aren't comfortable basing decisions on the results of a one-factor test. (Although verbal analogies are similarly good and would work pretty well too, and those tests can be made with very high ceilings, as well. One of them, the MAT, or Miller Analogies Test, is used to test graduate applicants).<br /><br />After I got this book, it was a few years before I saw another self-scoring I.Q. test, this one with a blue and white cover that I recall seeing at many bookstores back in the 70s. I thought this was a pretty good test too, and it had a fairly high ceiling, going up to 150 or so. I noticed there are a number of these out now, and there are even websites offering tests that you can take for a small fee, but this book started this mini-trend or was nevertheless the first.<br /><br />The book also contains 10 of these tests, so you can take all of them and average your scores together to get a more accurate number. I noticed I did do much better, by 10 or 15 points, on several of these than on the others, so they perhaps vary in difficulty somewhat.<br /><br />There's also a fine introduction by Eysenck on the history and theory of I.Q. testing that I enjoyed, although this area was an interest of mine in grad school (although I was mainly a neurobiologist), but someone not knowing anything about the field will learn a lot from it.<br /><br />I also have to pass on a funny quote from Eysenck. He was a speaker at a psychological conference once, and one of the seminars was on human s_xuality. I think this was back in the 70s. Anyway, mast_rbation was one of the topics that came up, and Eysenck said that he didn't know why it was such a maligned practice, as it enabled you to meet a better class of girls that way. :-)<br /><br />Overall, a fine book by an eminent psychologist that is now probably a classic in its field and worth picking up if you can find a used copy.take for a small fee, but this book started this mini-trend or was nevertheless the first.     The book also contains 10 of these tests, so you can take all of them and average your scores together to get a more accurate number. I noticed I did do much better, by 10 or 15 points, on several of these than on the others, so they perhaps vary in difficulty somewhat.    There's also a fine introduction by Eysenck on the history and theory of I.Q. testing that I enjoyed, although this area was an interest of mine in grad school (although I was mainly a neurobiologist), but someone not knowing anything about the field will learn a lot from it.    I also have to pass on a funny quote from Eysenck. He was a speaker at a psychological conference once, and one of the seminars was on human s_xuality. I think this was back in the 70s. Anyway, mast_rbation was one of the topics that came up, and Eysenck said that he didn't know why it was such a maligned practice, as it enabled you to meet a better class of girls that way. :-)    Overall, a fine book by an eminent psychologist that is now probably a classic in its field and worth picking up if you can find a used copy.	2005-02-14
350362:US	45193257	R15JJF4NGF1103	0399511202	857612463	Test Your Own IQ	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good booklet and a few comments	I agree with the previous reviewer that this is a pretty good test. It examines five different factors, math, verbal, spatial, insight, and creative. The tests go one step further than many I.Q. tests in that you get a higher score the faster you finish. In I.Q. testing, this is known as the power factor and very few tests take it into account (because of the difficulty of doing so). However, this test seems to do a good job there. Overall, this seems to be good test and also correlated well with the many other tests that I've taken.<br /><br />While we're on the subject, I can't resist making some comments on the issue of testing high I.Q's. Most tests are most accurate for I.Q.'s around the mean and those within basically 2-3 standard deviations of the mean, which is 100.<br /><br />However, for some years now people have attempted to devise and design tests that can accurately examine the more rarified stratosphere of I.Q.'s above 140-150. One problem with this, as I said, is the standardization problem. The designers claim to be able overcome such problems as very small sample sizes by using various special procedures and statistics, but the problem of standardization for these sorts of tests has really never been resolved very well.<br /><br />Hence, many claims of I.Q.'s that high are really just that--claims. This isn't to say that people who score high on things like the Mega test or the Langdon LAIT and so on might not have I.Q.'s of 180, just the reliability and accuracy of such scores isn't that great and not nearly as much confidence should be placed in them.<br /><br />The psychologist Anne Roe devised an early example of such a test that she used to test eminent scientists back in the 1950s which also had a very high ceiling, and the results reported in her book, The Making of a Scientist, make for interesting reading. (She was also the wife of the famous biologist and paleontologist, George Gaylord Simpson, which she said helped her in getting the long interviews needed to accomplish her study, as she wasn't as famous back then as her husband was, at least not yet).<br /><br />The other problem is that the human brain is quite complex and we really don't know how to adequately test its capabilities except in the crudest sense. Most I.Q. tests examine a half-dozen factors at most (although the well-known DAT, or Differential Aptitude Test, looked at 9 factors, but then it was technically an aptitude test and not an I.Q. test) and there are actually dozens or perhaps hundreds of factors involved. The eminent cognitive psychologist and psychometrician, J.P. Guilford's Structure of Intellect model postulated 120 different types of intelligence (most if not all of which I find more convincing than the more standard factor models).<br /><br />Another problem is the factor subtests still correlate highly with each other; for example, the typical verbal subtest correlates at the .75 level with the math subtest, although the spatial ability tests seem purer. A .75 \\"r\\" or correlation means that half the variance in one test is accounted for by the variance of the other (since the variance is the correlation coefficient squared). Hence, the factor subtests aren't very \\"pure,\\" as they say, and correlate too highly with verbal skills which is too narrow a subset of skills and also is likely the most socio-economically influenced.<br /><br />That having been said, ironically, about the most egregious criticism of I.Q. tests is that you can show that the most complex and thorough I.Q. test known is only about 10-15% more accurate in predicting, say, college grades, than a 40- item, 20-30 minute vocabulary test.<br /><br />And finally, for the coup de grace, the most famous I.Q. study of all time, the Lewis Terman study at Stanford University in the last century, tested tens of thousands of kids and then followed 1400 of them with I.Q.'s of 140 and over throughout their lives. A couple of dozen were as high as 180. Although a distinguished group in later life in that many of their achievements were impressive, there were no Nobel Laureates in the group. In fact, they passed over two of them--Luis Alvarez and William Shockley--who didn't test high enough to be included, both of whom later won the Nobel Prize in physics. Oops.<br /><br />Anyway, just a few comments on the issues surrounding developing accurate I.Q. tests, especially for those at the more extreme ends of the Gaussian or normal distribution.ements were impressive, there were no Nobel Laureates in the group. In fact, they passed over two of them--Luis Alvarez and William Shockley--who didn't test high enough to be included, both of whom later won the Nobel Prize in physics. Oops.    Anyway, just a few comments on the issues surrounding developing accurate I.Q. tests, especially for those at the more extreme ends of the Gaussian or normal distribution.	2005-02-14
350680:US	45193257	R1NNTJFW2IXZG	0671731459	652497667	Luscher Color Test	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Interesting test but with reservations	I recall being interested in this test when it came out in a Bantam Books edition when I was a young psychology grad student. Based on what's known as functional color psychology, the test uses somewhat off-color panels and their pairings to assess personality dynamics. The reason for why pure colors aren't used for the 8 panels is discussed in the book, so I won't burden you with it here, but it's actually one of the more interesting parts of the theory of color psychology and why the color panels appear as they do.<br /><br />I played with the test quite a bit at the time and although found it interesting and perhaps valid, the entire area of color psychology, although fascinating, still seems to me to be a bit of a stretch as far as using it for any real depth psychological purposes. I haven't looked in detail at the research used to standardize the test, so I can't say for sure, but in my own case I found the test best for determining when I was under stress. At other times it seemed less accurate, and my results could vary from day to day.<br /><br />Also, as another poster here commented, the descriptions for the results, although they sound clinical and fairly specific, can be switched around and read to people and they will agree as much with them as with the supposedly correct diagnosis or interpretation in the book.<br /><br />The field of color psychology is much more prevalent in Europe than in the U.S., but the most I would say is that the test should be used in conjunction with other tests, which is likely how it is used, anyway, rather than as a single diagnostic tool. It might also be used as a quick assessment tool in Europe to be followed up by the longer, more detailed personality and diagnostic tests such as the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory or MMPI, the Rorschach Inkblot test, and so on. However I give the book 4 stars for effort since it is a fascinating concept and could still be useful.	2005-02-14
351079:US	45193257	R2LLIJAZUHHPMU	038548254X	721618988	A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Unique little book	Dr. Paulos is a mathematician who likes to read and think about newspapers and their stories. He admits to having a sentimental fondness for several of them and to being an avid news junkie, despite conceding some of their faults. He admits the average paper may concentrate too much on the bad news and on political reportage and crime, sometimes making them look like nothing more than glorified police blotters.<br /><br />But there are other, more subtle ways in which newspapers can mislead. Because the selection of stories seems so diverse, disjointed, and unrelated--a tornado hits Kansas, an earthquake in Japan, a gang-related murder in L.A., a psychic in London predicts the end of the world, a story on global warming, a farmer in Korea grows the world's largest turnip--he feels they enourage the illusion of being well-informed by providing us with a snapshot, as it were, of the world beyond our own limited purview, when in fact, all one has done is read a disjointed collection of stories that might merely reflect the selection biases of the newspaper, or what stories they could actually obtain because the reporter was there and not somewhere else, vs. the more important ones that they couldn't, for whatever reason.<br /><br />Despite these shortcomings, Paulos finds newspaper stories a fascinating source of usually good information on many topics, and for the ones that don't, he finds they provide interesting food for the thought for a mathematician like himself, and he likes to use his mathematical and logical skills to show why a particular story's interpretation is probably false, misleading, or doesn't follow logically from the facts in the story. The book is devoted to showing how the application of simple mathematical and logical skills can provide insights into the real \\"facts\\" behind a news story.<br /><br />One of the best examples was a story in which it was claimed that black voters voted along racial lines for a particular mayorial candidate. (I don't recall the exact percentages, but I'll use a similar example to show how Paulos analyzes the statistics). Suppose 85% of blacks had voted for the black candidate. Does that support the story's claim? Paulos points out that the story failed to consider that most blacks are democatic, and the black candidate was a democrat. If 80% of blacks are democrats, that means only 5% more voted for the black candidate than one could expect based on that percentage, which is probably not very significant.<br /><br />Contrast that with the white situation. White voters are fairly evenly divided between republicans and democrats. If 70% voted for the republican candidate, that means that 20% more voted for the white candidate, and against the black candidate, than one would expect based on the distribution of party affiliation, which could be significant. Hence in this case, it's actually the white voters who appear to vote along racial lines than the blacks. Paulos shows how this kind of simple mathematical analysis can provide a useful foil to the often overly facile, unjustified, and distorted claims made in newspaper stories.<br /><br />One brief note on how to read the book. It's divided up into several sections, reflecting the typical format of most newspapers, which are:<br /><br /> 1. Politics, Economics, and the Nation<br /><br /> 2. Local, Business, and Social Issues<br /><br /> 3.  Lifestyle, Spin, and Soft News<br /><br /> 4. Science, Medicine, and the Environment<br /><br />There are so many examples in the book in each section that you could just read the section or two that interested you, or the stories that interested you, and you could still learn a lot.<br /><br />This book should be required reading for students and probably most adults in our increasingly illiterate and innumerate society. It's the only book I've ever seen on applying mathematical concepts to things as fuzzy and inexact as newspapers stories often are, and if someone had told me there was a book on it, I would have been sceptical, in the same way Paulos approaches each newspaper story with a healthy does of scepticism. In fact, the book really is about how to use simple math and logic and even common sense thinking to develop a healthy BS filter, probably a useful tool in many areas of life, in addition to reading the newspaper. Paulos has done a fine job and the book counts as one of the most interesting and practical applications of math and logic to everyday life that I've seen.er story with a healthy does of scepticism. In fact, the book really is about how to use simple math and logic and even common sense thinking to develop a healthy BS filter, probably a useful tool in many areas of life, in addition to reading the newspaper. Paulos has done a fine job and the book counts as one of the most interesting and practical applications of math and logic to everyday life that I've seen.	2005-02-13
352898:US	45193257	R254PLR0AKPL5F	1591840619	294791743	Overpromise and Overdeliver: The Secrets of Unshakable Customer Loyalty	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Sage advice	I agree with Barrera that customer service will drive many if not most American businesses from now on. The era of cost-cutting that we went through in the 90s is gone, where profitability was driven by becoming lean and mean. This is actually most of what drove the great bull market of the 90s, at least in the non-tech companies, and it even had an effect there too. After the last bear market, the worst since 1929, U.S. companies are about as lean and mean as they're ever going to get. One of the few ways they can increase market share and profitability is to improve customer service. This book looks at a number of outstanding success stories and analyzes how they were able to beat out the competition to establish their own preferred brands. There is a lot of good advice here for both big and small businesses. Increasing and improving customer service is also one way American businesses can stop the exodus of customer service type jobs to countries like India. Also, as a small businessman who started up or worked in several customer service oriented businesses over his career, I can tell you that if someone likes you, they'll tell 5 people, but if they don't like you, they'll tell more like 15-20 people. You can't afford to have that sort of negative word of mouth advertising if you're going to be a success. Barrera's book has some sage advice on how to avoid the pitfalls and how to do things right when it comes to customer service.	2005-02-11
354303:US	45193257	R3PH6CPKNUZTGQ	0595224725	508367728	The Art of War - Sun Tzu's Classic in Plain English With Sun Pin's : The Art of Warfare	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A few contrarian comments	This is a legendary book and has gotten a lot of play these days, from Wall St. to Hollywood types--including such notables as writer James Clavell. While I respect Clavell and am very familiar with the book, frankly, I don't see what all the commotion is about. The supposedly profound psychological principles that can be used to outwit your opponent, among many other strategems discussed, I found to be pretty elementary and not particularly astute. Perhaps for it's time this qualified as state of the art, but not anymore. Most of them are, or should be, pretty obvious.<br /><br />Sun Tzu's observations about military strategy also seemed of limited applicability today since they pertain to ground wars with very primitive weapons. For example, his point that one should obtain the superior vantage point and position from which to attack, while valid, would be understood today by the greenest officer just out of his military strategy and tactics course at the academy. There are some occasionally useful tidbits here, but overall, I suspect anybody trying to use these tactics in exactly the same way today in a confrontation with modern ground weapons wouldn't be a happy camper.<br /><br />To give just a couple of examples of this, in John Keegan's excellent book on the history of warfare, The Face of Battle, he points out that in the Battle of the Somme in World War I artillery accounted for 90 per cent of the casualties--not the infantry. The importance of artillery has continued to this day, something which didn't exist at all in Sun Tzu's time.<br /><br />As Keegan has pointed out, the first \\"modern\\" battle in the sense that it was the artillery that carried the day was in the 12th century Battle of Agincourt, where the much smaller English army using longbowmen decisively defeated a much larger French army, inflicting heavy casualties on the other side.<br /><br />Secondly, the greater speed, destructive power, and maneuverability of modern armies, especially in the case of mechanized armor, dictates that the overall strategy and details of ground engagements will be substantially different from those in Sun Tzu's time. (I could cite other examples, since we haven't even considered the advent of air power, but I'll leave it at that).<br /><br />The best way to appreciate this book is in the context of a classic that represented a high point in the military thinking of its time, but which has since been superceded. Basically this amounts to saying the work has historical value, and there is nothing wrong with that, but I wouldn't go too much further than that.<br /><br />Also (assuming the story is true), anybody who would behead two of the Emperor's most beautiful concubines because they giggled during a marching exercise for the Emperor is a real jerk and should apply for membership in the Nazi Hall of Fame (more like Hall of Shame).<br /><br />Finally, (and as seen from many of the reviews here) westerners continually misinterpret Oriental classics like this and apply them to situations where they are not applicable (and where even the Chinese wouldn't think of using them). This is a book about war, and has very little relevance to business.<br /><br />You'd think people would have taken a clue from the title, \\"The Art of War.\\" It's doesn't say, \\"The Art of Business.\\" What part of the title didn't they understand?<br /><br />For example, another reviewer very perceptively pointed out what is probably the worst problem with interpreting Sun Tzu's work in the light of business strategy, which is that the best strategy in business is a win/win situation: if I win and you lose, you will never do business with me again. I would certainly agree with this and again would reiterate that this is a book about war, not about business strategy.<br /><br />In fairness, I would sum up by saying Sun Tzu's book represents an important historical contribution, but it has been over- hyped far beyond its real worth to the modern reader, and inappropriately applied in other areas, such as business, where it has very little, if any, real relevance or value. (However, I give the book 3 stars for effort, since anybody who was as busy as Sun Tzu was who also managed to ride a book deserves some respect).<br /><br />(Brief postscript: Perhaps I would find B. H. Liddell-Hart's or Camille Clauswitz's books more profound as classics on war, as I did Kegan's books? I may try reading them and see if I find them more interesting and valuable than the Art of War. I have read articles about both books over the years, and they do seem more impressive, but I haven't actually read the originals yet. If I do, I will post a review on them on Amazon, as with the Sun Tzu book. Hopefully, I will have something more positive to say on these two also venerable classics.)odern reader, and inappropriately applied in other areas, such as business, where it has very little, if any, real relevance or value. (However, I give the book 3 stars for effort, since anybody who was as busy as Sun Tzu was who also managed to ride a book deserves some respect). <br /> <br />(Brief postscript: Perhaps I would find B. H. Liddell-Hart's or Camille Clauswitz's books more profound as classics on war, as I did Kegan's books? I may try reading them and see if I find them more interesting and valuable than the Art of War. I have read articles about both books over the years, and they do seem more impressive, but I haven't actually read the originals yet. If I do, I will post a review on them on Amazon, as with the Sun Tzu book. Hopefully, I will have something more positive to say on these two also venerable classics.)	2005-02-10
355226:US	45193257	R1D32FWX3DX83Z	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	5	10	16	N	N	A historical perspective on Diamond's historical perspective	This is a logical sequel to Diamond's previous book. Both these books are basically works in applied human geography in that Diamond seeks to correlate environmental and ecological factors with subsequent cultural and economic development, specifically with the rise and ultimate fall of that particular culture or civilization. (Also Diamond's book is much more readable than other authors in the field that I've read. (Those of you who know what von Thunen circles are will know what I'm talking about :-)).<br /><br />Diamond's book places him squarely in the context of that debate, and with other great historians such as Toynbee, Spengler, Edward Gibbon, John Bury, and J.S. Mill, who have also pondered the question of the rise and fall of civilizations. Drawing on diverse sources of evidence and on his broad and far-reaching knowledge of many cultures around the world, Diamond makes a compelling case for the claim that those cultures that failed to come to terms with the inexorable limitations of their environment ultimately decline or perhaps even cause their own premature demise. As others have commented, however, Diamond's thesis is not that environmental factors are the exclusive cause of such success or failure, but rather that failure to manage these resources sensibly can have serious enough effects on overall quality of life and standards of living, so that over time they can impair and degrade a society's well being enough to sometimes kill it off entirely, as in Easter Island, or damage it possibly beyond repair. The heavily polluted shores and areas around the Aral Sea in the former Soviet Union also come to mind.<br /><br />I saw this sort of devastation myself back in the early 80s when I drove across much of the former Eastern bloc countries, and saw landscapes in western Czechoslovakia that had been strip-mined to the point where it looked like a nuclear war had been fought. I saw dozens of abandoned factories and places that looked like ghost towns on the road to Prague from Pilsen. I almost turned back, but pressed on, and was pleased to see that Prague was actually a very beautiful city as I'd been told, despite what I had to drive through to get there.<br /><br />Diamond, however, is cautiously optimistic about American society although he sees many baleful influences and trends there that are cause for concern, such as deforestation. (I note that several people here were critical of this idea; in Diamond's defense I would point out that 80% of the U.S. forested areas have been logged since 1800 and less than half that has been replanted).<br /><br />Most historians will tell you that however admirable they might be, all of these attempts to arrive at such historical laws have basically been failures. They fall into that unfortunate category of great theories that were killed off by nasty little facts. However, at least Diamond is in distinguished company. For those of you who already know thinkers like Oswald Spengler, John Stuart Mill, and Arnold Toynbee, the attempt to find those deterministic factors that drive the success or failure of entire civilizations will already be a familiar idea.<br /><br />To just briefly recap (at the risk of a little digression) the history of this idea, Spengler thought that civilizations were analogous to living organisms, thriving when young but withering in old age; Mill thought that cultures went through positive and negative periods in their belief systems and ideologies, rising and falling on that basis; and Toynbee had the idea of \\"challenge and response,\\" which is just like it sounds. A civilization is confronted with certain challenges and problems during its development. If it succeeds in surmounting them, it grows and becomes more powerful; if it fails, as almost all do at some point, it declines and ultimately dies off. Diamond's book places him squarely in the middle of a historical debate and problem which many of the greatest historical minds have pondered andstruggled with for much of their careers.<br /><br />Lastly, Oxford historian Filipe Fernandez-Armesto is another important modern historian who has also pondered this problem, and whose agriculturally and ecologically influenced ideas are actually not that different from Diamond's. On a different note, Harvard social psychologist David McClelland found that a country's increasing prosperity and power correlated with the increasing prominence of the individual personality traits of achievement motivation, ability to defer gratification, and a positive work ethic.<br /><br />My take on this from my own reading of history (although I'm not a professional historian, merely an interested and well-informed amateur) is that the conditions and circumstances of each civilization and what ultimately led to its rise and fall, seem special or unique to that particular historical context, and probably wouldn't have worked out the same at a different time and place. Therefore, I am sceptical that general laws about the rise and fall of civilizations can be found, although I think there is a good deal of truth in the ideas of all these men. In that sense, it could be said that Toynbee's failure was greater than most other writer's successes.<br /><br />Of course, all civilizations must maintain a strong military and economy, otherwise they are simply overrun by their enemies. Providing that, however, it seems to me that it comes down to the fact that there is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has come. Great societies-- such as those of Old Kingdom Egypt, 2nd millenium B.C. Minoan civilization, Golden-Age Athens, early Renaissance Italy, or modern America, are built because people are galvanized by the ideas they embody and by the opportunities they create. The energy, dynamism, and enthusiasm this creates is what makes their rise to power possible and is what makes them great. When this is no longer the case, the formerly great society goes into decline. In that sense my own idea works out to sort of a combination of Mill's and McClelland's theories.<br /><br />My only criticism of the book is that his selection of cultures and civilizations that support his thesis, although diverse, includes many obscure ones that have left very little influence in the way of a legacy for succeeding civilizations, while ignoring those such as the Romans, Greeks, and so on, whose rise and fall don't seem to fit his criteria. But overall, it's a well-written, interesting, and thought-provoking book which will no doubt continue to fuel the debate about the sustainable and sensible use of the world's resources and the possible social consequences of failing to do so..    Lastly, Oxford historian Filipe Fernandez-Armesto is another important modern historian who has also pondered this problem, and whose agriculturally and ecologically influenced ideas are actually not that different from Diamond's. On a different note, Harvard social psychologist David McClelland found that a country's increasing prosperity and power correlated with the increasing prominence of the individual personality traits of achievement motivation, ability to defer gratification, and a positive work ethic.    My take on this from my own reading of history (although I'm not a professional historian, merely an interested and well-informed amateur) is that the conditions and circumstances of each civilization and what ultimately led to its rise and fall, seem special or unique to that particular historical context, and probably wouldn't have worked out the same at a different time and place. Therefore, I am sceptical that general laws about the rise and fall of civilizations can be found, although I think there is a good deal of truth in the ideas of all these men. In that sense, it could be said that Toynbee's failure was greater than most other writer's successes.    Of course, all civilizations must maintain a strong military and economy, otherwise they are simply overrun by their enemies. Providing that, however, it seems to me that it comes down to the fact that there is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has come. Great societies-- such as those of Old Kingdom Egypt, 2nd millenium B.C. Minoan civilization, Golden-Age Athens, early Renaissance Italy, or modern America, are built because people are galvanized by the ideas they embody and by the opportunities they create. The energy, dynamism, and enthusiasm this creates is what makes their rise to power possible and is what makes them great. When this is no longer the case, the formerly great society goes into decline. In that sense my own idea works out to sort of a combination of Mill's and McClelland's theories.    My only criticism of the book is that his selection of cultures and civilizations that support his thesis, although diverse, includes many obscure ones that have left very little influence in the way of a legacy for succeeding civilizations, while ignoring those such as the Romans, Greeks, and so on, whose rise and fall don't seem to fit his criteria. But overall, it's a well-written, interesting, and thought-provoking book which will no doubt continue to fuel the debate about the sustainable and sensible use of the world's resources and the possible social consequences of failing to do so.	2005-02-09
358395:US	45193257	R1HH8WIMCW2IR6	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not comprehensive but still useful	After majoring in biology and humanities and having been at least halfway literate at one point, I then spent the next 20 years of my career working with engineers and scientists who were far better at math but significantly worse at writing, grammar, and spelling, than I. Unfortunately, the influences seemed to flow only one way, and instead of my getter smarter mathematically and their becoming more literate, they stayed the same and I got dumber on the fine points of grammar and punctuation.<br /><br />So when I saw this book, I had to check it out, especially considering how unlikely a book on English punctuation is to end up a best-seller.<br /><br />I did enjoy the book, and it was more than adequate for giving some of my flagging grammar and punctuation skills a bit of a tune-up. Although not a more systematic book on punctuation or style like the well-known Chicago manual or some of the more forbidding references on English that I've seen, I still learned a lot and would recommend the book for anyone wanting something more readable on punctuation than the usual dry tome on the subject.<br /><br />However, if you're looking for something more in-depth or technical or a systematic exposition, this isn't it. The book's main strength is that it addresses many of the most common and glaring mistakes in people's writing today and the media and is useful for that. I didn't find the author's attempts at humor or wit very funny but as I don't exactly consider myself Robin Williams or Jay Leno, I didn't hold that against her. :-) Overall, it's a pretty good book for what it is and if our increasingly illiterate citizenry and mass media just knew what was in this book things would be, although perhaps not great, at least tolerable and better than they are now.	2005-02-07
358474:US	45193257	R294B3WG6VI351	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	3	20	23	N	N	A few comments	This is a readable and even engaging book on decision making, but although I sympathize with the author's main thesis about rapid judgments (people are often right about these, but then, they're often wrong, too), he's a little too facile in discussing some of the more technical psychology and neurobiology and whether that evidence truly supports his thesis. For example, as another poster here mentioned, the fusiform gyrus isn't a piece of software but is an anatomical area of the cerebral cortex. But Gladwell not being a trained neuroscientist I can forgive him for confusing anatomy with functionality.<br /><br />However, Gladwell's theory that accomplished experts in various fields can often intuit, or on the basis of very small \\"slices\\" of information, often make quick and very complex decisions is nothing really knew, and it might or might not have anything to do with the ability to make snap judgments in general. It could be that such experts are quite competent in a particular area that taps into their cognitive and analytical strengths but they are incapable of making such decisions in other areas. It's more likely that people who have the ability to make quick judgments in many areas function differently from those who don't. For example, I can make quick analyses and decisions in two or three areas that I know well, but in other areas of my life I have to sit down and think and deliberate more. All this means is that some decisions are information intensive and some aren't, and if you're skilled in a particular area you can function faster than someone who has to work more slowly through the relevant information or decision-making steps.<br /><br />Another important point to remember is that power doesn't always equate to speed, either. For example, it's said that Einstein wasn't a very quick thinker, but leave him alone with paper and pencil and his mind could go further than any physicist of his generation, because of his powerful analytical and visual/spatial skills. Hence, rapid decision making, although perhaps useful on the battlefield or at the yearly stockholder's meeting, doesn't necessarily equate to quality and depth which is probably more important in the long run. It's also sobering to consider that more and more we seem to be electing politicians on the basis of their ability to come up with facile and great-sounding 20-second sound bytes that are hardly a realistic test of a candidate's ability to actually lead, govern, or come up with new and viable policies and solutions to our social problems. By that criterion Einstein couldn't have gotten elected to his local city council. But he's definitely someone you'd want on your team because of his ability to think creatively and deeply about many problems.<br /><br />That having been said, much of the organization of the human brain relates to generalized, quick decision making, although mostly on a sensory processing level. The human brain is extremely adept at combining inputs from all the sensory modalities in real time and being able to select and make decisions on the most vital information. This is aided by multi-sensory and multi-associational neurons in the anterior parietal cortex just above and to the side of the visual cortical receiving areas. The technical jargon aside, this makes perfect commmon sense if you think about it. If something is stalking you and may eat you, and you hear a twig snap, well, it could be your buddy, or it could be a big tiger or other predator. All animals (including humans) know when to haul a_s and get the hell out of there when they see or hear or smell something suspicious. These sorts of sensory abilities make such quick, selective responses possible. This is actually the most convincing evidence for the sort of abilities Gladwell is writing about, but it's not discussed in the book.<br /><br />One other minor technical point, I also agree with the previous writer that I don't understand what the author means by rapid heartbeats shutting down the motor systems. Obviously, certain abnormal cardiac conditions can impair motor functioning (it only takes about a four-second interruption in blood flow to the brain to result in unconciousness, which would certainly tend to interfere with motor control :-)) But other than a heart attack or a loss of blood circulation to the brain or serious arhythmias, such as fibrillation, which, depending on whether they occur in the ventricles or the auricles, can be potentially fatal vs. merely annoying and slightly debilitating, I'm not aware of anything like that. However, I'm not a doctor (I'm a neurobiologist by academic training) so I don't claim to be an authority on that area.<br /><br />However, I give the book 3 stars for effort, and some of the stories and info was interesting.he motor systems. Obviously, certain abnormal cardiac conditions can impair motor functioning (it only takes about a four-second interruption in blood flow to the brain to result in unconciousness, which would certainly tend to interfere with motor control :-)) But other than a heart attack or a loss of blood circulation to the brain or serious arhythmias, such as fibrillation, which, depending on whether they occur in the ventricles or the auricles, can be potentially fatal vs. merely annoying and slightly debilitating, I'm not aware of anything like that. However, I'm not a doctor (I'm a neurobiologist by academic training) so I don't claim to be an authority on that area.    However, I give the book 3 stars for effort, and some of the stories and info was interesting.	2005-02-07
360001:US	45193257	R2G5V5K53179NB	B0006BQW4G	746789218	The Complete Book of Surfing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A blast from the past	This book was out of print for years and was recently reissued  in paperback. Back in the early 60s, my father, who knew Dixon, presented me with a signed copy of the first edition of the book, and I was thrilled. I was only about 13 years old but was an avid body surfer, and I remember devouring the book in just a few sittings. When I saw that there was a new edition, I had to review it just for old time's sake.<br /><br />This was before Dixon went on to write scripts for movies and for TV shows such as Flipper. He also wrote scripts for Sea Hunt and other TV shows and movies, and had a successful career as a scriptwriter in addition to his surfing activities. He also served as the editor of a couple of surfing magazines.<br /><br />For the time, this book was the best introduction to surfing available and still stands on its own (or on the surfboard) today. Dixon grew up surfing in the 40s and by the early 60s was already a 20 year veteran of the sport, and he wrote with authority. I especially remember the story of Iron Man Jim who road behind ocean liners all the way from Catalina to Long Beach on his heavy, redwood board back in the 30s. There were giants back in those days and Dixon recounts some of their stories.<br /><br />Dixon covers the history, from hundreds of years ago in Hawaii to today, basic surfing technique, board construction and design, and many other topics. The photos of big waves in Waimea, the Pipeline, Sunset Beach, and of the surfers riding them were great. Types of waves, surf hazards, how waves are formed and break (it requires about a 2/3 height ratio between the ocean bottom and the height of the wave for that to happen) are all discussed. Also, there's a section on body surfing in addition to board surfing. All in all a great classic that still has relevance today.	2005-02-06
360157:US	45193257	R1KPANVC6NBDFE	0865680795	138839773	Hapkido the Integrated Fighting Art	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Okay but could be better	I've heard good things about Mr. Spear's knowledge and skill but this book really doesn't show that in the best light in my opinion, although it might be adequate as a basic introduction to the art. I agree with the other comments here that the photos are a little dark and could be better, although they're not bad. However, the comments by another person here that the material seems a little skimpy is addressed by the author, when he says the material in each of the colored belt sections is only a sample of the actual syllabus.<br /><br />For someone without access to other material on Hapkido, this would probably be okay as an introduction. However, what with the advent of very high-quality videos on many martial arts, I find it amazing that anyone is still writing and publishing books on the martial arts. Many of these videos are available used on e Bay for less than one would pay for a new book, and one can actually see the martial arts in action and get some idea of what they are like in practice.<br /><br />However, there is some useful information here. The author says that Hapkido is a combination of the ancient tae kyun art and modern Japanese jiujutsu, which I always suspected. There was another early Korean art called soobak that could also have contributed, but there's no mention of that. But tae kyun was adopted for training the sons of the nobility in earlier centuries because of its reputation as an effective fighting art.<br /><br />After a brief history of the art, most of the book is divided into technique sections which give some of the required techniques for each belt rank, which are green blue, red, and black. There are also sections on cooling down exercises, pressure points of the human body, breakfalls, and some knife and club and weapons defenses.<br /><br />After looking at the pictures of knife defense, I would have to say this is not the system's strong suit. Knife defense and tactics are handled much better by the Indonesian systems of Silat and the Filipino kali/escrima systems, which are far more well known today than when this book was published back in 1987.<br /><br />One of the more interesting sections is on escape from chokes and throws, but only three are shown. This could have been a longer and much more interesting section. There is a brief presentation of upper level black belt techniques such as cane, short stick, and umbrella defense, which are some of the better material in the book.<br /><br />After 40 years of studying and teaching martial arts, Hapkido is one of the few arts I don't have at least some exposure to or formal background in. I would have been less impressed with the art had I not already had a Hapkido video that was quite good and showed how it looks in action, and it appeared to be an art with a good integration between hand and foot technique and locking and throwing. Even today there aren't many videos on the art available, but I've heard the one from Palladin Press is quite good although I haven't seen it personally.tems of Silat and the Filipino kali/escrima systems, which are far more well known today than when this book was published back in 1987. <br /> <br />One of the more interesting sections is on escape from chokes and throws, but only three are shown. This could have been a longer and much more interesting section. There is a brief presentation of upper level black belt techniques such as cane, short stick, and umbrella defense, which are some of the better material in the book. <br /> <br />After 40 years of studying and teaching martial arts, Hapkido is one of the few arts I don't have at least some exposure to or formal background in. I would have been less impressed with the art had I not already had a Hapkido video that was quite good and showed how it looks in action, and it appeared to be an art with a good integration between hand and foot technique and locking and throwing. Even today there aren't many videos on the art available, but I've heard the one from Palladin Press is quite good although I haven't seen it personally.	2005-02-05
361067:US	45193257	R3IFCFW1KTEFQ	0195202457	352431379	Egon Schiele (World of art)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent brief exposition on Schiele	This is a very well written and illustrated introduction to Schiele. The intro, which provides the historical background, painting the late Austro-Hungarian empire as a decadent and decaying civilization whose days were numbered, is quite entertaining in its discussion of the sexual politics of the day and how Schiele's decadent Vienna compared with other cities in that regard, such as Berlin (which is still not as sophisticated in the perversion dept. according to the author). This made it entertaining just by itself. In fact, Whitford says turn of the century Vienna was in some ways the most schizoid in terms of hiding its seamy underside behind a false veneer of surface moral probity, while the prosperous middle and upper class continued to enjoy an occasional forbidden tryst with a prostitute, in the meantime condemning the theories of Freud and Kraft-Ebbing for their unvarnished look at sexual issues. Schiele's paintings of wasted looking, dissipated, and in general unprepossessing figures seems to reflect a fin de siecle disaffection and alienation with this sort of hypocrisy, although the author points out that Vienna did have one saving grace, which is that the intellectual culture was one of the most progressive in Europe, and many of the famous names and revolutionaries of the period, from Stalin to Trotsky to Freud and many avant-garde writers and artists, met and knew each other there. I thought this was an interesting perspective and commentary on Schiele and his relationship to the culture of the period, and I enjoyed the book as much for that in addition to the many important examples of his work.	2005-02-05
361829:US	45193257	R1I1ELQ2KUPV2R	0830815155	450390841	Mere Creation; Science, Faith & Intelligent Design	Books	3	8	20	N	N	A few comments	I find it odd that Creationists and Intelligent Design proponents think that humans are so special and \\"highly evolved,\\" when they're really not. I mean, they are, in the sense that we're at the top of the animal kingdom, but that's not saying much. Humans are still very imperfect and poorly designed in many ways, exactly would one would expect from evolution, not a supreme deity. In some ways a cockroach, which can live without food and water for almost a year and is almost impossible to kill compared to a human, is far more impressive.<br /><br />For example, consider one of Behe's prime examples. Behe started much of the current debate with his book, Darwin's Black Box, so I'll use one of his major examples, and in fact it was the main lynchpin of his entire argument in the book about the case for intelligent design.<br /><br />Behe specifically claimed that the flagellar motor couldn't work if even one protein was missing, and that therefore it couldn't have evolved by chance, since dozens of seemingly specific and complex proteins comprise the motor. Unfortunately, he had no basis on which to make that claim. When it was looked at, it was found that up to 1/3 of the proteins could be missing--not exactly the kind of precise and closely engineered mechanism that implies intelligent design.<br /><br />It's the same with the blood clotting mechanism too. Behe claimed the very complex clotting process similarly couldn't have evolved because of it's complexity. Actually, the blood clotting mechanism has many poorly designed features and is really overly complex for what it actually does, which could be done much more simply had it actually been created by design. This is because it evolved piecemeal over time by means of evolution.<br /><br />For example, the blood clotting mechanism has a serious defect in that it varies between males and females in exactly the opposite of what one would expect. In men, the coronary arteries are susceptible to atherosclerotic plaque build-up as a result of increased platelet instability and adhesion, which doesn't happen in females. Hence, men seem specfically designed to have heart attacks as a result of a flawed mechanism in the blood-clotting process involving the platelets, which when ruptured, release the nerve-transmitter serotonin which causes spasming and contraction of the blood vessels to limit hemorrhaging. Certainly males, who are more likely to be involved in physical pursuits and such things as warfare need efficient blood-clotting--but they don't need heart attacks, either.<br /><br />The human brain is an area I know something about, that being my speciality, and the brain is another good example of poor design. The human brain is certainly very impressive in many ways, but it's far from perfect, and suffers from some serious design flaws. For example, tiny malfunctions such as strokes can cause huge or even fatal deficits in brain functioning. A good example is Broca's area on the lateral sulcus of the brain, which controls the motor movements of the face required for speech. It is a unilateral center and not even bilateral, and hence one stroke can knock it out completely and cause total aphasia and loss of speech. Small strokes in the occipital cortex can cause dyslexia, and very small strokes in the hippocampus, an area of the limbic system involved in memories, can cause devastating memory deficits. Again, not a very impressive picture for something that was supposedly \\"created by design\\" by a supreme deity.<br /><br />The human skeletal system also has many serious design flaws. For example, many knee problems would be eliminated if human and mammalian knees bent the other way (as in birds). The reason this is the case is that a bird's knee is actually it's ankle joint, but the same thing could have been done for mammals. The joints of mammals are also too small for the stresses placed upon them, and increasing their size by only 20 percent would provide enormous relieffrom many syndromes such as arthritis and normal age-related wear and tear.<br /><br />The heart is another organ that has a tremendously flawed design. Unlike the human brain, which at least has a few parallel backup circuits built-in, the heart has only two major conduction systems, the sino-atrial node and atrio-ventricular node, and a malfunction in the later can cause instant death and in the former can cause serious heart problems, although it's not fatal.<br /><br />All of these imperfections and flaws in design are exactly what one would expect of biological systems, which aren't very efficient or well-designed, but are actually rather messy with either too many redundant features, as in the flagellar motor, or insufficient with poor redundancy and backup features, as in the human brain and the heart, or under-designed and under-engineered and so inadequate for their task, such as the joints.<br /><br />Another way to think about this is, even if it were true that the molecular complexity of cellular mechanisms is so precise and specific that it couldn't have evolved by chance, that also implies that one very small flaw can bring down the entire system--which is often the case, too. So, is that an argument for intelligent design--or for evolution? It depends on whether you're concentrating on the things that were gotten right vs. the things that were gotten wrong. So at the very least, there is in fact no way to decide the issue in that sense. However, considering the designer was supposed to be God, who is supposed to be omniscient, the many flaws and single points of failure argue against that. (Even beginning engineering students understand not to design critical systems with single points of failure).<br /><br />So, to sum up, why the intelligent design types think such a poorly designed organism is grounds for positing an intelligent agent behind the design is beyond me. If there is, then perhaps God is just a beginning grad student in a God university somewhere in hyperspace and we're his first major research project, because he really doesn't know quite what he's doing yet. :-)<br /><br />But despite all these problems, I give the book 3 stars for trying.al age-related wear and tear.    The heart is another organ that has a tremendously flawed design. Unlike the human brain, which at least has a few parallel backup circuits built-in, the heart has only two major conduction systems, the sino-atrial node and atrio-ventricular node, and a malfunction in the later can cause instant death and in the former can cause serious heart problems, although it's not fatal.    All of these imperfections and flaws in design are exactly what one would expect of biological systems, which aren't very efficient or well-designed, but are actually rather messy with either too many redundant features, as in the flagellar motor, or insufficient with poor redundancy and backup features, as in the human brain and the heart, or under-designed and under-engineered and so inadequate for their task, such as the joints.    Another way to think about this is, even if it were true that the molecular complexity of cellular mechanisms is so precise and specific that it couldn't have evolved by chance, that also implies that one very small flaw can bring down the entire system--which is often the case, too. So, is that an argument for intelligent design--or for evolution? It depends on whether you're concentrating on the things that were gotten right vs. the things that were gotten wrong. So at the very least, there is in fact no way to decide the issue in that sense. However, considering the designer was supposed to be God, who is supposed to be omniscient, the many flaws and single points of failure argue against that. (Even beginning engineering students understand not to design critical systems with single points of failure).    So, to sum up, why the intelligent design types think such a poorly designed organism is grounds for positing an intelligent agent behind the design is beyond me. If there is, then perhaps God is just a beginning grad student in a God university somewhere in hyperspace and we're his first major research project, because hereally doesn't know quite what he's doing yet. :-)    But despite all these problems, I give the book 3 stars for trying.	2005-02-04
362094:US	45193257	R2C3LXFI1KL1PS	0140050221	900067865	Proust's Last Beer: A History of Curious Demises	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very entertaining	I'm surprised I'm the first person to review this book. It's an entertaining look at a very specialized aspect of history--how people met their timely--or perhaps, untimely ends. Actually, it's a great idea, and I'm surprised no-one thought of it before.<br /><br />Some of the people are famous, including presidents, famous scientists, writers, composers and artists, and so on. Others are more obscure. In fact, there were more names I didn't recognize than those I did, but then I'm not a historian. (But then, how many Americans remember anything about Zachary Taylor, who's mentioned in the book, and he was president).<br /><br />Some of the demises are funny, others are sad, and others are merely odd or interesting. The book covers hundreds of people, and the entries range from a few sentences to several paragraphs, depending on how complicated the events leading up to the person's death were, or how involved the death itself was. (After reading this book, I can only hope for a simple, uncomplicated death, lest someone think it worthy of being immortalized. In any case, I'm not that artistically creative, so hopefully the manner of my death won't be the one place where I succeed in doing something remarkably inventive or different. :-)<br /><br />There are so many people, both famous and obscure, here, that it was almost too many to absorb for my taste, but you could just look up the people you're interested in and read the book like that. Then branch out into the more obscure names later, some of whom had deaths far more notable than their accomplishments in real life. And some of the most famous people died quite ordinary, mundane, and fairly boring deaths. (Of course, trying to die a more exciting death conjures up some very odd fantasies, at least for me :-)).<br /><br />The book is well-written and fun to read, and if more history books were as entertaining as this one, more people would read it.	2005-02-04
362431:US	45193257	R16ES1I1RX3Z01	0816042411	127427822	Black Belt Tae Kwon Do: The Ultimate Reference Guide to the World's Most Popular Black Belt Martial Art	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent book on TKD	First, you should know this book is for the WTF style and forms, not the ITF, which is different. But whatever style you practice, all told, about 40 million people in 167 countries do TKD, making it probably the world's most popular martial art.<br /><br />I am mainly a karate, kung fu, and escrima practitioner and teacher these days, but I also have a black belt in TKD, and learned many of my most important lessons and basics from first studying TKD. My teacher was the great Ju Hwarn Kwark, who very few people know of, but he was possibly the greatest kicker and puncher I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot.<br /><br />The book starts with a brief history of TKD, the presents two brief chapters on basic techniques, prearranged sparring, and advanced techniques. The author discusses its popularity as a sport and much of the book seems aimed at helping a prospective instructor become competent enough to open his own school.<br /><br />Most of the book, however, is devoted to the forms. In fact, 142 pages of the book is just on that. So if you're looking for a book mainly on sparring and practical techniques this might not be for you, although there's a good chapter on that after the forms.<br /><br />There is also a section on self-defense, and several useful appendices, including rules of competition, weight divisions, referee signs, and a glossary of terms.<br /><br />One little piece of trivia. You may notice that the stepping pattern of the last form, Il Yo, follows a Swast_ka pattern--except the Oriental version of this is the reverse of the N_zi one. In fact, this symbol on maps in Japan denotes a Buddhist temple, and is a common Buddhist symbol.	2005-02-03
363429:US	45193257	R3D4RUJK4RCH1P	080483542X	134768588	Jeet Kune Do Basics (Tuttle Martial Arts Basics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent, well written book	I just had a few brief comments on this book.<br /><br />This is an excellent book on JKD. One thing that you'll notice right off is it's mostly text, rather than photos. Although basic and advanced techniques get illustrated and discussed, most of the book is devoted to actually explaining how to use them in a practical sense, which takes some doing. This practical, no-nonsense approach is one thing that distinguishes JKD from more traditional martial arts. For example, you won't just find a photo of a straight lead or rear lead or lead leg kick,  but you'll find discussions of when and how to use them, what situations work best for a given technique, how to combine it with footwork, use it as a counter punch or technique, and so on. The chapter on Distance, Timing, and Rhythm is one section where all of these things come together from a strategy standpoint, and this chapter is full of useful and practical information on that. The author also discusses sparring, safety considerations, how to find and evaluate a school and instructor, and so on. Many of the important points are illustrated or emphasized by pithy quotes from Lee himself. All in all, a fine book chock full of useful and wise advice from a seasoned practitioner, but much of the advice applies to just about any other type of martial art as well.	2005-02-03
363764:US	45193257	R2BBR96Y601BII	0385199732	974353151	Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology (Anchor Library of Science)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Now classic book	This was the first book intended for the general reader, if not the first book ever, on nanotechnology. At the time, no real nanotechnology existed, but since Drexler wrote the book the time has arrived perhaps even more than he envisioned himself, as nanotech methods and concepts have permeated almost every area of engineering and science.<br /><br />Drexler sets forth in very clear and concise terms what nanotechnology is and what the implications for the future will be. Although there are now dozens if not hundreds of books out on various aspects of nanotechnology, there remains no better introduction to the field that Drexler's original, very well written little book. He follow this with a much more technical exposition with the publication of his book, Nanotechnology, in 1991 (for which he was awarded his Ph.D. from M.I.T.)<br /><br />By the way, I've met Drexler on several occasions as he was a colleague of one of my friends, and martial arts students (I used to teach a karate and tae kwon do class at his house where Drexler would occasionally drop by and say hello). It goes without saying that he is a brilliant guy and I enjoyed getting a chance to talk to him a several occasions, although his intellect vastly exceeds my own (I'm not bad for someone who's basically an over-educated pugilist and martial artist :-)). I remember at the time Drexler had been invited to speak in Japan at a major convention and the Japanese were very interested in what he had to say. Now, of course, there are labs all over the world both here and overseas where nanotechnology is being researched and developed.<br /><br />Anyway, I apologize for the name-dropping but I just had to mention that. :-)	2005-02-02
363892:US	45193257	R68F4G1D2P6PS	081182652X	283078171	Maverick's: The Story of Big-Wave Surfing	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Visually appealing and well written	This is a fascinating look at the history and sport of big-wave surfing, focusing primarily on Maverick's but also discussing some of the other big-wave spots in the world, such as Todos Santos and Cortes Banks. If you have fond memories of the classic travel and surf-bum movie from the 60s, \\"The Longest Summer,\\" about great surf spots around the world, you'll probably enjoy this book.<br /><br />My review concentrates mainly on the dangers, since I was interested in researching that, but overall it's a beautifully illustrated and well-written account of the sport. The author starts with the early history back in the mid-1850s (when a legend has it that a Hawaiian was supposed to have ridden a tsunami back to shore).<br /><br />I was interested because I used to live for many years near Maverick's, one of the premier big-wave surfing spots in the world, and I was curious what it had to say. I've never been a board-surfer myself, but grew up in southern Cal and did a lot of body surfing when I was younger. One time, I foolishly tried to body-surf a storm-driven 18-footer at Gillis Beach in southern California and got ground into the bottom and held down long enough so I thought I might not get back up to the surface in time. But I survived, and am now older and wiser.<br /><br />I've had a few other misadventures, such as having been pulled out by a couple of riptides (including one that pulled me underneath the water briefly), so I've always had respect for the ocean, and I figured big-wave riding must surely be even more dangerous. Photos of lone surfers dwarfed by enormous waves have always amazed me and sent shivers up my spine, as I remembered my own scary encounter with a wave. Oddly enough, the author goes to some pains to dispell that notion by recounting various statistics and many anecdotal stories about the sport.<br /><br />For example, although it's possible for a big-wave to hold a surfer underwater long enough to drown, this is very rare. More likely is for a surfer at the more crowded small-wave sites to get knocked unconscious by someone else's board who wiped out and to drown that way. Or there's the possibility of an unsupervised and inexperienced surfer drifting into a strong riptide. And as the author says, \\"No big wave surfer ever tested the odds as boldly as the untrained, pot-bellied, beer-staggered, citizen body-surfer.\\"<br /><br />Mark Renneker, a UCSF physician and avid big-wave surfer, gathered data and compiled statistics on injuries and concluded that cheerleaders were injured more often than big-wave surfers.<br /><br />Peter van Dyke, another big-wave fan, had some other comments, pointing out that in one recent year, a half dozen Grand Prix racers were killed but not one surfer, and many more bull-fighters were killed. He said that big-wave surfers were so unconcerned about their fitness that they trained on \\"cake, Kool-Aid, ice cream, and cigarettes.\\" He also pointed out that the last surfer to die at Waimea was Dickie Cross back in 1943. By 1994, no-one had yet died at Maverick's (although that would soon change with Mark Foo's death).<br /><br />The book also contains a full chapter going into the events preceding and following Mark Foo's death. One of the things that becomes apparent there is that surfers aren't so much killed by the waves as by occasionally getting their ankle straps caught in underwater reefs so that they can't surface. Although no-one to this day knows what killed Mark Foo, it's possible this was part of it, and one of the other surfers had the same thing happen that very day, although he was able to get free just as he was running out of air and get to the surface.<br /><br />Still, because of the perceived dangers, out of 5 million surfers world-wide, only about 100 are regular big-wave riders.<br /><br />But as I said, the book also contains a more general discussion and history of the sport from the early days to the present, using Maverick's as its point of departure. There are many spectacular photos, including a fantastic two-page spread of Mike Parsons riding what's thought to be the largest wave ever ridden at Cortes Banks, an open ocean reef 100 miles to the west of San Diego.<br /><br />By the way, I agree with the previous reviewer about possible huge waves up in Alaska. In fact, in Puget Sound they sometimes get 60-foot waves, and they can get 20 or 30 foot waves at the mouth of the Columbia river in Oregon, where the Coast Guard trains captains in the heavy surf handling of boats. Also, off the tip of South Africa there is an area where, because of the way the ocean currents travel up from Antartica combined with a sea floor that funnels the wave energy, it's thought that 100-foot waves can occur. (In fact, it's one of the few places in the world where large ships occasionally disappear, and it's suspected huge \\"rogue waves\\" may be responsible). There was also the finding of the underwater quake that caused a tsunami to go 2000 feet up the mountainside at an uninhabited bay up the west coast of Alaska. No-one saw it but the devastation was so dramatic it wasn't hard to figure out the cause when it was discovered later.<br /><br />The largest wave ever recorded (at least by a reliable observer) was by the USS Ramapo back in the early 1930s. The ship was about 120 feet long and completely fit on the side of an enormous sea wave that passed under it in the mid-Pacific, and was estimated to be 134 feet high. Now that's a wave any surfer could envy.pread of Mike Parsons riding what's thought to be the largest wave ever ridden at Cortes Banks, an open ocean reef 100 miles to the west of San Diego.    By the way, I agree with the previous reviewer about possible huge waves up in Alaska. In fact, in Puget Sound they sometimes get 60-foot waves, and they can get 20 or 30 foot waves at the mouth of the Columbia river in Oregon, where the Coast Guard trains captains in the heavy surf handling of boats. Also, off the tip of South Africa there is an area where, because of the way the ocean currents travel up from Antartica combined with a sea floor that funnels the wave energy, it's thought that 100-foot waves can occur. (In fact, it's one of the few places in the world where large ships occasionally disappear, and it's suspected huge \\"rogue waves\\" may be responsible). There was also the finding of the underwater quake that caused a tsunami to go 2000 feet up the mountainside at an uninhabited bay up the west coast of Alaska. No-one saw it but the devastation was so dramatic it wasn't hard to figure out the cause when it was discovered later.    The largest wave ever recorded (at least by a reliable observer) was by the USS Ramapo back in the early 1930s. The ship was about 120 feet long and completely fit on the side of an enormous sea wave that passed under it in the mid-Pacific, and was estimated to be 134 feet high. Now that's a wave any surfer could envy.	2005-02-02
364339:US	45193257	RLXHUEY8XBL1R	0380010003	740600050	Interpretation of Dreams, The	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Classic contribution to psychoanalytic theory	Although Freud's ideas and psychoanalytic theory haven't fared that well in recent decades (Jung's views and reputation have actually done much better), there is no doubt that Freud's ideas were a major contribution to the understanding of human behavior and the mind and remain at least historically important today. Although perhaps superceded by the cognitive and neurobiological approaches that have developed in the last few decades, Freud was still a brilliant thinker who changed our undestanding of the mind for the better.<br /><br />For example, although his idea of the ego, super-ego, and id are now being supplanted by more physiological explanations (the limbic system of the brain being a very good analog to the id), nevertheless, basically what Freud was saying was that a shaping process goes on during early childhood that results in the formation of relatively enduring personality characteristics. There is no doubt that this developmental idea still has validity to this very day.<br /><br />However, while I certainly respect and admire many of the early psychologists, and they were great pioneers in many ways, and some of their ideas are still important, nevertheless, a lot of what they said has to be taken now with a considerable grain of salt, and the area of dream interpretation is one them. It doesn't mean that dreams are completely valueless, but they're of much less significance than has been claimed in the past. The most serious critique of the psycholanalytic (and others) view of dreams comes from recent research into the brain and neurobiology. The problem is that dreams are really not what people think at all most of the time--which is some sort of cyptic but profound message from the unconscious mind.<br /><br />For example, consider the question of why most dreams seem to consist of collections or sequences of difficult to interpret images, thoughts, and memories that seem to be combined or strung together in a not very logical and difficult to interpret fashion. The reason why, contrary to the popular belief that this reflects some profound and not easily discernible meaning, is that the order really is almost random, or is governed by very weak associational processes. The reason why this is, and why most dreams seem so puzzling and difficult to understand is that when you go to sleep, the memory areas of the brain located in the temporal cortex become more active through a process known as corticocipedal disinhibition, allowing memories, images, and thoughts to flood into consciousness willy-nilly. This is prevented or inhibited during normal waking, otherwise the flood of thoughts and images would interfere with normal memory retrieval and thinking processes.<br /><br />This is a little off the subject, but one area of pseudo or quasi-scientific theory and speculation that has been getting a lot of attention lately (and shows how much more sophisticated the more fantastically oriented or perhaps \\"mystically\\" oriented types in psychology are getting) is the idea that the brain is a \\"quantum computer\\" and uses quantum mechanical and even multi-dimensional spatial capabilities to do its work. At least one world-famous physicist and mathematician, Roger Penrose, has suggested it himself. (I critique Penrose's proposal on this in my Amazon review of his book, The Large, The Small, and the Human Brain).<br /><br />However, although a fascinating idea, there is still no real evidence that this is in fact the case. Neurobiologists have drawn analogies between devices like SQIDs (super-conducting quantum interference devices) and nerve cells, but this is reaching a bit.<br /><br />One main problem for me would be the noise factor. There is already a huge amount of random noise in the firings of nerves in the human brain and quantum mechanisms are far below the level of this noise. The brain seems to ignore the high noise level just fine and to operate pretty well despite it and so I don't see how quantum effectswhich would be far more subtle would have much of an effect.<br /><br />The other main problem is that the brain typically shows a huge amount of integration and convergence in its mechanisms, and phenomena at the level of quantum effects would probably just get lost in the overall convergence process or even the resting level of noise. Another way to think about it is how likely quantum effects are to manifest themselves at the molecular level, let alone the cellular level or the level of a neural circuit or the entire brain.<br /><br />So until there's some real evidence, I remain sceptical, and this is probably another \\"mystical\\" idea that will probably go the way of all the others.<br /><br />But anyway, getting back to the present book, that little digression was really by way of pointing out that unscientific speculation has been rife in psychology from its birth in the mid-19th century with thinkers such as Rudolph Lotze, Paul Brentano, Wilhelm Wundt, Johann Fechner, Hartmann and the Scottish faculty psychologists, Janet, Freud and the other psychoanalytic theorists, and many others. It's just getting harder for the layman to recognize this sort of thing when he sees it since their ideas are more and more taking on the language of physics and engineering and neurobiology. But that doesn't mean it's not the same old unfounded speculation and mystical nonsense.ntum effects which would be far more subtle would have much of an effect. <br /> <br />The other main problem is that the brain typically shows a huge amount of integration and convergence in its mechanisms, and phenomena at the level of quantum effects would probably just get lost in the overall convergence process or even the resting level of noise. Another way to think about it is how likely quantum effects are to manifest themselves at the molecular level, let alone the cellular level or the level of a neural circuit or the entire brain. <br /> <br />So until there's some real evidence, I remain sceptical, and this is probably another \\"mystical\\" idea that will probably go the way of all the others. <br /> <br />But anyway, getting back to the present book, that little digression was really by way of pointing out that unscientific speculation has been rife in psychology from its birth in the mid-19th century with thinkers such as Rudolph Lotze, Paul Brentano, Wilhelm Wundt, Johann Fechner, Hartmann and the Scottish faculty psychologists, Janet, Freud and the other psychoanalytic theorists, and many others. It's just getting harder for the layman to recognize this sort of thing when he sees it since their ideas are more and more taking on the language of physics and engineering and neurobiology. But that doesn't mean it's not the same old unfounded speculation and mystical nonsense.	2005-02-02
364506:US	45193257	R1HSQH9PBF0RHW	1886969353	480391615	The Essence of Shaolin White Crane: Martial Power and Qigong	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Another fine book by Dr. Ming	This is another of Dr. Ming's excellent books on the Chinese martial arts. I have many of them, including his complete video tape series on chin na, and regard his books and videos as a source of quality information.<br /><br />There are a number of crane and white crane styles, such as southern white crane, northern black crane, eastern Tibetan white crane, and at least four styles of southern white crane are known. All have their own unique stylistic qualities but share with the others a common core of crane techniques and an emphasis on both hard and soft aspects. The feeding crane is a form rather than a style, and the \\"vibrating crane\\" is a fa-jing or explosive chi energy technique. (I don't propose to get into a discussion of chi principles here or their validity, I just mention this for factual purposes).<br /><br />I should mention right off that despite the title, most of this book is actually about white crane chi gung principles and practice. In fact, 178 pages of the book are devoted to it. There are separate chapters on stationary soft, moving soft, stationary hard, and moving hard chi gung, and a related chapter covers Jin, or energy and power production. Only the last 55 or so pages are actually devoted to the martial applications, so if you're primarily interested in those, perhaps this book isn't for you. However, the photos showing the martial applications are very clear and of value also.<br /><br />One interesting thing I noticed was how combat realistic the hard, moving chi gung was. Just from the photos, it wasn't easily distinguishable from a real white crane kung fu form. Oddly enough, one of the chi gung postures resembled one from Indonesian Panca Indra Suci Pentjak Silat, an interesting coincidence.<br /><br />White Crane kung is considered to be an especially refined style of kung fu. It has had an important influence on karate styles such as Okinawan goju-ryu and shorin-ryu, and also Yamaguchi's Japanese goju-ryu has at least one hakutsuru or white crane form. (In fact, I once saw a film of Yamaguchi's funeral and one of his top students performed a white crane form in his honor). Three of these occur in a number of variations in the Okinawan styles. (It's known that aged masters taught different versions to different students on the same day. Whether this was the result of age-related memory deficiencies, shall we say, or some other factor isn't known.) The white crane master, Go Ken Ki, is usually credited with introducing these forms into the Okinawan karate styles.<br /><br />In addition to its influence on karate, white crane is important in the history of the Chinese arts not only for its own stylistic innovations, but also for its influence on tiger-crane styles such as Hung Gar and other five animals type styles, which incorporate the crane as one of the five animals (the others being dragon, snake, leopard, and tiger). There is also the older Ha Se Fu or \\"5 Lower Tigers\\" style, which contains a white crane form. Unlike Hung gar with its extremely long forms (the first form in Hung Gar is over 200 moves long), their forms are shorter and have only one for each animal, which is kept separate from the rest, rather than integrated, as in Hung Gar.<br /><br />In addition to the above, there is also a chapter on principles and concepts common to all kung fu styles (such as hard, soft, jin energy training, chi, and so on), and there is also a nice history of white crane and kung fu, including some interesting stories about legendary masters  and their exploits (which are basically de rigeur in any kung fu book).<br /><br />Overall, this is another fine book from master Ming emphasizing mostly the more advanced, internal chi gung training of white crane, which should be of interest mostly to intermediate and advanced students who already have some idea of the martial applications and perhaps want to know more about the internal aspects and mental training as well., I once saw a film of Yamaguchi's funeral and one of his top students performed a white crane form in his honor). Three of these occur in a number of variations in the Okinawan styles. (It's known that aged masters taught different versions to different students on the same day. Whether this was the result of age-related memory deficiencies, shall we say, or some other factor isn't known.) The white crane master, Go Ken Ki, is usually credited with introducing these forms into the Okinawan karate styles.    In addition to its influence on karate, white crane is important in the history of the Chinese arts not only for its own stylistic innovations, but also for its influence on tiger-crane styles such as Hung Gar and other five animals type styles, which incorporate the crane as one of the five animals (the others being dragon, snake, leopard, and tiger). There is also the older Ha Se Fu or \\"5 Lower Tigers\\" style, which contains a white crane form. Unlike Hung gar with its extremely long forms (the first form in Hung Gar is over 200 moves long), their forms are shorter and have only one for each animal, which is kept separate from the rest, rather than integrated, as in Hung Gar.    In addition to the above, there is also a chapter on principles and concepts common to all kung fu styles (such as hard, soft, jin energy training, chi, and so on), and there is also a nice history of white crane and kung fu, including some interesting stories about legendary masters  and their exploits (which are basically de rigeur in any kung fu book).    Overall, this is another fine book from master Ming emphasizing mostly the more advanced, internal chi gung training of white crane, which should be of interest mostly to intermediate and advanced students who already have some idea of the martial applications and perhaps want to know more about the internal aspects and mental training as well.	2005-02-02
365637:US	45193257	R2ZT0EUDI8PUBO	0691098964	428373980	Seminar on Dream Analysis. C.G. Jung (Jung Seminars) (v. 1)	Books	5	8	28	N	N	A few comments	I just had a few comments on this book. I cover a lot of ground in this review, ranging from depth psychology to neurobiology, so I apologize in advance for that, but most of it is relevant to the discussion of dreams and the brain.<br /><br />While I like Jung and am very familiar with his ideas, and notwithstanding the fact that he has faired better than Freud as far as his long-term reputation goes in recent decades (and he's certainly a better authority than most to cite here), he still has that fascination with dreams which he and many depth psychologists of the day inherited from the 19th century European mystical and early psychological tradition.<br /><br />Unfortunately, in contrast to previous decades (especially the pre-60s era) where Freudian therapists were all the rage and were portrayed in films like Mirage (which starred Gregory Peck and Ingrid Bergman) and Psycho as heros engaged in life or death battles with the dark forces of the subconscious, psychotherapy and psychoanalytic theory has not faired that well scientifically in recent decades, and the obsession with dreams is another aspect of their focus which hasn't worked out very well, either.<br /><br />So, while I certainly respect and admire many of the early psychologists, and they were great pioneers in many ways, and some of their ideas are still important, nevertheless, a lot of what they said has to be taken now with a considerable grain of salt. It doesn't mean that dreams are completely valueless, but they're of much less significance than has been claimed in the past.<br /><br />However, the most serious critique of the psycholanalytic (and others) view of dreams comes from recent research into the brain and neurobiology. The problem is that dreams are really not what people think at all most of the time--which is some sort of cyptic but profound message from the unconscious mind.<br /><br />For example, consider the question of why most dreams seem to consist of collections or sequences of difficult to interpret images, thoughts, and memories that seem to be combined or strung together in a not very logical and difficult to interpret fashion. The reason why, contrary to the popular belief that this reflects some profound and not easily discernible meaning, is that the order really is almost random, or is governed by very weak associational processes. The reason why this is, and why most dreams seem so puzzling and difficult to understand is that when you go to sleep, the memory areas of the brain located in the temporal cortex become more active through a process known as corticocipedal disinhibition, allowing memories, images, and thoughts to flood into consciousness willy-nilly. This is prevented or inhibited during normal waking, otherwise the flood of thoughts and images would interfere with normal memory retrieval and thinking processes.<br /><br />This explanation wasn't understood until about 30 years ago and comes from important research into the neurobiology of dreaming and consciousness. Most people, though, still have these old, pre-scientific notions that they have some sort of profound significance. If you're under a lot of stress, such as on the job, or whatever, and you dream that your boss just fired you, okay, that's different. Obviously the dream has some relation to reality (which in this case shouldn't be that hard to figure out).<br /><br />But most of the time the dream will be something like the following: boss calls you into his or her office and tells you to fly away with him in a great, golden chariot with six magical, flying, white horses on a secret mission into the future, or the past, or whatever. So you do. At that point you wake up and think to yourself, \\"What the hell did that mean? I don't know but it must be something very profound. It must mean my boss really likes me after all, and that I'm destined to do great things on the job since we flew off together into the sunset in this great chariot drawn by six flying, white horses.\\"<br /><br />Unfortunately, the simple fact is that the dream doesn't really mean anything. It means you had a dream that used as its point of departure your boss or job, since that's what's currently on your mind, but after that, the free-associational flow of dream images and thoughts took over and produced the usual semi-nonsensical concatenation of dream images and thoughts.<br /><br />I realize this explanation won't appeal to many people, but as someone wiser than I once said, \\"God is a mathematician, and so the universe works according to physical and biological laws, rather than as mystics, poets, lovers, romantics, and New Agers (and adherents of other touch-feely philosophies and beliefs), would have liked.\\"<br /><br />Despite that, I give the book five stars in recognition of Jung's tremendous historical importance to the field of psychology, especially his work in archetypes which has influenced countless of other writers and thinkers such as Joseph Campbell.is that the dream doesn't really mean anything. It means you had a dream that used as its point of departure your boss or job, since that's what's currently on your mind, but after that, the free-associational flow of dream images and thoughts took over and produced the usual semi-nonsensical concatenation of dream images and thoughts.    I realize this explanation won't appeal to many people, but as someone wiser than I once said, \\"God is a mathematician, and so the universe works according to physical and biological laws, rather than as mystics, poets, lovers, romantics, and New Agers (and adherents of other touch-feely philosophies and beliefs), would have liked.\\"    Despite that, I give the book five stars in recognition of Jung's tremendous historical importance to the field of psychology, especially his work in archetypes which has influenced countless of other writers and thinkers such as Joseph Campbell.	2005-02-01
365935:US	45193257	R3DYBQ2SMBLURW	0897500482	891672634	Tao of Jeet Kune Do	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A few comments	One thing that struck me right away about Lee's approach in this book (as well as most of his others) is how he spends as much or maybe even more time discussing strategy and other advanced principles rather than specific techniques. This is because Lee expected those who read his books to at least have mastered the basics of blocking, punching, and kicking before trying to learn the more advanced technical and strategy principles.<br /><br />For example, although the chapter on \\"Tools,\\" in which he discusses the techniques, is 40 pages long, the chapter on \\"Qualities\\" is 38 pages, in which he discusses various principles like speed, power, timing, and so on, and the \\"Attack\\" chapter is 36 pages, which is 74 pages right there, and doesn't include the other similar chapters in the book.<br /><br />There is so much material here that it's hard to summarize, but I enjoyed many things about it, such as the little technical tips like, \\"The essence of any hook is that the striker raises his elbow at the last possible moment when swinging, to attack strategies, such as \\"Do not hurl yourself at your oponent, but gain and maintain distance in a calm and precise manner.\\" And also \\"Nothing bothers an adversary more than variety in both attack and defense.\\"<br /><br />The cover says that the book has sold over 750,000 copies in 9 languages, an interesting statistic. (I'm surprised it's not over a million). In addition to Lee's thoughts and notes on technique and advanced strategy, there is even an extensive illustration of grappling and ground techniques and holds and locks, an interesting technique area by itself that has gotten more attention in recent years. Bruce shows that he was ahead of his time in integrating this with JDK decades ago.<br /><br />Lee also makes the important point that in JKD there is almost no, if any, direct attack--they are all indirect after a feint or as a counter-punch or technique--but that requires the ability to draw out an opponent, out-maneuver him, and a scientific approach.<br /><br />Another nice technical point he makes is, \\"In all hand techniques, the hand moves first, proceding the foot. Keep this in mind--hand before foot--always.\\"<br /><br />I find this interesting in that in tai chi and some kung fu, the foot is expected to be just as fast as the hand and to move in synchrony with it--as difficult or as impossible as that may seem.<br /><br />Bruce Lee only wrote six books, but if there's a bible of JDK this is it, and is probably essential reading for any JKD or any other martial artist interested in Lee and his ideas and what made him so great.ch.     Another nice technical point he makes is, \\"In all hand techniques, the hand moves first, proceding the foot. Keep this in mind--hand before foot--always.\\"    I find this interesting in that in tai chi and some kung fu, the foot is expected to be just as fast as the hand and to move in synchrony with it--as difficult or as impossible as that may seem.    Bruce Lee only wrote six books, but if there's a bible of JDK this is it, and is probably essential reading for any JKD or any other martial artist interested in Lee and his ideas and what made him so great.	2005-02-01
366245:US	45193257	R28TIQVI70EIKV	0953176665	535892810	Jeet Kune Do: Hardcore Training & Strategies Guide	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Fine book by one of the greats	For those of you who know Mr. Hartsell, he needs no introduction, but he's one of the Lee's original inner circle of JKD students and is also an excellent grappler. So he combines the best of outfighting and infighting techniques in his personal approach. I've never had the chance to train with Mr. Hartsell myself, but I had the opportunity to buy the Wisconsin summer camp training tape featuring him, Danny Innosanto, Paul de Thouars, and Sirisute a few years ago, and it was excellent. So when I saw this book I thought I would check it out.<br /><br />Mr. Hartsell is no longer a young man and has been doing martial arts for probably 40 years (like me). I like guys like that since after four decades one knows what works and what doesn't, and one can distill the essence of one's art down to the most effective and essential and practical principles. It's fun to do the fancy stuff and moves and combos, and I sometimes show off a little bit too during my workouts and teaching. But when pressed, I resort to simple techniques which will work in almost any situation, but which require a good foundation in the basics.<br /><br />Mr. Hartsell has done the same in this book about JKD. He is old and wise now in the ways of the fistic arts. As someone once said, \\"old age and trickery beats youth and strength.\\" Mr. Hartsell presents the main aspects of JKD, from basic techniques to trapping and energy drills, wooden dummy, JKD sparrying, and basic and advanced strategies and tactics. As I said, one thing that impressed me was that he didn't try to write an exhaustive presentation of JKD, but rather has set down the most important concepts and techniques.<br /><br />One controversial area of JKD and Wing Chun is trapping. As you may know, Lee during his last years decided trapping wasn't as effective as claimed and got away from it, and I even heard he stopped teaching it as part of the standard curriculum, a major change from the early days when trapping was part of the original \\"Chinatown curriculum.\\" However, Hartsell addresses that issue too. There is a time and place for everything, and many things in the martial arts are situational rather than universal principles, and trapping is one of them, and Hartsell discusses the issues relating to trapping and how to deal with them.<br /><br />My favorite part of the book was the section on advanced sparring skills and how to deal with various opponients, such as western boxer, wrestler, Thai boxer, streetfighter, and so on. There is some very practical advice here. Lee was nothing if not a profound strategist, and that approach is reflected here in this section.<br /><br />Finally, there is a nice section showing the intial attack, and proceeding from there to counters, strikes and kicks, holds and chokes, and takedowns, covering the entire sequence of ranges and techniques, and from standing to ground-based arts. Also, there is an appendix done in Question and Answer format where Mr. Hartsell deals with specific questions and issues there, such as \\"How to cultivate a killer instinct,\\" and more details on strategies for different fighters, such as tall, big, fast, slow, \\"hit and run fighters,\\" and many other topics.<br /><br />I had one last piece of advice, which is that if you're a novice this book should be used in conjunction with a video or videos on JKD showing the actual drills and techniques, of which there are many out there. It would be difficult to pick these up just from the photos. Steve Grody has done an excellent series specifically on trapping skills, and others have done video series covering the more general JKD curriculum. In fact, you can often find these used at bargain prices on e Bay. You might have to check the auctions there for a few weeks to find some, but eventually you should be able to get them. If you're an experienced JKD practitioner you shouldn't have any trouble following the photos.iginal \\"Chinatown curriculum.\\" However, Hartsell addresses that issue too. There is a time and place for everything, and many things in the martial arts are situational rather than universal principles, and trapping is one of them, and Hartsell discusses the issues relating to trapping and how to deal with them. <br /> <br />My favorite part of the book was the section on advanced sparring skills and how to deal with various opponients, such as western boxer, wrestler, Thai boxer, streetfighter, and so on. There is some very practical advice here. Lee was nothing if not a profound strategist, and that approach is reflected here in this section. <br /> <br />Finally, there is a nice section showing the intial attack, and proceeding from there to counters, strikes and kicks, holds and chokes, and takedowns, covering the entire sequence of ranges and techniques, and from standing to ground-based arts. Also, there is an appendix done in Question and Answer format where Mr. Hartsell deals with specific questions and issues there, such as \\"How to cultivate a killer instinct,\\" and more details on strategies for different fighters, such as tall, big, fast, slow, \\"hit and run fighters,\\" and many other topics. <br /> <br />I had one last piece of advice, which is that if you're a novice this book should be used in conjunction with a video or videos on JKD showing the actual drills and techniques, of which there are many out there. It would be difficult to pick these up just from the photos. Steve Grody has done an excellent series specifically on trapping skills, and others have done video series covering the more general JKD curriculum. In fact, you can often find these used at bargain prices on e Bay. You might have to check the auctions there for a few weeks to find some, but eventually you should be able to get them. If you're an experienced JKD practitioner you shouldn't have any trouble following the photos.	2005-01-31
367072:US	45193257	RS7VBNPDI5G06	1570717087	580273029	The Complete Dream Book	Books	3	18	41	N	N	A few comments	Although there is some useful information here, and I give Dr. Holloway some credit for going to the trouble of compiling her database of 18,000 dreams and trying to correlate dreams and dream images with such things as stages of life and so on, the problem is that dreams are really not what people think and usually far too much significance is attached to them.<br /><br />For example, consider the question of why most dreams seem to consist of collections or sequences of difficult to interpret images, thoughts, and memories that seem to be combined or strung together in a not very logical and difficult to interpret fashion. The reason why, contrary to the popular belief that this reflects some profound and not easily discernible meaning, is that the order really is almost random, or is governed by very weak associational processes. The reason why this is, and why most dreams seem so puzzling and difficult to understand is that when you go to sleep, the memory areas of the brain located in the temporal cortex become more active through a process known as corticocipedal disinhibition, allowing memories, images, and thoughts to flood into consciousness willy-nilly. This is prevented or inhibited during normal waking, otherwise the flood of thoughts and images would interfere with normal memory retrieval and thinking processes.<br /><br />This explanation wasn't understood until about 30 years ago and comes from important research into the  neurobiology of dreaming and consciousness. Most people, though, still have these old, pre-scientific notions that they have some sort of profound significance. If you're under a lot of stress, such as on the job, or whatever, and you dream that your boss just fired you, okay, that's different. Obviously the dream has some relation to reality (which in this case shouldn't be that hard to figure out).<br /><br />But most of the time the dream will be something like the following: boss calls you into his or her office and tells you to fly away with him in a great, golden chariot with six magical, flying, white horses on a secret mission into the future, or the past, or whatever. So you do. At that point you wake up and think to yourself, \\"What the hell did that mean? I don't know but it must be something very profound. It must mean my boss really likes me after all, and that I'm destined to do great things on the job since we flew off together into the sunset in this great chariot drawn by six flying, white horses.\\"<br /><br />Unfortunately, the simple fact is that the dream doesn't really mean anything. It means you had a dream that used as its point of departure your boss or job, since that's what's currently on your mind, but after that, the free-associational flow of dream images and thoughts took over and produced the usual semi-nonsensical concatenation of dream images and thoughts.<br /><br />I realize this explanation won't appeal to many people, but as someone wiser than I once said, \\"God is a mathematician, and so the universe works according to physical and biological laws, rather than as mystics, poets, lovers, romantics, and New Agers (and adherents of other touch-feely philosophies and beliefs), would have liked.\\"<br /><br />So, as I said, although I commend the author for her efforts and research, unfortunately she doesn't seem to be aware of the more rigorous neurobiological research on dreams and how they really originate from brain mechanisms relating to consciousness, memory, and sleep. (But I give the book three stars for effort).great, golden chariot with six magical, flying, white horses on a secret mission into the future, or the past, or whatever. So you do. At that point you wake up and think to yourself, \\"What the hell did that mean? I don't know but it must be something very profound. It must mean my boss really likes me after all, and that I'm destined to do great things on the job since we flew off together into the sunset in this great chariot drawn by six flying, white horses.\\"     Unfortunately, the simple fact is that the dream doesn't really mean anything. It means you had a dream that used as its point of departure your boss or job, since that's what's currently on your mind, but after that, the free-associational flow of dream images and thoughts took over and produced the usual semi-nonsensical concatenation of dream images and thoughts.    I realize this explanation won't appeal to many people, but as someone wiser than I once said, \\"God is a mathematician, and so the universe works according to physical and biological laws, rather than as mystics, poets, lovers, romantics, and New Agers (and adherents of other touch-feely philosophies and beliefs), would have liked.\\"    So, as I said, although I commend the author for her efforts and research, unfortunately she doesn't seem to be aware of the more rigorous neurobiological research on dreams and how they really originate from brain mechanisms relating to consciousness, memory, and sleep. (But I give the book three stars for effort).	2005-01-31
381725:US	45193257	R3BZUSVT9SJIY	0028644719	464884011	Complete Idiot's Guide to Submarines (The Complete Idiot's Guide)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun and interesting	For anyone who fondly remembers first seeing classic sub movies like Run Silent, Run Deep, Torpedo Alley, The Enemy Below, Das Boot, and the Hunt for Red October, and who's always wanted to understand in more detail how a real submarine operates, this is the book for you. It covers in fascinating detail many aspects of nuclear subs and pre-nuclear age subs.<br /><br />The author compares WWII era subs to modern subs, explaining how WWII subs were really surface boats in tems of hull and prow design that could submerge, while modern nuclear subs are really true underwater boats. WWII era subs were faster on the surface and usually travelled that way, only diving to attack or avoid detection. Nuclear subs were the first boats designed from the ground up for underwater running and they are faster underwater as a result than on the surface.<br /><br />The author gives detailed accounts of many of the main systems and operational details of subs, including design and construction of the hull to withstand the pressures of dives, seawater and freshwater safety and shutdown systems, especially for the nuclear reactors, navigation and steerage, electrical and hydraulic systems, and especially those related to compensating for leaks at depth and \\"scramming\\" or emergency shutdown of the reactor, a lot of discussion about the nuclear reactor and related systems itself, and even on living quarters, the galley, food, and even creature comforts.<br /><br />For example, there is an interesting account of Admiral Rickover's development of the first nuclear submarine, the Nautilus. Although state of the art technologically in many ways and the first nuclear ship ever, and the one that ushered in the nuclear navy, the boat was in many ways a product of the 50s in having an old-fashioned brass tube internal commmunication system, vending machines, a nickle-operated jukebox, and a movie room. It also had good air-conditioning.<br /><br />The author worked for the legendary, brilliant and eccentric Rickover and tells many stories about him, and about the development of the Nautilus, as well as the Albacore, the research sub that contained no armament but which tested and pioneered dozens of important concepts and innovations that were implemented on later boats, such as the Skipjack, the first sub designed from the ground up to be faster underwater than on the surface. Rickover's nuclear program became the most elite area of the Navy and recruits often found that Rickover was assigning them 20-40 hours of extra study and homework outside of normal duties to bring them up to speed on the systems and technology if he didn't think they were already good enough.<br /><br />The author even discussed Rickover's high-pressure interviews and idiosyncracies about accepting or rejecting candidates, which are interesting and entertaining by themselves, although they probably weren't to the poor, beleaguered candidates, who Rickover would glower at, ask them difficult engineering questions in rapid-fire style, rail at them if they couldn't measure up, lock them up in a cubicle all by themselves to try to rattle them if they didn't answer fast enough and so they could resonsider their answers, then tell them to get the hell out of his office. The author recounts his harrowing experience of being interviewed by Rickover. He was accepted although Rickover decided he didn't know enough about Shakespeare (the questions weren't limited to science and engineering) and to write him a book report every month on a play.<br /><br />Another interesting section is the one on the Thresher incident. There has never been an official report released on the accident but the author discussed the one that he heard that was passed on by word of mouth. It appears to have been the result of a pressure leak that damaged the reactor when the sub went down to test depth and could not withstand the pressure. There are several other accounts of the disasters that befell Russian nuclear submarines, such as the Komsomolets and others, that often sank as a result of electrical and other fires (electrical fires being more common on Russian than U.S. boats, where they were almost unheard of).<br /><br />One thing I liked about the book is the author discusses how much knowledge it really takes to operate a nuclear submarine, and what the many hazards and dangers are. For example, the engineering officer of the watch must know exactly which section of the hydraulic piping to shut down during a serious pressure leak or the sub could be lost right then if he makes a wrong decision. Some of the nuclear reactor disasters and incidents that illustrate the problems and dangers of operating a nuclear reactor are discussed also, such as the Chernobyl incident.<br /><br />Overall, a very fun, interesting, and detailed book on many aspects of submarine operations, history, technology, including many details on the dangers and hazards of submarine operations from the pre-nuclear to the nuclear era. You'll also learn a lot of submarine style slang, and not all of it related to the technology of submarines.  (For example, \\"sliders\\" are the hamburgers from the galley that slide down your throat as a result of the grease they're cooked in :-))., that often sank as a result of electrical and other fires (electrical fires being more common on Russian than U.S. boats, where they were almost unheard of).    One thing I liked about the book is the author discusses how much knowledge it really takes to operate a nuclear submarine, and what the many hazards and dangers are. For example, the engineering officer of the watch must know exactly which section of the hydraulic piping to shut down during a serious pressure leak or the sub could be lost right then if he makes a wrong decision. Some of the nuclear reactor disasters and incidents that illustrate the problems and dangers of operating a nuclear reactor are discussed also, such as the Chernobyl incident.     Overall, a very fun, interesting, and detailed book on many aspects of submarine operations, history, technology, including many details on the dangers and hazards of submarine operations from the pre-nuclear to the nuclear era. You'll also learn a lot of submarine style slang, and not all of it related to the technology of submarines.  (For example, \\"sliders\\" are the hamburgers from the galley that slide down your throat as a result of the grease they're cooked in :-)).	2005-01-19
385677:US	45193257	R3PP8L0D18SZ96	0312186134	165242153	Death in the Long Grass: A Big Game Hunter's Adventures in the African Bush	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great classic of adventure writing	Capstick's memoirs of his adventures as a hunter are legendary and were eagerly read by millions of readers in the magazines and books where he first published his stories. In this book he recounts numerous suspenseful and harrowing tales of hunters of the 7 big game animals in Africa--lion, elephant, leopard, cape buffalo, hippo, crocodile, and rhino, as well as some minor ones, including hyenas and snakes--only as Capstick says--the hunters sometimes ended up as the hunted.<br /><br />One brief note, Capstick first started out as an independent hunter, but eventually gained enough experience to lead safaris and start up his own hunting safari operation, becoming at that point a \\"professional white hunter,\\" or \\"PWH\\" as it's known in the trade. However, this name refers to any non-African professional game hunter and so doesn't necessarily refer to being white. During this time, Capstick got to know many famous hunters whose exploits, in addition to his own, he recounts in this book.<br /><br />There are so many stories here that I'll just limit myself to the ones about lions. One fascinating part is his tales of hunters who killed known man-eaters who had often eaten dozens or even hundreds of victims before being finally dispatched. Many of these hunters, such as J.H. Patterson, operated back in the days of the so-called belted magnums in the early part of the last century, long before modern elephant guns and hunting rifles were created.<br /><br />The great man-eating lion hunter, George Rushby, starting in 1942, began hunting one such pride. In the two years of hard work it took him to track down all the lions and kill the pride, the lions added another 249 confirmed human kills to their total.<br /><br />However, that total pales in comparison to the Njombe man-eaters, perhaps the most infamous pride of all, who killed 1500 natives and colonists before Rushby finally killed them all. Rushby is justly famous for his exploits and his story made for truly fascinating reading.<br /><br />Capstick also recounts the adventures of Lt. Col. J.H. Patterson, another legendary figure of the early 1900s whose book is also famous. Patterson is famous as the hunter who killed the man-eaters of Tsavo who were killing the Indian coolies brought in to build the Ugandan railroad, also known as the \\"Lunacy Express.\\" As Capstick, says, the lions treated the whole affair as one big, long, human buffet, killing more people than were used in the shooting of the movie, \\"Bhowani Junction\\" (although it doesn't say how many that was).<br /><br />Some areas of Africa are more prone to have man-eaters than others. Another of the most dangerous areas is the Luangwa Valley of Zambia (formerly N. Rhodesia). Peter Hankin, one of the most respected white hunters in Africa, was killed there by a man-eater after a long and distinguished career.<br /><br />Capstick points out that the risks of man-eaters are often downplayed by officials and by the governments for fear of scaring off tourists. One time, Capstick found that in just on six month period as a professional hunter in Zambia, he learned of six cases of man-eating in just one concession of 20 by 60 miles, but which was not publicized.<br /><br />One more comment if you're going to read this book, which is that Capstick includes very accurate, detailed, and often gruesome descriptions of the eaten victims. He points out that very often lions consume the entire body, including blood-stained clothes, leather boots, and the bones. I have to admit I read those parts with a sort of queasy and morbid fascination. However, in the course of reading this book you will also learn a lot about the dangers and risks of big game hunting and how some of the best plied their trade. It was very interesting to learn about some of the skills needed and about the fatal mistakes or near fatal mistakes to avoid.recounts the adventures of Lt. Col. J.H. Patterson, another legendary figure of the early 1900s whose book is also famous. Patterson is famous as the hunter who killed the man-eaters of Tsavo who were killing the Indian coolies brought in to build the Ugandan railroad, also known as the \\"Lunacy Express.\\" As Capstick, says, the lions treated the whole affair as one big, long, human buffet, killing more people than were used in the shooting of the movie, \\"Bhowani Junction\\" (although it doesn't say how many that was).    Some areas of Africa are more prone to have man-eaters than others. Another of the most dangerous areas is the Luangwa Valley of Zambia (formerly N. Rhodesia). Peter Hankin, one of the most respected white hunters in Africa, was killed there by a man-eater after a long and distinguished career.    Capstick points out that the risks of man-eaters are often downplayed by officials and by the governments for fear of scaring off tourists. One time, Capstick found that in just on six month period as a professional hunter in Zambia, he learned of six cases of man-eating in just one concession of 20 by 60 miles, but which was not publicized.    One more comment if you're going to read this book, which is that Capstick includes very accurate, detailed, and often gruesome descriptions of the eaten victims. He points out that very often lions consume the entire body, including blood-stained clothes, leather boots, and the bones. I have to admit I read those parts with a sort of queasy and morbid fascination. However, in the course of reading this book you will also learn a lot about the dangers and risks of big game hunting and how some of the best plied their trade. It was very interesting to learn about some of the skills needed and about the fatal mistakes or near fatal mistakes to avoid.	2005-01-16
388931:US	45193257	RZAJ22R25X2MD	0340790474	213858119	Volcanoes (Teach Yourself Books)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the best geology books I've read	This is a very cool book on volcanoes. It's well written, informative, and very interesting. I agree with the other comment here that it's easily accessible by the layman and explains everything in language you can understand. The explanations are clear and concise.<br /><br />The book is notable for several other reasons. Besides the usual chapters on basic vulcanology and geology, where the types of volcanoes, structure of volcanoes, and so on is discussed, much of the book is devoted to the dangers and hazards of volcanoes and how to deal with them. These chapters cover the history of the most famous eruptions, the destruction wreaked, and the more serious climatological changes, which I read with a sort of morbid fascination.<br /><br />In one of these chapters, on volcanoes and climate, the author discusses the theory that \\"super volcano\\" eruptions are thought to be responsible for major extinctions around the globe just as in the case of the Alvarez meteor extinction of the dinosaurs at the end of the Cretaceous. I was already familiar with some of these events from previous reading, such as Krakatoa, Pompeii and Herculaneum, but more is known now, but  eruptions such as Toba and Tambora were were much larger even than these. The Tambora eruption of 1815 spewed 50 cubic kilometers of ash into the air and killed 60,000 people on Indonesia, even more than were killed 60 years later by the the tsunami in 1883 from Krakatoa. That year came to be known as the \\"year without a summer\\" and caused a very cold winter that year and crop failures around the world which killed tens of thousands of more people.<br /><br />The dangers of pyroclastic flows and of lahars get special attention and are discussed in detail. \\"Lahar\\" is an Indonesion word for fast moving flows of ash mixed with water that act like concrete, trapping people and animals and burying towns. The author provides a table of the biggest eruptions showing info such as measured or estimated size (with the so-called \\"VEI number\\") and total loss of life.<br /><br />The third chapter discusses the destructive effects of volcanoes on climate which I mentioned earlier. One of these was especially noteworthy. About 70,000-80,000 years ago the Toba eruption occurred, the greatest one known since humans evolved. The author says 2000 million tons of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide were spewed into the atmosphere. The most conservative estimate of the dimming of sunlight caused by the volcanic aerosols of Toba may have been sufficient to dim sunlight to 1/10th of its normal value. This would have been enough to arrest or kill much of the trees and vegetation over much of the earth's surface. You may be familiar with the \\"Eve hypothesis\\" in human evolution, which is the idea that all modern humans can trace their ancestry back to a single individual as a result of mitochondrial DNA analysis. It's now thought that the Toba eruption could have been the cause of that, when most of the world's population was wiped out by the Toba eruption and only a few survived, one of which was Eve.<br /><br />These sorts of eruptions have been termed \\"super volcanoes,\\" and there are dozens of these enormous calderas around the world that are big enough to create them, including three in the U.S. For example, the 60 km caldera which created a VEI 8 eruption 640,000 years ago in Yellowstone may be approaching such an eruption again. Seismic studies show that the there is an active magma chamber below the middle of the caldera that is 20 km wide and 10 km deep. It seems magma is continuing to be injected into this chamber, because the center of the caldera has domed upwards by 1 meter in the last 50 years. The other calderas are the Long Valley caldera near Mammoth mountain in California and the Valles caldera in New Mexico.<br /><br />Another unusual hazard of volcanoes is known by the Icelandic word Jokuhlaups (with an umlaut over the first u), or \\"glacier burst.\\" These occur when melting glaciers cause floods from the runoff. On Mt. Rainier, which I visited once, I learned that these have occurred in an odd way occasionally. They have even issued forth from ice caves on the mountain, knocking down hikers and a couple of outhouses. :-)<br /><br />Another hazard of volcanoes that includes mass extinctions are those from continental flood basalts, which can cover millions of square miles of the earth's surface. One of these occurred on the Columbia River Plateau in the Pacific Northwest 16 million years ago. Another occurred in Siberia 248 million years ago and covered 2 million square miles. The Alvarez meteor strike is mentioned as possibly setting off another flood basalt, the Deccan Traps event in India at the end of the Cretaceous 63 million years ago. The author mentions the explosions of Krakatoa in 1883, which pulverized 4.3 cubic miles of rock from the crater and caused a tsunami that killed 36,000 people on sumatra, and was the size of 10,000 Hiroshima type bombs, and the one that created Crater Lake in Oregon about 7000 years ago, which was even bigger, blowing 7.1 cubic miles of rock from the crater. It's now thought that a large meteor strike in southwestern Idaho could have caused these flood basalts over eastern Washington and Oregon by puncturing the crust all the way through to the mantle, allowing magma to reach the surface.<br /><br />The last chapters in the book are devoted to Monitoring Volcanoes, Visiting Volcanoes, and Extraterestrial Volcanoes. There are also discussions of how to survive a hot blast from a volcano by wrapping yourself or at least any exposed skin in a wet protective covering, holding your breath as long as you can or until the heat from the blast has passed.<br /><br />Finally, there are two appendices, one on volcanic rock types, and another on minerals in ignoeous rocks and their chemical composition, and a glossary of volcanic terms. Overall, a very interesting and fascinating book on geology and vulcanology., which I visited once, I learned that these have occurred in an odd way occasionally. They have even issued forth from ice caves on the mountain, knocking down hikers and a couple of outhouses. :-)     Another hazard of volcanoes that includes mass extinctions are those from continental flood basalts, which can cover millions of square miles of the earth's surface. One of these occurred on the Columbia River Plateau in the Pacific Northwest 16 million years ago. Another occurred in Siberia 248 million years ago and covered 2 million square miles. The Alvarez meteor strike is mentioned as possibly setting off another flood basalt, the Deccan Traps event in India at the end of the Cretaceous 63 million years ago. The author mentions the explosions of Krakatoa in 1883, which pulverized 4.3 cubic miles of rock from the crater and caused a tsunami that killed 36,000 people on sumatra, and was the size of 10,000 Hiroshima type bombs, and the one that created Crater Lake in Oregon about 7000 years ago, which was even bigger, blowing 7.1 cubic miles of rock from the crater. It's now thought that a large meteor strike in southwestern Idaho could have caused these flood basalts over eastern Washington and Oregon by puncturing the crust all the way through to the mantle, allowing magma to reach the surface.    The last chapters in the book are devoted to Monitoring Volcanoes, Visiting Volcanoes, and Extraterestrial Volcanoes. There are also discussions of how to survive a hot blast from a volcano by wrapping yourself or at least any exposed skin in a wet protective covering, holding your breath as long as you can or until the heat from the blast has passed.     Finally, there are two appendices, one on volcanic rock types, and another on minerals in ignoeous rocks and their chemical composition, and a glossary of volcanic terms. Overall, a very interesting and fascinating book on geology and vulcanology.	2005-01-13
389659:US	45193257	R1Y4X5XU0YV8C3	1556434391	349319346	Pa-Kua: Chinese Boxing for Fitness & Self-Defense	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Reprint of the now classic book	This is a reprint of the now over 30 year old classic that was the first book written by a westerner on this still obscure art. Pa Kua, or the \\"art of overkill,\\" as it's sometimes called, is still much less known than its sister arts tai chi and hsing i.<br /><br />After a brief into, some taoist philosophy (such as a brief explanation of the I Ching, and how it relates to pa kua), Smith gives a brief account of the history of the art before getting into the actual techniques. The introduction also includes some delightful stories about the adventures and exploits of some of the most famous masters.<br /><br />There are two main basic technique sections, one presenting 18 basic movements, and a Forms and Functions chapter of 20 techniques shown with a partner that demostrate the applications. These include hand and foot strikes, traps, takedowns, and throws.<br /><br />Smith then provides an excellent commentary on how to practice and some do's and don'ts. They're detailed, and at a high level of sophistication in terms of the theory, including much practical advice such as how to relax, how to breathe, how to prepare your mind, and so on. Another important point is that the pa kua techniques are not so much techniques in the traditional sense so much as concepts that manifest change according to the principles of the I Ching. If you understand these and internalize them then your progress will be great. The comments in this section are worth the price of the book by themselves.<br /><br />Finally, the unique classical circling exercise is presented with a couple of variations thrown in the good measure. These are shown by Paul Kuo, one of Smith's teachers in Taiwan and a famous pa kua master who I had heard of for some years before I saw him demonstrating the form in this book.<br /><br />I had just one or two final comments about this unique art. The evasive and circling skills of a true pa kua master are formidable and I once had the opportunity to spar with one and see them for myself. I being an advanced karate practitioner, and very big, strong, and fast at the time and the pa kua master being 20 years older and much smaller, I felt he was no match for me in terms of strength and that I had the advantage as far as \\"duking it out\\" and trading punches and kicks went.<br /><br />However, I never got the chance to do that. The master would quickly disappear behind me as soon as I moved toward him. His evasive skills were truly a delight to see and I came away with a new respect and appreciation for this unusual art which is still rarely seen even in China.anced karate practitioner, and very big, strong, and fast at the time and the pa kua master being 20 years older and much smaller, I felt he was no match for me in terms of strength and that I had the advantage as far as \\"duking it out\\" and trading punches and kicks went.     However, I never got the chance to do that. The master would quickly disappear behind me as soon as I moved toward him. His evasive skills were truly a delight to see and I came away with a new respect and appreciation for this unusual art which is still rarely seen even in China.	2005-01-13
398590:US	45193257	R1D6RA1VJ2ZEAF	0897501128	191447707	Chinese Gung Fu: The Philosophical Art of Self-Defense Revised and Updated	Books	3	26	28	N	N	A few comments	Compared to the books out now on kung fu this book probably wouldn't rate much of a mention if it weren't for the fact that it's Lee's first published work, at least in the west. It gives a basic overview of kung fu, including some philosophy, exercises, basic style info, and a number of techniques. As far as technical knowledge goes, probably the most interesting thing there is the photo sequences showing Lee defending against multiple assailants, which are good.<br /><br />But at just under 100 pages, it's small although the overall quality for the time was probably pretty decent considering this was probably one of the few books in English on kung fu at the time. But by current standards it's more than a bit on the light side. Even so no doubt Bruce Lee fans will want to acquire the book to have a complete collection of his works, since he only wrote six or seven books.<br /><br />Probably the most interesting thing about it is Lee says the material and techniques in the book derive from the period before he started studying Wing Chun. In that sense the book is more important for its historical value in showing an earlier phase of Lee's kung fu development. Danny Inosanto also said Lee had studied northern long fist and learned all the empty-handed forms there (of which there are about a dozen), so this material could have been drawn from that.<br /><br />Many of the photos are a little dark and lacking in contrast but they're still viewable and not bad. You can still see what's going on. But they're not up to the quality of more recent books.<br /><br />One thing Lee says that still resonates today is his statement that a good martial artist will take all the knowledge that he's acquired and simplify it to get the true, distilled essence of the art. At the most advanced levels, the principles and techniques then become \\"simple\\" after being \\"complicated.\\" Of course, it takes a very advanced and knowledgeable martial artist to be able to see and accomplish that, and perhaps most of us will never get to that point, but Bruce Lee did, which is why he was and still is one of the greats.<br /><br />By the way, many people aren't aware that Lee combined both karate and kung fu techniques (not to mention Indonesian Pentjak Silat, which most people in this country have still never heard of, although there are at least 300 different styles), so his style is truly synthetic and eclectic. However, because of that many traditional and classical kung fu masters don't consider Lee a true kung fu practitioner. Whether that is true or not I leave up to the reader to decide, although Lee himself once stated that, \\"There is nothing traditional in my kung fu.\\"<br /><br />So overall, not a bad book for its time although at this point it looks sort of old-fashioned and dated and will probably be mostly of interest to amateur martial arts historians like myself or serious Bruce Lee fans.get to that point, but Bruce Lee did, which is why he was and still is one of the greats.    By the way, many people aren't aware that Lee combined both karate and kung fu techniques (not to mention Indonesian Pentjak Silat, which most people in this country have still never heard of, although there are at least 300 different styles), so his style is truly synthetic and eclectic. However, because of that many traditional and classical kung fu masters don't consider Lee a true kung fu practitioner. Whether that is true or not I leave up to the reader to decide, although Lee himself once stated that, \\"There is nothing traditional in my kung fu.\\"    So overall, not a bad book for its time although at this point it looks sort of old-fashioned and dated and will probably be mostly of interest to amateur martial arts historians like myself or serious Bruce Lee fans.	2005-01-06
400529:US	45193257	R2BIAZH9VYCWN9	0804834393	609355870	The Art of Shaolin Kung Fu: The Secrets of Kung Fu for Self-Defense, Health, and Enlightenment (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent intro to kung fu	This is probably the best introduction to kung fu I've seen. Most of the books out there are usually devoted to a particular style, presenting their techniques and maybe a form or two, but this is a more educational and scholarly book intended to give you a better overall understanding of the art. The author discusses the history, concepts, styles, training methods, different styles (both internal and external) and philosophies of many of the different kung fu styles, both well known and not so well known (such as the fairly secretive and obscure southern praying mantis, which is much less known that it's northern counterpart. In addition to the well written text, there are illustration sequences showing a Shaolin hand set and a 5 animals form.<br /><br />The author is assiduous in using the full terminology, so you get exposed to all the Chinese names for the different techniques, in both English and Chinese (which was useful to me, because I still haven't memorized all the name yet). In fact, many of the names are slightly longer or more description than the previous ones I knew, so I suspect the other kung fu books I've read often use more convenient, shorter terminology.<br /><br />I was especially interested in the history of the some of the more famous styles, such as Lohan (five ancestor), praying mantis, northern long fist, choy li fut, and the Wudang or internal styles such as ba gua and tai chi. The histories seemed very thorough and I learned a lot, especially considering I already knew the history of some of the styles already to some extent. There are actually three history related chapters, one discussing the earliest history, going back perhaps 2000 years, the period from early Shaolin to the development of tai chi, and later developments.<br /><br />One caution, you might have to get used to the author using slightly different names for the styles. I study hung gar, for example, and in the book it's refered to as hongjiaquan, which just means hong or hung style fist. I'm used to the main five southern family styles being refered to as hung, choy, liu, mok, and fu, follow by the word \\"gar,\\" but since he says he's discussing the southern family styles you can figure that out on your own.<br /><br />There's also a brief but nice discussion of the internal arts and their concepts. Their history is discussed in one of their history sections. I've studied yang and wu style tai chi but didn't know the history of each style as well as I should (although I do know my own lineage pretty well, of course), and this book was helpful there too.<br /><br />The author discusses beginning and advanced training techniques, the development of sparring skills, how to deal with less skilled vs. more skilled opponents, the difference between superior skill and superior power and energy, skill vs. true mastery in the development of technique (the highest level being in a sense \\"no technique.\\"<br /><br />In addition, the author also has many pieces of advice on how to train and the sequence of training, the difference between power and speed and how best to develop them, how to practice the individual techniques and forms, and many other useful tidbits of information about kung fu.<br /><br />Another final thing I liked about the history is the stories about some of the most famous historical figures, such as General Yue Fei (who is credited with inventing both hsing i and eagle claw), Sun Lu Tang (an important figure in all three of the internal arts), and Wong Fe Hong, a famous hero of the Chinese people and a great practitoner of hung gar.<br /><br />Whether you're a relative beginner or even more advanced practitioner of kung fu, you'll probably find this book useful for learning more about the subject.ed to the main five southern family styles being refered to as hung, choy, liu, mok, and fu, follow by the word \\"gar,\\" but since he says he's discussing the southern family styles you can figure that out on your own.    There's also a brief but nice discussion of the internal arts and their concepts. Their history is discussed in one of their history sections. I've studied yang and wu style tai chi but didn't know the history of each style as well as I should (although I do know my own lineage pretty well, of course), and this book was helpful there too.    The author discusses beginning and advanced training techniques, the development of sparring skills, how to deal with less skilled vs. more skilled opponents, the difference between superior skill and superior power and energy, skill vs. true mastery in the development of technique (the highest level being in a sense \\"no technique.\\"    In addition, the author also has many pieces of advice on how to train and the sequence of training, the difference between power and speed and how best to develop them, how to practice the individual techniques and forms, and many other useful tidbits of information about kung fu.     Another final thing I liked about the history is the stories about some of the most famous historical figures, such as General Yue Fei (who is credited with inventing both hsing i and eagle claw), Sun Lu Tang (an important figure in all three of the internal arts), and Wong Fe Hong, a famous hero of the Chinese people and a great practitoner of hung gar.    Whether you're a relative beginner or even more advanced practitioner of kung fu, you'll probably find this book useful for learning more about the subject.	2005-01-05
402758:US	45193257	R2CGUVDDQ21RD5	002907052X	255389394	A Dictionary of Angels: Including the Fallen Angels	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Excellent dictionary on unusual subject	I don't read very many religious books, but this one caught my eye because of its unusual subject, so I spent a while reading it in a Border's bookstore looking up names I remembered from long ago, and it was interesting to see what the book said about them. Although I didn't know much about the subject, I did remember there were seraphim, arch angels, lesser angels, fallen angels, dark angels, black angels, angels of the winds, angels of the hours, and so on, and this book had every one I looked up. Basically every major, minor, fallen angel, demon, or whatever that you can think of seems to be included, from both eastern and western religions.<br /><br />After a few minutes of that it was obvious to me this was a very well researched, scholarly tome intended for serious students of religion who are looking for something much more technical and thorough than usual.<br /><br />I noticed many of the angels discussed aren't actually in the Bible but come from \\"non-canonical\\" works, as they say. It turns out there are a large number of these, not just the ones I knew of from sources such as the Cabala. Also, there are often conflicting descriptions about a particular angel. For example, certain angels, such as Metatron, Michael, Raphael and Uriel have had the same action or qualities attributed to them at one time or another. But at least the entries appear thorough since the author cites these different sources even when they appear conflicting and contradictory.<br /><br />Some of the information is pretty amazing by itself. For example, in the cases of the fallen angels, it's said how many infernal legions they have underneath them in Hell to command. I don't recall their names, since they weren't familiar to me before, but one that I saw had 29 legions, and another had 30. I'd be curious to find out where those facts came from.<br /><br />So as I said, although I'm no expert on the theology or natural theology of angels, this is a very thorough, well-researched, and exactingly detailed job on a specialized subject that will probably be of more interest to the serious amateur or professional student of religion.pecialized subject that will probably be of more interest to the serious amateur or professional student of religion.	2005-01-03
403719:US	45193257	R2ZDQZ3FJ831AZ	0312305419	791065666	Sahara	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A few comments	I just had a few miscelleneous comments on this book.<br /><br />Not being familiar with Palin's previous travel adventures I had no expectations about this book, but I was pleasantly surprised. If it's possible to write a witty, funny, and entertaining travelogue about perhaps the most forbidding and unforgiving place on the planet, Palin does it here in this very well done book. Palin's descriptions of the Sahara are interesting, informative, and sometimes funny as well. The photos are superb and really complement the text. Being a biologist by education, I knew that the Sahara wasn't a single unremitting expanse of sand waiting to trap hapless travellers or anyone foolish enough to try to cross it unaided, but I was surprised at the diversity of habitats, plants, and animals that can be be found there, not to mention the many tribes and cultures who live in and around the Sahara itself. Palin also gives you a feel for some of these cultures and their history and I enjoyed that too. Also I enjoy architecture and the photos of the mosque at Djenna are really stunning, truly an architectural flower of the desert if there ever was one. Overall, a fine book on this vast but still misunderstood area of the world.	2005-01-03
405849:US	45193257	RZTQ5CUC0G0A9	0870114751	209057853	Stick Fighting: Techniques of  Self-Defense (Bushido--The Way of the Warrior)	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Great little classic	When I was a young martial artist 40 years ago, I always looked forward to any new books by Draeger or Chambers. You could always count on them for books on rare or interesting topics that weren't being covered by anyone else. For example, their two books on Indonesion Silat are classics and were the first published in the English speaking world on this fascinating art.<br /><br />This book by Chambers and Hatsumi is another example of that, and it's a testament to it that it's still around after 34 years. Back then I remember looking at the locking technqiues with the stick and deciding they were too hard to learn from a book. Then many years later I took up kali and escrima, which has many of the same techniques, and recently when I picked up a copy of this book and look at the chapter on those techniques, I found they weren't so difficult to understand anymore, so I guess I've learned something after all. :-)<br /><br />Actually, this isn't such a little book, because it contains 58 techniques, divided into about half a dozen different categories. These are techniques against fist attacks, foot attacks, wrist holds, sleeve and lapel graps, seizure from behind, stick holding, and immobilizations. Each category has at least 6 or 7 techniques, although some have more, so there's a good selection of techniques of each type. One nice feature is a section devoted to jutte techniques, a rarely seen art that I know very little about. The section on basic techniques includes footwork diagrams, something often lacking and neglected in many books on martial arts.<br /><br />After a brief intoduction and description of the stick arts in the Japan and a short discussion of the basic concepts, the authors devote most of the book to the vaious techniques. Despite the plates probably being pretty old at this point, the photos are still pretty clear and although slightly lacking in contast. However, if I remember right, this was the case with the first edition 30 years ago. At the end there's a brief glossary of Japanese terms.<br /><br />With over 300 photos, easy to follow text and photos, and almost 60 techniques, this is an excelent introduction to the Kukishin-ryu art of stick fighting.At the end there's a brief glossary of Japanese terms. <br /> <br />With over 300 photos, easy to follow text and photos, and almost 60 techniques, this is an excelent introduction to the Kukishin-ryu art of stick fighting.	2005-01-01
409439:US	45193257	R21MMO5DGE74X1	0897501411	838337358	An American's Journey to the Shaolin Temple	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Moving and inspiring book from master DeMasco	I am mainly a karate, kali/escrima, and chin na (which is also part of kung fu, especially styles like eagle claw, tiger claw, and praying mantis styles) student and teacher, but I really enjoyed this book, as I also study Hung Gar kung fu and tai chi and have been exposed to several other styles of kung fu in the past, such as 7-star praying mantis, wing chun, white crane, northern ching kung, and southern black tiger.<br /><br />I'm no master of kung fu, just an enthusiastic and interested student who appreciates the historical as well as martial and technical importance of the Chinese arts and whose karate reflects their influence, as my karate is quite a bit more fluid and flowing than your typical karateist (although without sacrificing speed and power and focus, which is what I specialize in training advanced students and black belts on). Although I claim no great skill at kung fu, my kung fu teachers have said the way I'm applying the principles to my karate is very valid and the modifications I've made have their full approval and blessing (and, before anyone says anything, my fellow karate teachers usually like my karate too, and some of them are my students).<br /><br />Before getting into my own comments about the book, I noted the previous very negative review, saying DeMasco doesn't do the stances properly and uses the wrong names, but I was already aware of most of those points, but the reviewer is technically correct although I must point out that since DeMasco is a direct student of Tak Wah Eng, who certainly knows what he's doing, I'm inclined to give DeMasco the benefit of the doubt in regard to his overall level of knowledge and skill. For example, when he was training at the school and the students were asked anyone knew and could demonstrate the iron wire form, only DeMasco stepped forward and was able to perform it.<br /><br />My only concern is whether the monks are practicing real kung fu these days or wu su. Although wu su has become the national sport of China, it's not the same as kung fu. I understand that some styles, such as eagle claw, have basically died out on the mainland, and that the only instructors are either in Taiwan, or in the U.S., such as Lily Lau or Dr. Yang Jwing Ming. I have three video tapes of monks at the southern Songshan Shaolin monastery doing their forms, which confirmed this suspicion, as they are wu su, not kung fu. I don't recall which monastery DeMasco visited on his trip to China, perhaps it was the northern monastery, and things are better there.<br /><br />But getting back to the book, part travelogue, part autobiography, and part martial arts manual, in this book master Stephen DeMasco gives the student some of the essence of his 30 years of experience and training in the martial arts and kung fu. DeMasco first regales the reader with stories of how he first became involved with kung fu (he was turned away at the door of the studio or kwoon for 5 years, but persisted and was finally allowed to train). The story of how he came to be invited to the shaolin temple to perform for the abbot is truly inspiring and a great tribute to the author. As a result, he is the only westerner ever to be fully certified as a master by the Shaolin temple.<br /><br />Most the book is devoted to photos presenting the exercises, techniques, and forms from several kung fu styles, including some weapons work. These include praying mantis, black tiger, five animals, and Hung Gar. In addition there is a presentation of a single saber, double saber, and staff techniques, although the text doesn't say what style they're from.<br /><br />Finally, DeMasco shows the very rare Hung Gar iron wire or iron thread form, which is hardly ever seen, and which represents the highest level of the internal training of the style, and is still not widely traught or known. Overall, an enjoyable book covering Demasco's distinguished and inspiring career along with a very nice presentatin of many techniques drawnfrom the favorite styles of master DeMasco.	2004-12-29
413000:US	45193257	R3S1CDHZC83Z3T	1886969337	836642670	Tai Chi Chuan: 24 & 48 Postures with Martial Applications	Books	5	28	29	N	N	One of the best books on tai chi	This book presents the 24 and 48 posture tai chi form. The 24 move form is good for busy people, but the 48 move form is even better because it combines movements from the 3 most popular styles of tai chi, Yang,  Wu, and Chen, so the student gets some background in each. At 150 pages long in large paperback format, this book packs a lot of info between the covers. For example, I learned that in addition to the Wu style, there is also a W'u style, which I didn't know, although I've studied both Yang and Wu style tai chi.<br /><br />The author gives a brief introduction to tai chi in the first chapter, discussing basic concepts and information, then proceeds to some classical Taoist philosophy. He also tells some interesting stories about the founder and his sons, who had many adventures and exploits, and various stories and legends have grown up around them.<br /><br />Next there is a separate chapter on chi gung, a subject that has become almost a requirement for a tai chi book, I notice. However, most of the book is taken up by athe chapter showing the martial applications and the 48 move form. Dozens of applications are shown, and the photos are clear and easy to understand. I found this the most enjoyable part of the book, as there are still postures I don't know all applications for, such as snake creeps down, and the author presented one on that.<br /><br />There is a chapter on guidelines for tai chi practice that gives detailed instructions for how to use the different parts of the body, from the eyes to the feet in performing the form. I found this useful because sometimes I still forget some of the fine details of how to hold the body when I do the form.<br /><br />Finally, there are several appendices which provide a list of the 24 and 48 postures and their translations, a glossary on Chinese terms that is more complete than most, and a brief bibliography for further reading. The book is well written and easy to understand even when discussing some of the more abstract and esoteric principles. There are two mini-biographies of each other, two prefaces by two different masters, and a preface by the notable Dr. Yang Jwing Ming.rinciples. There are two mini-biographies of each other, two prefaces by two different masters, and a preface by the notable Dr. Yang Jwing Ming.	2004-12-25
418845:US	45193257	RTX1XV86AYJ7F	0865682070	539451394	The Naked Edge: The Complete Guide to Edged Weapons Defense (Elite Professional Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent intro and beginner's book	First, I need to address the previous very negative review, which said that most of the techniques in the book aren't very realistic, and won't work against an opponent who is very skilled and \\"pumping stabs\\" in and out at you. While there is a lot of truth to this, in the sense that defending unarmed against a skilled knife wielder isn't realistic to begin with if you're unskilled; however, one needs to distinguish between the unskilled to somewhat skilled knife fighter and the expert. If one simply decides that such defense is hopeless from the very start then that dooms you to passive acceptance of death or serious injury in even a basic encounter with a blade. (And there is no disgrace in going down fighting whether one is skilled in knife-defense tactics or not).<br /><br />However, realistically, that's not usually the case. Most knife wielders (at least in the U.S.) aren't going to be experts or gurus in some Pacific Rim art, and simply aren't going to be in that class. In that case, you have a chance of surviving such an enounter if you develop some basic skills and basic knife awareness. This is the purpose of this book and in that regard it serves very well. Of course, if you have the opportunity to study directly under a skilled teacher of these arts, that would be even better, and give you further skills and abilities that will enhance your chances. When it comes to serious knife encounters, it's all about increasing your options and chances of survival, and there's no doubt that increasing one's knowledge and developing basic knife skills will do that. In other words, at least you will have a fighting chance.<br /><br />And if you advance to the intermediate to advanced level, your chances increase even more, although against a skilled knife wielder you will no doubt still be at a disadvantage empty-handed, but if you're skilled you may, as I said, have a fighting chance. And against a less skilled knife wielder you should have more than a fighting chance.<br /><br />Another thing to remember in such an situation (and that I explain to my own students), is that in a deadly or weapons based encounter, your goal is not really to win, but not to lose and to escape with your life, because winning might require using more risky techniques and thereby expose yourself to a deadly counter. Your goal is simply to survive the first few seconds and then disengage and run if at all possible.<br /><br />If you don't have a local instructor in one of these arts, the next best thing would be to get some of the excellent videos available on knife fighting and bladed arts, such as the very fine series put out by Rey Galang and Christopher Ricketts on Kali Illustrisimo, the knife videos by Danny Inosanto, James Keating, Kelly Worden, W. \\"Hock\\" Hockheim, Jim Mahan, Edgar Sulite, Ted LucayLucay, and Frank Cucci, to list some of my favorites, which are well worth getting and viewing. It will require investing a little time and money (you can get them quite cheap used on e Bay, however, where they turn up with some regularity), but a dozen to two dozen well selected videos from these teachers will give you an excellent idea of beginning to advanced knife and knife defense techniques and in a diversity of arts and styles.<br /><br />But getting back to the present book, as I said, knowledge gives you options and enhances your chances, even in a bladed encounter, and this book serves very well there. This book cuts through the bewildering complexity and diversity of knife styles and arts to present the most important basic and core skills needed by every student of the blade.<br /><br />If you're an experienced or already skilled student of the knife, most of the book will probably be too basic for you, but if you're a beginner or novice this book is an excellent place to start learning, and it was no doubt intended to be used in that way. (I suspect much of the material follows the syllabus of the knife defense course Mr. Tarani has taught at Gunsight and other venues). It goes through all the needed basics, including stances, footwork, range and distance considerations, parries, blocks, and traps, grips, and even a little practical groundwork. The pros and cons of the different carry and retention methods are discussed as well as some consideration given to choosing a blade.<br /><br />One nice feature I appreciated was the introductory chapter on the history of the blade in combat and in duels in both European and Asian traditions from ancient times to the present. Tarani discusses its use in French main gauche, Spanish espada y daga, English sword and dagger, Scottish basket hilt and dirk, and so on. The illustrations from 1600s training manuals and manuscripts and some ancient sources are a nice touch, and helps to place the blade in its historical context. As Mr. Tarani points out, since the advent of firearms, the knowledge and teaching of the bladed arts have declined in the west, but have been preserved in the east and the Pacific Rim and have come down to us in more or less intact form.<br /><br />Mr. Tarani provides many useful and practical drills to enhance your footwork and mobility, knife handling skills, knife control abilities, and so on. Special attention is given to middle and close distance, which he refers to respectively as contact range and ECQ or extreme close quarters, since these are the most difficult areas to deal with.<br /><br />Tarani also has an extensive discussion of metal, aluminum, wood, plastic, and rubber training blades for adding realism to your training. My only fault with the book is there is no discussion of the concept of \\"defanging the snake,\\" which is the best strategy in a bladed enounter, but that assumes you have a knife yourself. Since this is basically a book on unaided and unarmed defense against the knife, that omission is probably deliberate, but those of you who have studied the Filipino and Indonesian knife arts know what I mean by it. Most untrained people who pick up a knife to attack you are not going to understand that principle, and if you do, then you have the advantage.ough all the needed basics, including stances, footwork, range and distance considerations, parries, blocks, and traps, grips, and even a little practical groundwork. The pros and cons of the different carry and retention methods are discussed as well as some consideration given to choosing a blade.    One nice feature I appreciated was the introductory chapter on the history of the blade in combat and in duels in both European and Asian traditions from ancient times to the present. Tarani discusses its use in French main gauche, Spanish espada y daga, English sword and dagger, Scottish basket hilt and dirk, and so on. The illustrations from 1600s training manuals and manuscripts and some ancient sources are a nice touch, and helps to place the blade in its historical context. As Mr. Tarani points out, since the advent of firearms, the knowledge and teaching of the bladed arts have declined in the west, but have been preserved in the east and the Pacific Rim and have come down to us in more or less intact form.    Mr. Tarani provides many useful and practical drills to enhance your footwork and mobility, knife handling skills, knife control abilities, and so on. Special attention is given to middle and close distance, which he refers to respectively as contact range and ECQ or extreme close quarters, since these are the most difficult areas to deal with.    Tarani also has an extensive discussion of metal, aluminum, wood, plastic, and rubber training blades for adding realism to your training. My only fault with the book is there is no discussion of the concept of \\"defanging the snake,\\" which is the best strategy in a bladed enounter, but that assumes you have a knife yourself. Since this is basically a book on unaided and unarmed defense against the knife, that omission is probably deliberate, but those of you who have studied the Filipino and Indonesian knife arts know what I mean by it. Most untrained people who pick up a knife to attack you are not going to understand that principle, and if you do, then you have the advantage.	2004-12-19
422003:US	45193257	R164I45JWMFGU8	0834804123	202553319	The Art of Chinese Swordsmanship: A Manual of Taiji Jian	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Excellent book on little seen art	There aren't many books available on the tai chi sword, and most are on the more popular Yang style. This book is on the less well known Wu style, a later development from the Yang style. In the empty-handed version of the art, the Wu style typically uses a somewhat more forward leaning posture, but that doesn't appear to be the case in the sword form. Also (at least from the master I studied with for several years), there is a lot of chin na, similar to the Chen style, but regardless of what style you study, you'll find this a worthwhile book.<br /><br />The author explains clearly and concisely many basic and advanced principles relating to training, practical applications, and theory, emphasizing the differences and similarities between empty-handed tai practice and weapons practice. The more advanced principles are discussed and are presented in a way that is more easily understood than in many tai chi books. The photo section showing the postures and positions and describing the martial application of each is worth the price of the book by itself.<br /><br />This is probably the best book on the tai chi sword that I've seen. It's well written and easy to understand even when the author gets into discussing the more abstract principles of chi and of tai chi practice. The author's comments on the practice of the sword apply equally well to empty handed practice, as I said.<br /><br />The sword is the most widespread Chinese weapon, and the tai chi sword form is a very special example of its use. It there's one weapon that a 70, 80, or 90-year old Chinese will still be able to wield with skill, it's the sword. Interestingly, the tai chi form is only about 150 years old, which I hadn't realized until reading the author's introduction where he discusses some of the history.<br /><br />This book covers the shorter 32-position Wu style form. Although shorter than the long form and the most difficult positions have been removed, it will still be useful for those interested in the tai chi sword but whose time is limited. Some masters are critical of the short forms since they believe they have limited usefulness for truly cultivating chi and for self-healing purposes. These considerations aside, this is still a very detailed and well done discussion of the principles, theory, practice, and martial applications of the tai chi sword. The serious student, however, will no doubt prefer to learn the long version of the sword.<br /><br />The author discusses the basics of the sword, including construction, different parts of the sword, length, weight, and balance, grips and how to hold the sword, finger sword or sword helper, jian flowers and jian circles. The applications show the use of the straight sword against another straight sword, the spear, and the curved broadsword. Footwork, stances, movement, and how to hold the body are discussed before getting into the details of the form.<br /><br />The 13 basic techniques are discussed and illustrated, which are the cut, thrust, block, wash, draw, take back, raise, explode, chop, point, stir, press, intercept with the edge, and block with the ridge. A discussion of combination techniques follows before the author gets into presenting the actual form.<br /><br />Most of the text, however, is devoted to the presentation of the form, including illustrations of the basic and advanced postures, and practical applications. There are 32 of these and all are shown in photos and described more fully in the test. A nice touch is the author's discussing not only the details of the body position and martial application, but additional key points and internal considerations for each posture and how the chi should feel in performing the move. The photos of the positions are very clear and easy to interpret.<br /><br />The book concludes with two chapters on how to prctice and fighting applications. There are two appendices which present a lineage of the tai chi sword form and the accupressure points of the human body.<br /><br />Many people aren't aware that tai chi also has a broadsword form, a spear form, and a staff form, in addition to the straight sword. It is my hope that some day another master will also write a book as good as this one is on those aspects of tai chi. In the meantime, this is an excellent book on the straight sword that will be of interest mostly to the serious and advanced student of tai chi.<br /><br />I only have one complaint about the book, which is that in some of the photos in which the sword is held edge-on to the camera, the blade is practically invisible, making it difficult to see what's going on. But overall, this is a fine book on the tai chi sword and probably the best one I've seen so far on the subject.has a broadsword form, a spear form, and a staff form, in addition to the straight sword. It is my hope that some day another master will also write a book as good as this one is on those aspects of tai chi. In the meantime, this is an excellent book on the straight sword that will be of interest mostly to the serious and advanced student of tai chi.    I only have one complaint about the book, which is that in some of the photos in which the sword is held edge-on to the camera, the blade is practically invisible, making it difficult to see what's going on. But overall, this is a fine book on the tai chi sword and probably the best one I've seen so far on the subject.	2004-12-16
422553:US	45193257	RHJGJ4JDEYSTJ	0938190458	377292769	Cheng Tzu's Thirteen Treatises on T'ai Chi Ch'uan	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Great classic by great master	If you're a serious tai chi practitioner this book should be in your library. Besides the invaluable knowledge it contains, this is just a very nice edition of the work. It's the only edition authorized by the professor's estate, and contains an introduction written by his wife, in addition to the translation by master Ben Lo. The cover painting of a white lotus and samples of calligraphy by Prof. Chen are nice touches, and the book is hardback and printed on higher quality you would get in a paperback edition. And the price is reasonable given the features and overall quality of the edition.<br /><br />But of course the most important aspect of the book is that it's one of the most detailed books on the practice and theory of tai chi ever written. Tai chi is composed of three main parts: the self-healing, martial, and medical (or the ability to heal others), aspects, and prof. Chen discusses all of these at length. For example, he discusses the physiology of tai chi, and how chi is transformed in the body to strengthen the muscles, connective tissue, and even bones, in greater detail than I had seen before in any other book. Numerous tai chi principles and practical points are also discussed and illuminated. There is enough material and food for thought here to reflect on for a long time, and I found I spent much time just trying to absorb the basic points, let alone the more advanced principles.<br /><br />The photos of master Chen performing many of the postures and techniques and their analyses and descriptions are also very helpful. There are 37 different postures in the long form, and each one is illustrated, and the external body mechanics, internal chi process, and martial application discussed and described. It's difficult to get all of that from a single static photo, which is why I say this book is really only for the intermediate or advanced student. (I note that the although some of the reviews here have been posted for more than five years, they only have a few votes, which leads me to believe that only the most serious students obtain and read this book, and look up reviews for it on Amazon).<br /><br />All is all, a true classic of the martial arts by a great master that should be read and studied by every serious student of tai chi., which leads me to believe that only the most serious students obtain and read this book, and look up reviews for it on Amazon).    All is all, a true classic of the martial arts by a great master that should be read and studied by every serious student of tai chi.	2004-12-15
428233:US	45193257	RFE63SZE81EQF	0865682119	998567432	Kung Fu Masters	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another fine book from Fraguas	I enjoyed the author's previous book of interviews on karate masters, so I thought I'd try this one too. It's excellent also and covers many of the famous kung-fu and tai chi masters. There are 21 interviews in all, and no doubt you'll find some of your favorite masters and personalities here. My favorites included people like the inimitable Jackie Chan, Eric Lee (famous for his Chinese weapons, and who knows 34 different types), Doc Fai Wong (of Choy Li Fut), Bucksam Kong (of Hung Gar), Yang Jwing Ming (Eagle Claw and Chin Na), and others. Many of these masters were in their 50s, 60s, or 70s when interviewed, and it was interesting to hear their views on the evolution of their arts during their lifetime and how their understanding of their arts had changed or deepened with age. Tai Chi is well represented along with the kung fu, and even some Ba Gua and Hsing I gets discussed too, which are much rarer, both here and in China. There are a few I would have liked to see that were absent, such as Tak Wah Eng (from Tiger Claw), Kwong Wing Lam (of Northern Long Fist and Hung Gar) and a couple of Americans like Robert W. Smith and Bruce Kumar Frantzis, but overall, this is a fine collection of interviews with many of the great Chinese martial arts masters of our time.	2004-12-10
440131:US	45193257	R2EXZ9AB44CAVX	1556432534	480102061	The Power of Internal Martial Arts: Combat Secrets of Ba Gua, Tai Chi, and Hsing-I	Books	5	62	65	N	N	Excellent book but not for the beginner	It's interesting to note all the negative reviews here of this book, most of them anonymous or by \\"A reader,\\" who probably wrote all of them since they all have the same style and tone. I also note that there's almost always someone from Taiwan or China or Japan who posts a negative review of any American martial arts book, I guess because they don't want to admit that there are good masters over here too who are perfectly qualified to write such a book.<br /><br />Mr. Frantzis is also fluent in both Japanese and Chinese, and that opened doors for him and allowed him to communicate with various masters who didn't speak English (as many of the older instructors didn't).<br /><br />If you're looking for specific techniques or applications, this book isn't for you, since the book isn't so much about specific combat techniques (despite the subtitle), as it is more of a high-level conceptual survey. If you're a knowledgeable martial artist with some previous background in the internal arts and/or kung fu and enjoy exploring the similarities and differences between the different internal styles and kung fu, and even the external styles, I think you'll enjoy this book. The descriptions of obscure arts such as the 8 Drunken Immortals was very interesting and reminded me of a similar drunken style that one of my kung fu teachers knew and that I studied briefly. But that's only one of a dozen or so different styles that Frantzis compares. The comparisons between the various internal and kung fu styles I found very accurate (based on my own 42 years of experience in various external and internal styles) and enjoyable to read.<br /><br />There is so much material and detail here that it's hard to summarize, but the following will give you a pretty good idea of the book's contents:<br /><br />1. Detailed descriptions of the three main internal boxing methods (Hsing I, Ba Gua, and Tai Chi), as well as many substyles.<br /><br />2. In-depth comparisons and analyses of the different arts in regard to their methods of movement, principles and philosophies, use of force and energy, body mechanics, and some practical applications.<br /><br />3. \\"Personal Odyssey\\" sections where Mr. Frantzis recounts many of his interesting encounters with famous martial arts masters. This feature recalls Robert W. Smith's Chinese Boxing: Masters and Methods, from a previous generation of martial arts books.<br /><br />4. Several sections or chapters discussing special topics such as the use of speed and power in the different arts.<br /><br />5. There are five appendices covering the different styles of tai chi (such as Yang, Chen, Wu, Tung, Hou, and Sun), a history of Ba Gua, energy anatomy of the human body, a summary of Mr. Frantzis's training and lineage, a chapter on Chinese terminology and transliteration, and an extensive glossary.<br /><br />I also appreciated Frantzis's honesty and frankness. He admits that although a Tai Chi technique like rollback will enable a smaller, weaker person to overcome a larger, stronger opponent, that simply studying Tai Chi does not guarantee that capability, and that if one does develop such abilities, it will probably take 10 or more years to do that since that requires considerable skill.<br /><br />Overall a very well written, enjoyable and detailed book analyzing and discussing the similarities and differences between dozens of internal and external arts.ement, principles and philosophies, use of force and energy, body mechanics, and some practical applications.    3. \\"Personal Odyssey\\" sections where Mr. Frantzis recounts many of his interesting encounters with famous martial arts masters. This feature recalls Robert W. Smith's Chinese Boxing: Masters and Methods, from a previous generation of martial arts books.    4. Several sections or chapters discussing special topics such as the use of speed and power in the different arts.    5. There are five appendices covering the different styles of tai chi (such as Yang, Chen, Wu, Tung, Hou, and Sun), a history of Ba Gua, energy anatomy of the human body, a summary of Mr. Frantzis's training and lineage, a chapter on Chinese terminology and transliteration, and an extensive glossary.    I also appreciated Frantzis's honesty and frankness. He admits that although a Tai Chi technique like rollback will enable a smaller, weaker person to overcome a larger, stronger opponent, that simply studying Tai Chi does not guarantee that capability, and that if one does develop such abilities, it will probably take 10 or more years to do that since that requires considerable skill.    Overall a very well written, enjoyable and detailed book analyzing and discussing the similarities and differences between dozens of internal and external arts.	2004-11-30
448594:US	45193257	R1C313P6AYOV6Q	0521559677	227682660	The Cambridge Encyclopedia of Language	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A brief comment	This book is a linguaphile and language lover's delight, to read or just to browse like a coffee table book. It covers just about every major topic in the study of language you can think of, from traditional classical and comparative philology and linguistics to modern developmental and neurological studies of language.<br /><br />The book is comprised of 11 major sections and 65 smaller sections, with 8 appendices devoted to various topics, and there is an extensive glossary of linguistic terms as well as a table giving essential information about almost 1000 of the world's languages. Although a scholarly book, it's well written and Crystal never gets overly pedantic or dry. This is no doubt one of the most comprehensive and detailed compendia of information for the general reader about the subject of language ever written.<br /><br />After reading this, you'll be more than ready to tackle a formal or more technical introductory text in linguistics, if you want to continue your studies. If you do, I highly recommend David Lyons's classic, Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics, now out of print but worth getting if you can find a used copy. If you can't find that there are several other recent texts that are quite good. But if you decide to stick with this book, you'll still have learned a lot. Whichever way you decide, good luck and happy reading.	2004-11-22
461046:US	45193257	R39LHG9GA7RAWJ	1593371020	825499298	100 Best Stocks (2005)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent book on the great companies	I read and liked Mr. Slatter's previous 2004 version of this book, so I picked up this one too. Each company is described in great detail, so you get a good idea of their business, the products they make or services they provide, how they operate, management's approach to business, and their record of past earnings and dividends. There are many familiar names here, such as Johnson and Johnson, Proctor and Gamble, Walmart, General Mills, Coca-Cola, Merck, IBM, Medtronic, but also many other companies that you may not have heard of that have been around for decades and have consistently been profitable or increased earnings or dividends over time, such as Illinois Tool Works, which has been around since 1912, has paid a dividend since the 1930s, and during the decade 1993 to 2003, earnings went from .92 to $3.37, a compound annual growth rate of 13.9 percent, and dividends went from .25 to .94, for a growth rate of 14.2 percent.<br /><br />Besides detailed profiles of all the companies, there are also sections on The Essentials of Successful Investing, Some Thoughts on Analyzing Stocks, How To Avoid Portfolio Blunders, 21 Ways to Reduce Investment Risk, What's Wrong with Buying Mutual Funds?, A Novel Approach to Asset Allocation, How to Get Started, The Pros and Cons of Dollar Cost Averaging, Basic Terminology, and How My 100 Stocks Were Selected.<br /><br />For example, Mr. Slatter points out the importance of diversification, picking stocks that have a history of a rising trend of earnings, that have a return on equity of 15 or better (an excellent way to immediately gauge the historical and overall performance of a stock), the use of dollar cost averaging, asset allocation, and many other useful topics.<br /><br />One thing that may surprise many readers is Mr. Slatter isn't a fan of mutual funds. Ninety percent of mutual funds underperform the market. This usually isn't because of poor stock picking by the management, but because of several other reasons: mutual fund fees and expenses can be as high as 3 percent, mutual fund expense ratios reached a high of 1.6 percent in 2002, and stock turnover costs are about 0.8 percent. These expenses are enough to cause most mutual funds to perform below the market.<br /><br />Futhermore, picking a mutual fund isn't that easy anymore. As of the late 90s, there were over 5000 mutual funds, more than there are stocks on the New York Stock exchange, all of which have various approaches and different levels of risks. For these reasons, Slatter isn't a big fan of mutual funds and instead favors putting together a portfolio of high quality stocks yourself. And by distributing them throughout all the different industries and sectors, from high tech to retail, you can achieve sufficient diversification without having to own a mutual fund.<br /><br />Interestingly, the economist who developed the modern theory of stock diversification (and who won the Nobel Prize in Economics for this contribution) showed that picking only one or two of the top companies from each sector was necessary in order to achieve sufficient diversification. Moreover, because most mutual fund companies own hundreds of stocks, they often run out of first-rate stocks and are forced to buy the second and third-tier stocks, thus diluting their performance. The small investor, however, has no such limitation, and can cherry-pick and put together a smaller portfolio of stocks that would make a typical mutual fund manager green with envy.<br /><br />Overall, a fine book on investing, and not the least of its virtues is that it's well written and fun to read.an be as high as 3 percent, mutual fund expense ratios reached a high of 1.6 percent in 2002, and stock turnover costs are about 0.8 percent. These expenses are enough to cause most mutual funds to perform below the market.    Futhermore, picking a mutual fund isn't that easy anymore. As of the late 90s, there were over 5000 mutual funds, more than there are stocks on the New York Stock exchange, all of which have various approaches and different levels of risks. For these reasons, Slatter isn't a big fan of mutual funds and instead favors putting together a portfolio of high quality stocks yourself. And by distributing them throughout all the different industries and sectors, from high tech to retail, you can achieve sufficient diversification without having to own a mutual fund.     Interestingly, the economist who developed the modern theory of stock diversification (and who won the Nobel Prize in Economics for this contribution) showed that picking only one or two of the top companies from each sector was necessary in order to achieve sufficient diversification. Moreover, because most mutual fund companies own hundreds of stocks, they often run out of first-rate stocks and are forced to buy the second and third-tier stocks, thus diluting their performance. The small investor, however, has no such limitation, and can cherry-pick and put together a smaller portfolio of stocks that would make a typical mutual fund manager green with envy.    Overall, a fine book on investing, and not the least of its virtues is that it's well written and fun to read.	2004-11-10
468214:US	45193257	R2A74ZE046U5OA	1862044511	518981568	The Complete  Illustrated Guide to Tai  Chi	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A few comments	This is a well written and beautifully illustrated book on tai chi. The paper is the nice, glossy type so the photos and illustrations really stand out. But there is a lot of good information here too. There are the usual discussions of tai chi's health and spiritual aspects, but for me the best part of the book was the presentation of the Hou style short form, which I hadn't seen before, and the comparisons at the end of the volume where the author contrasts the different styles, such as Wu, Yang, Sun, Chen, Hou, and so on. Although brief, this gave me a better understanding of the origins, similarities and differences of the major styles. Much of the first part of the book is taken up with discussions of physiology, which, as a physiologist myself, I could have done without, but for the general reader there's some useful information here. One interesting feature is there are about a dozen interviews with different people who have been practicing tai chi for months to many years about how tai chi has helped or influenced them. Overall, a good book for a beginning to intermediate student.	2004-11-03
471928:US	45193257	RZZKC6NOOE9S0	0865681880	212241298	Karate Masters	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding first-hand interviews	A very readable and enjoyable collection of interviews with famous masters and exponents in the karate world. Alas, some of my favorites, such as Mabune and Nakayama, have passed away since this book was published, but Fraguas has done us the service of immortalizing their thoughts on karate in this great little volume. You'll find dozens of famous masters here, and it includes interviews with well known American and European experts (such as Dan Ivan, Chuck Merriman, and Ray Dalke in the U.S., and H. D. Plee in France) as well as Okinawan and Japanese masters. At the time of these interviews, many of these masters were already in their 50s, 60s, or 70s, and it was interesting to hear their thoughts on the evolution of karate during their lifetimes, as well as how their understanding of karate had changed or deepened with age. There were some surprises too, when I learned that Kanazawa had been studying Yang style tai chi since 1957 and was rated a master in it (he mentions there are 7 levels to Yang tai chi and he holds the highest level). He feels that tai chi has helped his karate, which was interesting, since I study tai chi and have found it useful to me also in many ways. Overall, a very fine book of fascinating and informative interviews with many of the most famous names in karate of our time.	2004-10-31
484458:US	45193257	RDR7VFSXAMD0I	0393324869	310723265	Naked Economics: Undressing the Dismal Science	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Readable and enjoyable intro	Finding good, politically unbiased and balanced econ books for the general reader and beginner isn't easy these days, since so many of the issues have become so polarized, but Wheelen keeps the political cant and rant to a minimum, so this is a good place to start. His explanations are clear and concise, well written, and often humorous.<br /><br />I have a special interest in monetary theory and also international economics, which is the area where many economists think that economics puts its best foot forward, because of the theory of comparative advantage, and I enjoyed the discussions of these areas. In fact, since we're on the subject, I thought I'd discuss the monetary issues a bit more here, since they can be puzzling, although some of what I include here is info not specifically from the book, but perhaps it'll be useful, since if you understand the following, you'll actually have most of the important ideas on this interesting and important and often paradoxical economic area.<br /><br />Basically, the question is what really is the value of money in a country's economy, and how do fluctuations in the value of the currency and the amount of the currency in circulation affect the overall economy? That might seem simple at first, but consider the following.<br /><br />You may know the story of the hyperinflation that occurred in Germany in the post-WWII years. Germany was saddled with some serious war debts and reparations, and so the government started printing money in order to pay them off. There's even some suspicion that they did this deliberately in order to pay them off faster with inflated dollars, which royally annoyed the French, who were basically getting stiffed. Very sneaky, if true. And clever--if you can make it work. However, it's also very risky, because there are few things more ruinously inflationary than the government printing money, and eventually those pigeons usually come home to roost, which they did in the case of the German economy with a vengeance. So the situation got out of control, and soon it almost took wheelbarrows full of money to buy a loaf of bread.<br /><br />However, the most interesting thing is how the German monetary authorities stopped the hyperinflation and got things back to normal. What they did was start buying back the worthless paper Deutschemarks with gold. This reduced the supply of Marks, and when people saw that they could get real gold for the paper money, they cashed in in droves. Eventually, the German Deutsche Bank, basically their Federal Reserve, pulled enough money out of circulation to get the inflation under control.<br /><br />This brings up the interesting question of whether one needs gold backing for your currency. Well, in the modern world, it's no longer necessary, since countries like Japan have very little gold backing for their currency, and yet the Yen is one of the so-called \\"hard currencies.\\" Contrast that with the former Soviet Union, which at least in the past had a lot of gold backing for their currency, and yet it wasn't worth much. What really determines the value of your currency in the modern international economy is it's value on the international monetary exchanges, which is basically what people will pay to buy it in order to buy your goods and exports and so on, and to do business with you, not how much gold backing it has.<br /><br />But getting back to the German situation, something very similar happened here back in the early 80s when the prime interest rate hit 21%, because the government was printing money due to the Vietnam war and the deficit spending of the late 60's and 70's. With that level of inflation per year, funny things start happening. For example, it's in the interest of capital-intensive industries or businesses requiring large on-hand inventories--such as retail stores or firms selling big-ticket equipment items and so on--to buy as much inventory as possible on credit, and then to pay the debt off with increasingly inflated dollars, which reduces your overall cost--essentially, not so different from what the Germans were doing.<br /><br />This might sound strange since you're talking about the \\"price\\" or cost of money and how inflation affects it, but inflation has the interesting effect of making future money payments less expensive to the borrower, so they have a vested interest in loading up on goods on credit and then paying it off over time. The longer the horizon or loan term the better they make out as long as inflation continues.<br /><br />In other words, with inflation running at 21%, in two years, the business paying back the loan gets a 42% discount on their cost of capital, assuming the interest rate is fixed, which is usually the case in business loans or at least businesses with good credit. Of course, lenders such as banks and savings and loans know about these tricks but surprisingly, there's very little they can do to hedge and protect themselves. This is one reason so many savings and loans went out of business back in the 80's.<br /><br />Now all of this might make inflation sound like the ultimate economic evil, but actually, and here's another odd fact about monetary economics--the reverse situation is actually worse--which is known as deflation. Recessions usually don't go into serious deflation, but a real bona fide depression will. This is what is really happening in a depression.<br /><br />In the case of a serious depression or deflationary spiral, the money supply contracts to the point where the total amount of money circulating isn't enough to keep the economic wheels of the country greased and operating smoothly thru what is known as the bank reserve ratio and negative multiplier effect. In other words, there is a systemic shortage of liquidity. Unfortunately, this situation is extremely difficult to correct, much more so than the inflationary situation.<br /><br />That's because with interest rates falling and/or very low, no-one has any incentive to lend dollars since, as in the case during the Great Depression, banks get their money from private depositors, and with banks failing, and interest rates at almost zero, no one has any incentive to put the money in the bank if the bank might fail, or if the business that took out the loan could go bankrupt and fail, as many do during depressions. So people stuff it in the proverbial mattress. Hence, there's no money to lend, and so businesses which depend on loans and outside financing (which is about 99% of big and medium size businesses in the U.S.) can't get the money to operate and the economy grinds to a standstill. The government can even print all the money it wants, but nothing happens, since the prime lenders don't want to borrow the money at the so-called Federal Reserve Discount Window and pass it on to borrowers and risk losing it for some measly return and interest rate. In other words, the risk/reward ratio just isn't worth it.<br /><br />To give you a better perspective on this, I can give you a fascinating fact. The average person tends to think of the stock market as synonymous with the overall economy, because it gets all the press and publicity, and that's true to some extent, but the truth is the bond markets operating behind the scenes which get much less press and attention (well, bonds are pretty boring compared to stocks) are actually ten times the size of the stock market and have a much greater impact than even the stock market on the overall economy. With no money to lend for loans and bonds, the economy grinds to a stop, until someone like the government \\"primes the pump\\" to restart it, the policy mechanism that the great economist, John Maynard Keynes, became famous for explaining, among other things. That's what happened back in the 1930's, but we really had to wait for the huge government spending of WWII to turn the situation around.<br /><br />So during deflation, money is tight and scarce, but the value of the currency keepsgoing up--just the reverse of inflation. So those who have money have more than they had before. But since deflation causes serious unemployment and underemployment and poverty, most people don't have excess dollars, so they're still poor. So you just can't win. That's why economics is sometimes called \\"the dismal science.\\" :-)<br /><br />If this all sounds strange, just think of what happens with a resource or a commodity when there's a shortage of supply--such as with oil right now--it goes up in price, right? That's just normal supply and demand. Same thing in deflation. With a shortage in the supply of greenbacks, the value goes up just like in the case of any material good, except it's confusing to think of lots of money causing a lack of purchasing power as in the case of inflation, and a lack of money creating more purchasing power as in the case of deflation. In practical terms, the dollar's worth more--but no-one is spending them! Hence, paradoxically, money is worth more in a stagnant economy where no one has any incentive to spend it. You might wonder how something can be worth more when no one wants it, since, in most cases, what determines the value of something is the demand for it, but this is where monetary theory parts with normal intuition and common sense about how supply and demand should work, and that's just the way it is.<br /><br />Anyway, that's not a bad little summary of monetary economics. If you understand that you actually have most of the important points. As you can see, it's strange stuff in some ways, but fun once you get the hang of it since it is powerful and explains some puzzling issues.ry low, no-one has any incentive to lend dollars since, as in the case during the Great Depression, banks get their money from private depositors, and with banks failing, and interest rates at almost zero, no one has any incentive to put the money in the bank if the bank might fail, or if the business that took out the loan could go bankrupt and fail, as many do during depressions. So people stuff it in the proverbial mattress. Hence, there's no money to lend, and so businesses which depend on loans and outside financing (which is about 99% of big and medium size businesses in the U.S.) can't get the money to operate and the economy grinds to a standstill. The government can even print all the money it wants, but nothing happens, since the prime lenders don't want to borrow the money at the so-called Federal Reserve Discount Window and pass it on to borrowers and risk losing it for some measly return and interest rate. In other words, the risk/reward ratio just isn't worth it.  <br /> <br />To give you a better perspective on this, I can give you a fascinating fact. The average person tends to think of the stock market as synonymous with the overall economy, because it gets all the press and publicity, and that's true to some extent, but the truth is the bond markets operating behind the scenes which get much less press and attention (well, bonds are pretty boring compared to stocks) are actually ten times the size of the stock market and have a much greater impact than even the stock market on the overall economy. With no money to lend for loans and bonds, the economy grinds to a stop, until someone like the government \\"primes the pump\\" to restart it, the policy mechanism that the great economist, John Maynard Keynes, became famous for explaining, among other things. That's what happened back in the 1930's, but we really had to wait for the huge government spending of WWII to turn the situation around.  <br /> <br />So during deflation, money is tight and scarce, but the value of the currency keeps going up--just the reverse of inflation. So those who have money have more than they had before. But since deflation causes serious unemployment and underemployment and poverty, most people don't have excess dollars, so they're still poor. So you just can't win. That's why economics is sometimes called \\"the dismal science.\\" :-)  <br /> <br />If this all sounds strange, just think of what happens with a resource or a commodity when there's a shortage of supply--such as with oil right now--it goes up in price, right? That's just normal supply and demand. Same thing in deflation. With a shortage in the supply of greenbacks, the value goes up just like in the case of any material good, except it's confusing to think of lots of money causing a lack of purchasing power as in the case of inflation, and a lack of money creating more purchasing power as in the case of deflation. In practical terms, the dollar's worth more--but no-one is spending them! Hence, paradoxically, money is worth more in a stagnant economy where no one has any incentive to spend it. You might wonder how something can be worth more when no one wants it, since, in most cases, what determines the value of something is the demand for it, but this is where monetary theory parts with normal intuition and common sense about how supply and demand should work, and that's just the way it is.  <br /> <br />Anyway, that's not a bad little summary of monetary economics. If you understand that you actually have most of the important points. As you can see, it's strange stuff in some ways, but fun once you get the hang of it since it is powerful and explains some puzzling issues.	2004-10-19
484793:US	45193257	R1OV6U2X3TV0KI	0226096998	833531432	A Commentary on Jean-Paul Sartre's Being and Nothingness (Midway Reprint)	Books	5	15	34	N	N	"If you want it, come and get it."	This is the best commentary on Sartre's book I've seen. In fact, you should probably read this book before Being and Nothingness, and then tackle that forbiddingly ponderous and dense volume afterwards. Many people start, but never finish the book, and this book may help you get \\"over the hump\\" in that sense, since it'll simplify things considerably and give you a leg up on some of the more difficult points. Anyway, since this is an excellent commentary on Sartre's book, I just wanted to add a few comments myself, especially about one particular existential idea that I find odd.<br /><br />I should warn you ahead of time that this is a very dark book review, just as Being and Nothingness itself can be, that being my point of departure. But a lot of it is black humor or satire and not meant to be taken seriously.<br /><br />Sartre wrote in this book that \\"Life is a useless passion.\\" He and other existential philosophers have maintained that life is \\"absurd,\\"--an idea that became a major tenet of existential thought.<br /><br />Well, as the memory of the 20th century fades behind us, let us consider how absurd or useless life may truly be. Although existential philosophy traces its roots back to Kierkegard in the last half of the 19th century, it was the 20th century in which existentialism really came to prominence, as philosophers attempted to create a philosophy of being to cope with the devastation of a century that saw not only the greatest scientific and medical advances, but also the greatest conflagrations of mass death and destruction in man's history--and which, ironically enough--were mostly made possible by man's own new-found technological capabilities. With these awesome new powers at his command, mankind unflichingly, even enthusiastically, embarked on a new era of unabashed and uninhibited mass death and destruction unprecedented in human history.<br /><br />It was indeed a century to remember, made all the more memorable by the millions of people caught in its deadly milieu. Millions died in World War I; 20 million more died during the Spanish Flu epidemic immediately afterward, and made worse by the weakened condition of state infrastructures and medical facilities after the war.<br /><br />In World War II, millions more died, including 20 million dead in Russia alone either directly from war casualties or indirectly through starvation, disease, and privation. Six million Jews, 1 million Russians--and even a quarter million Gypsies--were rounded up and systematically exterminated in the death camps (\\"better living through chemistry\\"), and tens of millions more died of starvation in India because the price of rice went through the roof.<br /><br />That doesn't take into consideration the myriad smaller conflicts, genocides, pogroms, famines, and other disasters in which thousands to millions of people died. Unfortunately, there was no shortage of them to grace and adorn each ill-fated decade of the 20th century, as more and more people were caught in its inimitable and seemingly inexorable machines of death.<br /><br />In addition to WWI in the teens and WWII in the 40's, respectively, there was the genocide of Armenians in the 1920's (1,000,000 people dead), the Rape of Nanking (300,000 dead), the Great Purges in Russia in the 30's (3,000,000 people executed or dead in the labor camps) the Korean War in the 50's, the famines in Biafra in the 60's and Ethiopia in the 80's, and America's geopolitical debacle, the Vietnam war of the 60's and early 70's.<br /><br />And there's more fun yet to come. Let's not forget the ever-lovin' Idi Amin in Uganda during the 70's (if you can say one good thing about Amin, it's that he was content to stay within his own borders and slaughter his own, instead of starting wars with everybody else, like most dictators). Africans, knowing a good thing when they see one, followed Amin with the internal massacres and tribal conflicts in Rwanda, Burundi, Sierra Leone, and Sudan in the 90's (to mention the most important ones), with untold millions of innocent people slaughtered, maimed, dead from disease and starvation, or displaced in refugee camps.<br /><br />Lest you think I'm unjustly singling out Africa, there was the recent genocide and atrocities committed in the former Yugoslavia, the recent terrorism in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world, and the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians (which has been going on for about 4,000 years--give 'em time--they'll figure out that they really hate each other eventually).<br /><br />Not to mention the spectre of nuclear annihilation, which somehow, humans have managed to avoid--at least for the time being. (No doubt the human race will screw that up, too). And last but not least--we now have the spectre of mass annihilation through bioweapons. (Isn't it great being part of such a technologically advanced race? We come up with such clever and fun little toys.)<br /><br />Yeah, you have to hand it to the human race. We know how to make progress. We've gone from sacrificing virgins (what genius invented that idea?) to being able to kill millions of people at a time with a single nuclear blast in only about 2,000 years. When the first two atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, 200,000 people (including, presumably some virgins, which made it okay, I guess) vanished in less than a second. And now we have bombs that are up to 5,000 times more powerful than these.<br /><br />But getting back to my main point. Given the above, describing life as \\"absurd\\" seems pretty lame, to say the least. Sartre was even awarded a Nobel Prize in Literature. When the news of the prize came out, Life magazine called him \\"The wall-eyed little man who figured it all out.\\" (Maybe Sartre should have just gotten corrective lenses for his eye problem and called it a day). But really, is this the best they can do?<br /><br />Don't get me wrong, I like much of what Sartre says and I might even go so far as to say he was a brilliant philosopher, but some people have been upset by what they see as Sartre's and other existential philosophers' overly \\"pessimistic\\" view of life. Given how things have generally turned out for the human race, however, especially in the 20th century, saying life is \\"absurd\\" seems itself an absurdly naive and over-optimistic understatement, and hardly anything for people to get upset about.<br /><br />Given the above, I don't think it is possible to be overly pessimistic about individual human existence, and perhaps more importantly, about the prospects for human society as a whole.<br /><br />There is always the possibility (it does occasionally happen) that an individual human being will become more enlightened. You can always tell when someone has become \\"enlightened.\\" His friends all start avoiding him like the plague and think he's gone totally nuts. At the social level, however, this never happens--since there are no, and never have been, any truly enlightened human societies--and probably never will be.<br /><br />Not to beat a dead horse or anything (another sadistic human custom, no doubt), but I'll mention one more social criticism of contemporary society that I happen to agree with. Especially in the west, adult life is mostly concerned with the accumulation of wealth and power--neither of which, as Arthur C. Clarke once wrote--should be the main concern, much less the only concern, of full-grown, mature men. It goes without saying that a society based on such consumerist ideals will never become truly advanced or enlightened. No wonder S-F writers dream of getting off the planet--they may not know where they're going in the universe either--but they sure as hell know it's a cosmic cluster-f_ck down here.<br /><br />I haven't even touched on the problem of individual crime, since I've been more concerned here with the broader social and historical issues. Suffice it to say that a society in which the mass media glorifies and makes heroes of serial murderers just to sell more magazines, newspapers, and advertising can't be all bad. After all, they'll probably make more money that way, which will be good for the stock--and in this market--that's nothing to shake a stick at.<br /><br />But returning to my earlier point, failing to achieve \\"true enlightenment\\" is the least of our worries, however, because if we were even close, that in itself would be quite an achievement. If human societies were just \\"advanced\\" as opposed to truly enlightened, we'd probably be 10 times better off than we are now.<br /><br />Well, we're about as far away from true enlightenment as you can get. In fact, the really tragic thing is that the human societies of the 20th century brought most of the above disasters down on themselves--tragedies which a less violent and more reasonable, socially intelligent, and responsible race would have been able to avoid. Or to put it another way, in another unfortunate and bizarre twist of human psychology, despite humans being the most intelligent and \\"evolved\\" species on the planet, it would seem we are also the only social species that is less intelligent as a group than we are individually. Or, as Mark Twain once said, \\"A committee is the only critter with 10 bellies and no brain.\\"<br /><br />Not that I'm a total nihilist. There is always the slim hope humans will change. I truly hope the human race will come to its senses before time runs out. It seems unlikely, however. Humans are too quarrelsome, violent, warlike, greedy, selfish, intolerant, bigotted, venal, petty, vain, neurotic, irrational, illogical, ignorant, short-sighted, and just generally vicious, mean-spirited and uncivilized a species (I could go on but one has to stop somewhere), and there just aren't enough truly good humans out there to make a difference. There are a few good people out there, I admit--but let's face it--we all know that in this life \\"nice guys finish last.\\" Similarly, the lessons of human history make it abundantly clear that unless good is very, very careful, evil usually wins out.<br /><br />Oh well. It's sad to say, since it's my own species I'm talking about, but the earth, and probably the universe as well, will probably be better off without us.<br /><br />I realize I've painted a pretty dim, dark, and ultimately depressing view (a 3D view?) of humanity and of humanity's future prospects. I hope I am wrong. Unfortunately, the history of the human race doesn't give one much cause for optimism. If we can screw it up, the human race probably will--even our own future. After all, we've screwed up 99% of our past history--and the future is just history that hasn't happened yet.<br /><br />Speaking of which, I don't want to give you the impression that there's no room for optimism in my life. In fact, I'm about the most \\"optimistic\\" guy out there--I'm just optimistic that the human race will Bite the Big One some day through its own habitual and perverse self-destructiveness and figure out some creative and fun way to wipe itself off the surface of the planet in one fell swoop. Although our history may be nothing to be proud of--I have every expectation and confidence that our ending will be a truly monumental and awe-inspiring achievement. I just hope I live long enough to see it; it would be a real bummer to miss out on humanity's glorious, universal, and final holocaust of mass death and destruction. Given humanity's talent for careening from disaster to disaster throughout its history, I'm sure it will be sooner rather than later--after all why delay the fun? Just think of the 20th century as the dress rehearsal for humanity's last curtain call.<br /><br />Come to think of it, why we're called \\"humanity\\" I don't really understand. We should be called \\"inhumanity.\\" \\"Humanity\\" has to be the only one-word oxymoron in the English language. (For those of you who weren't paying attention in your English class, an \\"oxymoron\\" is a rhetorical figure of speech in which incongruous or contradictory words are combined, as in \\"thunderous silence\\", or \\"mournful optimist,\\" or \\"a just society,\\" or \\"a kind and wise human being.\\")<br /><br />I know some people will say it'll never happen--that the human race will become wise before it's too late and somehow turn back from the brink of disaster. Obviously these people have never stuck their noses inside a single history book for more than five minutes. But the ultimate problem, and the ultimate reality--is that we humans, both individually and as a species--would rather live down to our lowest impulses and desires rather than the reverse. After all, that takes genuine discipline and real moral fiber--which is no fun at all for a snarling, primitive, vicious ground monkey with a brain too big for his Johnson (among other things--such as the 40,000 nuclear missiles and bombs still in existence).<br /><br />But there is always hope, and the future is as good place for our hopes to reside as any--because if there's going to be any hope for the human race, it will have to be there--since there obviously isn't any hope for humanity based on our past.<br /><br />And maybe what I've said here is what Sartre and the other existentialists really meant to say? Perhaps being civilized philosophers and academic-types, they were just trying to be polite and soft-pedal it a bit.<br /><br />Well, I'm not a philosopher, I'm not an academic (not anymore, anyway)--and maybe I'm not even civilized! So does that mean I'm telling it like it is?<br /><br />We'll see. In the meantime, I'm sure the geopolitical gladiatorial games that is human civilization will continue to provide all the sadistic and voyeuristic \\"bread and circuses\\" action (coming to you live on the 6 o'clock news!) you could want.eroes of serial murderers just to sell more magazines, newspapers, and advertising can't be all bad. After all, they'll probably make more money that way, which will be good for the stock--and in this market--that's nothing to shake a stick at.<br /><br />But returning to my earlier point, failing to achieve \\"true enlightenment\\" is the least of our worries, however, because if we were even close, that in itself would be quite an achievement. If human societies were just \\"advanced\\" as opposed to truly enlightened, we'd probably be 10 times better off than we are now.<br /><br />Well, we're about as far away from true enlightenment as you can get. In fact, the really tragic thing is that the human societies of the 20th century brought most of the above disasters down on themselves--tragedies which a less violent and more reasonable, socially intelligent, and responsible race would have been able to avoid. Or to put it another way, in another unfortunate and bizarre twist of human psychology, despite humans being the most intelligent and \\"evolved\\" species on the planet, it would seem we are also the only social species that is less intelligent as a group than we are individually. Or, as Mark Twain once said, \\"A committee is the only critter with 10 bellies and no brain.\\"<br /><br />Not that I'm a total nihilist. There is always the slim hope humans will change. I truly hope the human race will come to its senses before time runs out. It seems unlikely, however. Humans are too quarrelsome, violent, warlike, greedy, selfish, intolerant, bigotted, venal, petty, vain, neurotic, irrational, illogical, ignorant, short-sighted, and just generally vicious, mean-spirited and uncivilized a species (I could go on but one has to stop somewhere), and there just aren't enough truly good humans out there to make a difference. There are a few good people out there, I admit--but let's face it--we all know that in this life \\"nice guys finish last.\\" Similarly, the lessons of human history make it abundantly clear that unless good is very, very careful, evil usually wins out.<br /><br />Oh well. It's sad to say, since it's my own species I'm talking about, but the earth, and probably the universe as well, will probably be better off without us.<br /><br />I realize I've painted a pretty dim, dark, and ultimately depressing view (a 3D view?) of humanity and of humanity's future prospects. I hope I am wrong. Unfortunately, the history of the human race doesn't give one much cause for optimism. If we can screw it up, the human race probably will--even our own future. After all, we've screwed up 99% of our past history--and the future is just history that hasn't happened yet.<br /><br />Speaking of which, I don't want to give you the impression that there's no room for optimism in my life. In fact, I'm about the most \\"optimistic\\" guy out there--I'm just optimistic that the human race will Bite the Big One some day through its own habitual and perverse self-destructiveness and figure out some creative and fun way to wipe itself off the surface of the planet in one fell swoop. Although our history may be nothing to be proud of--I have every expectation and confidence that our ending will be a truly monumental and awe-inspiring achievement. I just hope I live long enough to see it; it would be a real bummer to miss out on humanity's glorious, universal, and final holocaust of mass death and destruction. Given humanity's talent for careening from disaster to disaster throughout its history, I'm sure it will be sooner rather than later--after all why delay the fun? Just think of the 20th century as the dress rehearsal for humanity's last curtain call.<br /><br />Come to think of it, why we're called \\"humanity\\" I don't really understand. We should be called \\"inhumanity.\\" \\"Humanity\\" has to be the only one-word oxymoron in the English language. (For those of you who weren't paying attention in your English class, an \\"oxymoron\\" is a rhetorical figure of speech in which incongruous or contradictory words are combined, as in \\"thunderous silence\\", or \\"mournful optimist,\\" or \\"a just society,\\" or \\"a kind and wise human being.\\")<br /><br />I know some people will say it'll never happen--that the human race will become wise before it's too late and somehow turn back from the brink of disaster. Obviously these people have never stuck their noses inside a single history book for more than five minutes. But the ultimate problem, and the ultimate reality--is that we humans, both individually and as a species--would rather live down to our lowest impulses and desires rather than the reverse. After all, that takes genuine discipline and real moral fiber--which is no fun at all for a snarling, primitive, vicious ground monkey with a brain too big for his Johnson (among other things--such as the 40,000 nuclear missiles and bombs still in existence).<br /><br />But there is always hope, and the future is as good place for our hopes to reside as any--because if there's going to be any hope for the human race, it will have to be there--since there obviously isn't any hope for humanity based on our past.<br /><br />And maybe what I've said here is what Sartre and the other existentialists really meant to say? Perhaps being civilized philosophers and academic-types, they were just trying to be polite and soft-pedal it a bit.<br /><br />Well, I'm not a philosopher, I'm not an academic (not anymore, anyway)--and maybe I'm not even civilized! So does that mean I'm telling it like it is?<br /><br />We'll see. In the meantime, I'm sure the geopolitical gladiatorial games that is human civilization will continue to provide all the sadistic and voyeuristic \\"bread and circuses\\" action (coming to you live on the 6 o'clock news!) you could want.	2004-10-19
495185:US	45193257	R3JOMIVXTZW8EW	0804835268	605935797	Taijiquan: Chen Taiji 38 Form and Applications (Tuttle Martial Arts)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent book on the short form	Charles Tuttle has a long tradition of publishing quality martial arts books, and Nishiyama and Brown's Karate, The Open Hand and Foot Fighting, published in 1960, if I remember right, was the first large hardback book I had ever seen on the subject. This book is no different and continues the Tuttle tradition of publishing quality books in the martial arts.<br /><br />I've studied both Wu and Yang style Tai Chi, but have never had a chance to study the Chen style. There has been increasing interest in the Chen style in recent years, and I wanted to at least learn a little more about it and how it compares with them. While you can't really learn Tai Chi from a book, this book was fine for helping to learn more about the style and how it differs from the two other styles that I know. And if you already know the form, a book like this is useful for reminding you about the details of the postures, or the correct sequence of moves.<br /><br />Considering it's just under 100 pages, this is a surprisingly solid little book on the Chen style short form. At 38 moves, it includes key postures unique to the Chen style and eliminates the repetitions in the longer form.  The author gives a brief history of the origins and history of the Chen family style, attributed to Chen Wang Ting, who reinterpreted general Qi Ji Guang's northern boxing techniques as described in his Canons of Boxing in a more Taoist way. There is also a brief account of the evolution of the Chen style from the Lao Jia or original long form to the Xin Jia or New Frame version of both Xi Lu and Er Lu, emphasizing the development of the unique twining movements characteristic of the style, and pointing out that the modern tendency to exaggerate these twining movements and make them bigger is incorrect.<br /><br />In addition to the above, there is also a brief explanation of the short form, a list of individual movements broken down into four sections, and a chapter showing nine martial aplications. Finally, there is a description of yin and yang concepts and a short biography of the author (the current grandmaster), a short glossary, and bibliography with a few suggestions for further reading. Overall, another excellent book from Charles Tuttle on one aspect of the Chen style.lly, there is a description of yin and yang concepts and a short biography of the author (the current grandmaster), a short glossary, and bibliography with a few suggestions for further reading. Overall, another excellent book from Charles Tuttle on one aspect of the Chen style.	2004-10-09
496791:US	45193257	R1VEO99F9KD5JV	0521637228	319521373	The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A few comments	Maybe it's just me, but I think that over the last 30 years there's been a dramatic improvement in the quality of short reference works in philosophy since I first studied it way back then. I had several of the classic one-volume books in the past, including some that are out of print now, such as Dagobert Runes's brief Dictionary of Philosophy (which wasn't exactly a \\"classic,\\" but anyway, it was an enjoyable brief exposition nevertheless), but I think the ones that are available now are much better.<br /><br />This book is certainly an example of that trend, considered by some to be the best in the field, and for good reason. The current edition sports a team of 440 contributors, with 400 new entries, including 50 on important contemporary philosophers. It also claims to have more entries on non- Western and non-European philosophy than an other comparable volume, including Arabic, Islamic, Japanese, Jewish, Korean, Latin American, and even African. I can't vouchsafe all of those claims, but certainly the coverage of Arabic and Islamic subjects is much more extensive than was the case in such reference works in the past. Another thing I liked is the coverage of modern logicians such as Quine and also philosophers of science, which was my main area of interest, is especially strong.<br /><br />The entries range in length from a brief paragraph to an entire column (the pages are printed in two-column format), to several pages for important philosophers or key ideas in the history of philosophy. This book will appeal mostly to serious students and professionals seeking a brief refresher or discussion of whatever topic they're looking for, but the writing is often livelier than one might expect for a philosophy tome. Some, such as the one for Emerson, are as readable and enjoyable as anything I've ever read in the field, competing with Hector Hawkins's wonderful little book, Philosophy for Pleasure, a little gem of an introductory classic from the 50s that is now long out of print. All in all this is a great reference work and sourcebook for anyone interested in the subject of philosophy.ll in all this is a great reference work and sourcebook for anyone interested in the subject of philosophy.	2004-10-08
497491:US	45193257	RNX0GW8HQT3BJ	0809228335	161004158	Ultimate Guide To Tai Chi : The Best of Inside Kung-Fu	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding complilation of articles on tai chi	This is a collection of 29 articles on different topics in tai chi. The is range of subjects is quite diverse, from tai chi history to theory and practical applications, and even an article on tai chi in the National Football League. There are four main sections: Histories and Traditions; Basic Techniques: Advanced Techniques; and Profiles and Personalities; and there is also an Appendix showing practical spplications. Last but not least, there is a complete pictorial presentation of the entire yang form that is practically worth the price of the book by itself.<br /><br />The articles cover just about every aspect of tai chi, and I also noted there are several articles on the chen family style, reflecting the increasing interest in this style in recent years. It is a style especially known for its chin na and martial applications, and have always wanted to study it because of that, since my first tai chi style, known as the \\"square wu style,\\" because it atypically contains both linear and circular movements, is especially rich in chin na applications too, but I've never had the opportunity to study the chen style yet myself, being mainly a wu and yang style practitioner, but I am pleased to see the chen style finally getting some of the recognition it deserves.<br /><br />About the only lack in terms of coverage in the book is on pressure point strikes and dim mak. Many people aren't aware that tai claims to be the original dim mak technique and that originally there were no \\"pushing\\" techniques in tai chi, or pushing hands exercises, it consisted only of potentially deadly pressure point strikes, the severity of which only depended on how hard the point was struck. But as this knowledge is perhaps the only remaining area in tai chi that remains closely guarded I wouldn't expect it to get discussed in a book like this.  But overall the book contains a lot of good information on tai chi, and is the only book in this format that I know of on the subject, with articles by so many recognized experts.<br /><br />Since we're on the subject, I wanted to say a little more about the dim mak. Although I value tai chi as the most physically profound and difficult of the martial arts I've studied (and I hold instructor and/or black belt rank in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean systems), one has to take the Chinese medical theories of chi and meridians and pressure points mainly as descriptive analyses for further scientific analysis. To give you an example, my first kung-fu and tai chi instructor would occasionally say that a certain point was more vulnerable in the afternoon. Well, being a polite student (and his senior student) I never contradicted him on this, but this is now 25 years later and now I'm the teacher. The simple fact is that almost any pressure point strike could have a greater effect later in the afternoon than in the morning since that's when many people reach their physiological low during the day, and things like blood sugar and circulating catecholamines (such as epinephrine and norepinephrine) reach their lowest points and people just don't have as much energy. Furthermore, neuroactive chemicals that can cause drowsiness build up in certain areas of the brain. Finally, the brain, which can only digest glucose, is sensitive to a drop in glucose blood levels. All of this means that presure point and dim mak strikes could potentially have a greater effect at this point in a person's diurnal physiological cycle, but the ancients who devised these theories had no knowledge of blood chemistry, neurobiology, or any other modern medical science area.<br /><br />That having been said, I still regard tai chi as the most  complex, difficult, and profound system of martial culture I've ever studied, and getting back to the present book, this is a fine volume on tai with a lot of good information that should be of interest to beginning and advanced students alike.icles by so many recognized experts.  <br /> <br />Since we're on the subject, I wanted to say a little more about the dim mak. Although I value tai chi as the most physically profound and difficult of the martial arts I've studied (and I hold instructor and/or black belt rank in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean systems), one has to take the Chinese medical theories of chi and meridians and pressure points mainly as descriptive analyses for further scientific analysis. To give you an example, my first kung-fu and tai chi instructor would occasionally say that a certain point was more vulnerable in the afternoon. Well, being a polite student (and his senior student) I never contradicted him on this, but this is now 25 years later and now I'm the teacher. The simple fact is that almost any pressure point strike could have a greater effect later in the afternoon than in the morning since that's when many people reach their physiological low during the day, and things like blood sugar and circulating catecholamines (such as epinephrine and norepinephrine) reach their lowest points and people just don't have as much energy. Furthermore, neuroactive chemicals that can cause drowsiness build up in certain areas of the brain. Finally, the brain, which can only digest glucose, is sensitive to a drop in glucose blood levels. All of this means that presure point and dim mak strikes could potentially have a greater effect at this point in a person's diurnal physiological cycle, but the ancients who devised these theories had no knowledge of blood chemistry, neurobiology, or any other modern medical science area. <br /> <br />That having been said, I still regard tai chi as the most  complex, difficult, and profound system of martial culture I've ever studied, and getting back to the present book, this is a fine volume on tai with a lot of good information that should be of interest to beginning and advanced students alike.	2004-10-07
501175:US	45193257	R2CH69AW8HANVR	0595160492	696817604	The Throwing Madonna: Essays on the Brain	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Interesting, informative, and enjoyable	William Calvin is one of my favorite writers and thinkers on the brain. I don't always agree with his ideas, but he's creative in a way I enjoy and his ideas are always provocative and even pathbreaking in the way he integrates diverse areas--from linguistics to climatology--with the evolution and development of the brain.<br /><br />This books brings together some of his best essays, covering a diverse array of topics. For those of you who aren't familiar with Calvin, this is an excellent introduction to his thought, which I can highly recommend.<br /><br />Since we're on the subject, I thought I'd make a few comments on one of Calvin's interesting ideas--which is the proposition that spear-throwing was specifically the motor action that provided the stimulus for the subsequent evolution of the cerebral cortex and greater encephalization of the human brain. While I like this idea, and also am excited by the possbility of pinpointing such an important causative agent in our evolution, I also feel it's very difficult to isolate or pinpoint a specific action that could be responsible, but I'd like to consider it nevertheless in the light of what we do know about the development and nature of motor control in the human brain.<br /><br />If you look at the pyramidal cortex, which has the most complex motor capabilities, we see that it's mainly specialized for fine hand movements and coordination. For example, typing or playing the piano or a musical instrument gets mediated by this area--or the fine control required by a surgeon's hand.<br /><br />Rhythmic movements, even very fast ones, oddly enough, are not necessarily a highly evolved capability and in fact, if I remember right, are mediated by the cerebellar vermis, a structure in the cerebellum, or at least some portion of the cerebellum. We know from brain damage studies that people lose this ability from damage to the cerebellum. It has the tongue-twisting name of dysdiadocochinesia.<br /><br />But getting back to the spear throwing capability, much of the eye-hand coordination for this sort of thing is in fact still mediated by the cerebellum. For example, it is known that scale transformation of muscle movements and velocity prediction occurs in the cerebellum in hard-wired circuits that are basically using tensor matrix multiplication to handle the scaling issues and mapping issues between sensory and motor control functions.<br /><br />Speaking of \\"hard-wired\\" capabilities, I recall from my own studies of synaptic connectivity that the pyramidal cortex neurons have an average of about 3000 synapses with other neurons. Contrast this with those of the cerebellum, which are thought to have 100,000 connections, a truly staggering number. But this makes sense when you consider that it controls so many functions that have to be very quick and essentially automatic with very low time latencies and time constants.<br /><br />And if you've ever seen the mathematical studies in the area of occulomotor control theory, which mostly looks at the optic tectum and superior colliculus areas, you know how complex that can get even though it's technically not a cortical area. Mathematically, it is using Voltera-kernel based integro-differential equations for predictive target tracking and so on.<br /><br />So if you consider how advanced even the more primitive motor areas of the brain are, you have to find something pretty complex to require the intervention of the cerebral cortex.<br /><br />And we haven't even talked about the last major motor area, the basal ganglia yet, which are just below the cortex, the putamen, caudate nucleus, and the globus pallidus. These structures are mainly responsible for the dynamic regulation of muscle tension through various neural pathways and feedback systems, mainly the gamma motor efferent system to the golgi tendon organs in the muscle fibers and the alpha motor pathways going to the intrafusal fibers of the annulospiral endings of the neuromuscular spindles.<br /><br />Well, I didn't mean to wax so nerdy but anyway, that's about all the motor physiology I remember. :-) That wasn't my strongest area, exactly, being basically a sensory neurophysiologist and limbic system guy.<br /><br />But anyway, to sum up, from what I recall, much of the coordination in throwing a spear would still be mediated by many of these more primitive areas below the cortex. It was the fine hand and finger manipulation movements and requirements that seem to me to have been responsible for the evolution of the more advanced pyramidal motor cortex.<br /><br />However, all that having been said, Calvin could be right if the spear-throwing thing first got the evolution of the cortex going, and the pyramidal area then evolved later--which is basically what he's saying. My only problem with that is whether that ability requires the sort of control required by increasing encephalization. My understanding is that chimps don't have a pyramidal area, or at least a very highly developed one, and they can throw things just fine, but they couldn't play the piano, so that's another thing that sets us apart in addition to the language areas like Broca's and Wernicke's areas and so on, which they don't have to the same extent either.<br /><br />I had one other topic I thought I'd comment on, which is a little off topic, but it pertains to the present sorry state of humanity and to the relationship between our current lifestyle and what we are basically evolved for, which, especially in the case of advanced western countries, with our sedentary jobs and lifestyle, is very different our evolution.<br /><br />If you consider that chimps survive quite well with a brain of about 400-500 cubic centimeters, and the human average is almost four times that, all that extra brain power has just enabled us to get into more trouble. It seems clear to me that homo sapiens has evolved a brain much bigger than he needs and that accounts for his current sorry and unhappy state. :-)<br /><br />To elaborate a bit, consider the difference between a typical Homo sapiens and a typical Neanderthal. Homo sapiens is a more \\"gracile\\" species, with longer, slighter, straighter bones, lighter musculature, but faster, more agile, and more active. The difference is much like that between a runner and a wrestler. Of course, there are groups that are somewhat more naturally heavier boned and heavily muscled, such as certain northern European groups, but they're the exception to the rule.<br /><br />Basically, we're supposed to be chasing woolly rhinos and mammoths through the brush with fire-hardened and flint tipped spears rather than sitting at a computer screen all day totally sedentary, eating Pringles and drinking Cokes and not geting any exercise and getting fat. We're clearly evolved for a more active lifestyle and yet most of us, at least in the west, have jobs and lifestyles that are sendentary and relatively inactive.<br /><br />All this leads to lifestyle-related diseases like high blood pressure, diabetes, atherosclerosis, and so on, notwithstanding the fact that psychologically we're not suited to just being that sendentary either and I think that contributes to a lot of individual and social malaise and unhappiness, especially if you consider that, according to health statistics, 50% of Americans over the age of 40 are overweight.<br /><br />Anyway, just a few thoughts on one of Calvin's interesting recent ideas.at's about all the motor physiology I remember. :-) That wasn't my strongest area, exactly, being basically a sensory neurophysiologist and limbic system guy.     But anyway, to sum up, from what I recall, much of the coordination in throwing a spear would still be mediated by many of these more primitive areas below the cortex. It was the fine hand and finger manipulation movements and requirements that seem to me to have been responsible for the evolution of the more advanced pyramidal motor cortex.     However, all that having been said, Calvin could be right if the spear-throwing thing first got the evolution of the cortex going, and the pyramidal area then evolved later--which is basically what he's saying. My only problem with that is whether that ability requires the sort of control required by increasing encephalization. My understanding is that chimps don't have a pyramidal area, or at least a very highly developed one, and they can throw things just fine, but they couldn't play the piano, so that's another thing that sets us apart in addition to the language areas like Broca's and Wernicke's areas and so on, which they don't have to the same extent either.    I had one other topic I thought I'd comment on, which is a little off topic, but it pertains to the present sorry state of humanity and to the relationship between our current lifestyle and what we are basically evolved for, which, especially in the case of advanced western countries, with our sedentary jobs and lifestyle, is very different our evolution.    If you consider that chimps survive quite well with a brain of about 400-500 cubic centimeters, and the human average is almost four times that, all that extra brain power has just enabled us to get into more trouble. It seems clear to me that homo sapiens has evolved a brain much bigger than he needs and that accounts for his current sorry and unhappy state. :-)     To elaborate a bit, consider the difference between a typical Homo sapiens and atypical Neanderthal. Homo sapiens is a more \\"gracile\\" species, with longer, slighter, straighter bones, lighter musculature, but faster, more agile, and more active. The difference is much like that between a runner and a wrestler. Of course, there are groups that are somewhat more naturally heavier boned and heavily muscled, such as certain northern European groups, but they're the exception to the rule.    Basically, we're supposed to be chasing woolly rhinos and mammoths through the brush with fire-hardened and flint tipped spears rather than sitting at a computer screen all day totally sedentary, eating Pringles and drinking Cokes and not geting any exercise and getting fat. We're clearly evolved for a more active lifestyle and yet most of us, at least in the west, have jobs and lifestyles that are sendentary and relatively inactive.    All this leads to lifestyle-related diseases like high blood pressure, diabetes, atherosclerosis, and so on, notwithstanding the fact that psychologically we're not suited to just being that sendentary either and I think that contributes to a lot of individual and social malaise and unhappiness, especially if you consider that, according to health statistics, 50% of Americans over the age of 40 are overweight.     Anyway, just a few thoughts on one of Calvin's interesting recent ideas.	2004-10-04
501399:US	45193257	R1SLNUWSB4NACU	0800631633	913219007	Mystical Mind (Theology and the Sciences)	Books	3	23	33	N	N	A few comments	This book attempts to integrate mystical and religious experience with our current understanding of the brain. Starting out with a review of the revelant neuroanatomy and neurobiology, the authors go on to discuss those areas of the brain that are thought to be intimately involved with the mediation of mystical and religious experiences. Various areas of the brain have been found to produce feelings of wholeness and oneness akin to those experienced by mystics, such as has been found in the case of abnormal stimulation of the temporal lobe. The authors examine this evidence in detail, and then in the final sections propose a general theory of how the mind and brain give rise to mystical and spiritual experience.<br /><br />Since we're on the subject, I thought I would make a few more comments on that, specifically related to the mystical approach to knowledge and spiritual experience. The mystical view of the world and that of science now stand at a critical juncture, since science now has the tools to investigate this experience in more detail. The question I want to consider is that, although I think meditation and other mental disciplines can provide self-knowledge, and I think there is value in that, but what can we say about the mystical view of consciousness and the mind in view of current evidence?<br /><br />The mystical view of things and the western views were probably pretty close in terms of knowledge until I would say, post-Cartesian philosophy, but certainly after Kant, the western models have taken things much further than the old mystical models in terms of their understanding of the mind and brain. What they accomplished was certainly worthy of note for the time, but progress doesn't stand still, and things have just moved on, and they really haven't gotten the message.<br /><br />One reason the mystical models and concepts seem so vague and unsatisfying to modern ears is that they really have reached an impasse. The reason why their concepts are so vague is for a very good reason--and again for one they don't understand since they're usually not aware of the science--but when you understand the neurology, it's quite obvious.<br /><br />This is because the human brain has no intrinsic cranial nerves for sensing its own internal states, or even basic sensory information. In fact, you could take a knife to your own brain and you wouldn't feel a thing, because there are no intrinsic pain nerves. The brain is specialized to receive and process and analyze information from the five senses, not itself.<br /><br />Thus, the brain has no direct way of sensing and getting information about its own internal states, because it actually lacks the nerves for doing so. Hence, mystical knowledge must be gleaned second-hand from very indirect perception of these vague, amorphous, hard to define mental states. So these systems are really nothing more than vague speculations about what are basically epiphenomenal interior states.<br /><br />In other words, the brain really isn't designed to do what they're trying to do with it very well, since the very act of trying to empty the mind goes against highly optimized memory functions relating to memory storage and retrieval.<br /><br />I'd like to consider one more thing we've learned about the brain in the light of the present discussion. This is the question of why emptying the mind during meditation is so difficult. The mystical view doesn't explain this very well, if at all, only that it is very difficult to do, but that it is necessary in order to penetrate to the deeper levels of awareness and consciousness.<br /><br />The answer is basically very simple, even in terms of the brain neurophysiology (which it often isn't), and the answer came from a seemingly unlikely area--from sleep studies.<br /><br />It used to be thought that the brain basically was quiescent during sleep, except for things like dreaming and REM sleep, but many centers are active during sleep, such as thelocus coeruleus in the brain stem, the occulomotor nuclei, and so on. And also memory areas in the temporal lobes become more active. This is the reason why people often experience vivid imagery during sleep.<br /><br />But it was learned that memory functions play an important role in sleep that is different from waking consciousness as a result. It turns out that during waking, the memory areas of the brain are actually under a certain amount of constant inhibition from centers lower in the brain. The reason why is that without it, memories would flood willy-nilly into consciousness, and make ordinary attention and thought impossible. Hence, there must be some overall mechanism to prevent this from happening. There is and it's known as corticocipedal inhibition.<br /><br />Then, as I said, during sleep, this tonic or constant inhibition is turned off, allowing memories to be retrieved pretty much at random. This is one reason for why dreams often seem to be so chaotic or nonsensical, since there's no overall pattern to the flow of memories. Some dreams are more meaningful, of course, but many aren't and this is the reason why.<br /><br />This is also why so many pre-scientific systems of thought that try to make sense of dreams are unfortunately missing the point-- which is that many, perhaps most dreams--are just nonsense.<br /><br />But anyway, the point here is that during wakefulness the inhibition of the memory areas and consciousness is basically optimized so that memories are retrievable when needed, but not so disinhibited that they flood into consciousness unbidden.<br /><br />Hence, the reason for why it's so difficult to quiet the \\"monkey brain.\\" During meditation, the memory areas become more active and so it's harder to quiet them down. So the reason why emptying the mind is so difficult is that it goes against the basic overall functioning of the memory and attention mechanisms.<br /><br />To sum up, I am willing to concede that meditation and other mental disciplines perhaps can provide self-knowledge, and there is certainly value in that, but as far as an explanation of the mind and consiousness goes, they are no longer adequate. It's now very clear that self-knowledge derived from introspective methods and a true explanation for the mind and consciousness are two different things.<br /><br />Finally, consider the concept of \\"pure consciousness\\" in mystical experience. Despite the undifferentiated and unitary nature of consciousness that is presented to meditative experience, this is an illusion, nor is there any one area in the brain where such consciousness can be said to reside or be controlled. Rather, it has become clear from recent research that consciousness is the result of a number of diverse and separate brain areas whose actions have to be coordinated and integrated in time for it to occur.<br /><br />These explanations are good examples of the type of advance in our understanding of the brain that had to await the advent of more modern scientific techniques.on. And also memory areas in the temporal lobes become more active. This is the reason why people often experience vivid imagery during sleep.     But it was learned that memory functions play an important role in sleep that is different from waking consciousness as a result. It turns out that during waking, the memory areas of the brain are actually under a certain amount of constant inhibition from centers lower in the brain. The reason why is that without it, memories would flood willy-nilly into consciousness, and make ordinary attention and thought impossible. Hence, there must be some overall mechanism to prevent this from happening. There is and it's known as corticocipedal inhibition.     Then, as I said, during sleep, this tonic or constant inhibition is turned off, allowing memories to be retrieved pretty much at random. This is one reason for why dreams often seem to be so chaotic or nonsensical, since there's no overall pattern to the flow of memories. Some dreams are more meaningful, of course, but many aren't and this is the reason why.     This is also why so many pre-scientific systems of thought that try to make sense of dreams are unfortunately missing the point-- which is that many, perhaps most dreams--are just nonsense.     But anyway, the point here is that during wakefulness the inhibition of the memory areas and consciousness is basically optimized so that memories are retrievable when needed, but not so disinhibited that they flood into consciousness unbidden.     Hence, the reason for why it's so difficult to quiet the \\"monkey brain.\\" During meditation, the memory areas become more active and so it's harder to quiet them down. So the reason why emptying the mind is so difficult is that it goes against the basic overall functioning of the memory and attention mechanisms.     To sum up, I am willing to concede that meditation and other mental disciplines perhaps can provide self-knowledge, and there is certainly value in that, but as far as an explanation of the mind and consiousness goes, they are no longer adequate. It's now very clear that self-knowledge derived from introspective methods and a true explanation for the mind and consciousness are two different things.    Finally, consider the concept of \\"pure consciousness\\" in mystical experience. Despite the undifferentiated and unitary nature of consciousness that is presented to meditative experience, this is an illusion, nor is there any one area in the brain where such consciousness can be said to reside or be controlled. Rather, it has become clear from recent research that consciousness is the result of a number of diverse and separate brain areas whose actions have to be coordinated and integrated in time for it to occur.    These explanations are good examples of the type of advance in our understanding of the brain that had to await the advent of more modern scientific techniques.	2004-10-04
508533:US	45193257	R27NQEDO4K7E58	006097740X	974406986	A Mood Apart: The Thinker's Guide to Emotion and Its Disorders	Books	5	21	29	N	N	Informative and enjoyable	This is a well written, informative and even enjoyable book to read on what is in many ways a difficult subject for people. The author discusses the psychological, physiological, and social factors surrounding bipolar disorders and depression and discusses current treatments and how they work. The book is full of a tremendous amount of practical information that should be of use to anyone concerned with this subject.<br /><br />I myself studied the neurobiology and psychology of emotion and moods in grad school, and I thought I'd make a few more comments there, since we're on the subject, in case anyone finds them useful.<br /><br />As many people are aware, much of the research up to this point on mood disorders has focused on the serotonin and dopaminergic issues, especially since these chemicals have a profound influence on the limbic system areas and the areas they connect with, such as the temporal, frontal, and prefrontal cortex, which are responsible for emotional behavior and many aspects of personality. It is well established that chemical imbalances and/or damage, such as through trauma and stroke and so on, can cause various syndromes, ranging from mood and emotional disorders to cognitive deficiencies. We still have a lot to learn about all this, but the basic chemical pathways, neurophysiology, and neuroanatomy has been worked out pretty well at this point. We'll be able to make more specific correlations as further progress is made. For example, deficits in long-term motivation (which many people have) have been found to be associated with the nerve pathways connecting the prefrontal cortex and the limbic system.<br /><br />Some of this research may even be relevant to issues relating to schizophrenia and even the problem of consciousness itself. For example one thing that has become clear in recent decades is that what we call \\"consciousness\\" actually results from the integration of separate and diverse brain areas whose functions have to be coordinated in time in order for consciousness to occur,  and that when this integration becomes impaired, there are problems. It has been suggested that this by itself could be responsible for schizophrenia. Of course, it remains to be seen if can be treated some way, but again, our understanding of the possible mechanism is continuing to progress.<br /><br />Another fascinating study I read relating to another aspect of emotional behavior was the finding that 70% of death-row inmates have been found to have abnormal EEGs and brain waves emanating from the amygdala, a structure in that primitive and often nefarious region of our brains known as the limbic system, wherein many of our most basic motivations, drives and needs are controlled--both good and bad.<br /><br />The amygdala is well known to be involved in aggressive and even homicidal behavior. In one famous case, a formerly quiet, unassuming man developed an amygdalar tumor and went up a tower at the Univ. of Texas back in the early 60s and shot 17 people and wounded 30 others before he was stopped. There are now drugs that treat abnormal electrical activity in the brain, and the hope is that someday they may even be able to detect and prevent situations like this.<br /><br />For a another fascinating example, take homosexuality, which many people still think is a form of psychopathology. Freud said it was because the boy didn't have a strong father figure, and so doesn't know better. For years homosexuals were treated with psychoanalysis with no effect. Then about 20 years ago, a scientist at Caltech made the amazing discovery that heterosexuals and homosexuals had different neurochemical and anatomical characteristics in one of the limbic areas known as the neurosecretory zone of the preoptic hypothalamic nucleus. In fact, he was able to get animals to display either heterosexual or homosexual behavior by diffusing neurosynaptic chemicals into the preoptic area. So much for the Freudian theory. This research proves that this aspect of our behavior is due entirely to how are brains are wired from birth, and has nothing to do with old notions of psychopathology.<br /><br />Finally, one of the most fascinating cases I came across was a number of people who had been perfectly normal, but had recently become almost complete \\"vegetables\\" and had to be hospitalized. At least so they seemed on the surface. There was nothing wrong with them cognitively, they still had normal reasoning ability and could talk and socialize if they wanted to. They just had no interest in it. They progressively lost interest in their famlies, jobs, friends, everything, and eventually had to be hospitalized.<br /><br />Finally, it was discovered that these people had amazingly developed an epileptic seizure focus in the orgasm center in the brain. It's been a while since I read the article, but if I remember right, it had the tongue-twisting name of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. In any case, it was in one of the somatosensory processing areas in the thalamus, which is a structure just below the cortex but above the limbic system. Although this is technically a form of epilepsy, there are no convulsions associated with this syndrome (just as there aren't in the case of temporal-lobe epilepsy, which, since it occurs in the memory and associational area of the brain, produces intense visions and memories).<br /><br />Now it was obvious why these people weren't interested in anything else in their lives. They had orgasms that went on for several minutes, and due to the intensity of the electrical discharge, were probably 10 to 100 times as intense as a normal person's orgasms. And they kept having them. Especially the women patients said it was better than anything they could experience before. So they just sat there, waiting, yearning, hoping, for that next \\"seizure.\\"<br /><br />Of course, these people don't want to be cured. As for me, I want to know how I can sign up. :-)<br /><br />Anyway, just a few interesting things to consider relating to our knowledge of the brain and behavior. I realize I departed somewhat from the original focus of mood and emotional disorders, but perhaps you'll find my comments about other areas of the mind and brain informative or at least interesting.is research proves that this aspect of our behavior is due entirely to how are brains are wired from birth, and has nothing to do with old notions of psychopathology.  <br /> <br />Finally, one of the most fascinating cases I came across was a number of people who had been perfectly normal, but had recently become almost complete \\"vegetables\\" and had to be hospitalized. At least so they seemed on the surface. There was nothing wrong with them cognitively, they still had normal reasoning ability and could talk and socialize if they wanted to. They just had no interest in it. They progressively lost interest in their famlies, jobs, friends, everything, and eventually had to be hospitalized.  <br /> <br />Finally, it was discovered that these people had amazingly developed an epileptic seizure focus in the orgasm center in the brain. It's been a while since I read the article, but if I remember right, it had the tongue-twisting name of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. In any case, it was in one of the somatosensory processing areas in the thalamus, which is a structure just below the cortex but above the limbic system. Although this is technically a form of epilepsy, there are no convulsions associated with this syndrome (just as there aren't in the case of temporal-lobe epilepsy, which, since it occurs in the memory and associational area of the brain, produces intense visions and memories).  <br /> <br />Now it was obvious why these people weren't interested in anything else in their lives. They had orgasms that went on for several minutes, and due to the intensity of the electrical discharge, were probably 10 to 100 times as intense as a normal person's orgasms. And they kept having them. Especially the women patients said it was better than anything they could experience before. So they just sat there, waiting, yearning, hoping, for that next \\"seizure.\\"  <br /> <br />Of course, these people don't want to be cured. As for me, I want to know how I can signup. :-)  <br /> <br />Anyway, just a few interesting things to consider relating to our knowledge of the brain and behavior. I realize I departed somewhat from the original focus of mood and emotional disorders, but perhaps you'll find my comments about other areas of the mind and brain informative or at least interesting.	2004-09-27
508684:US	45193257	RZ9WRW576OBCP	0595160379	551533188	Beyond a World Divided: Human Values in the Brain-Mind Science of Roger Sperry	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent book on his thought	Sperry is most famous for his groundbreaking split-brain studies in epileptics, which so galvanized the popular imagination in the 60s and 70s that Sperry's name practically became a household word and the split-brain view of consciousness became a permanent part of the popular culture. However, in his later years, Sperry turned his mind to the problem of science and its relationship to society and of human values in general. This book examines these issues in the context of Sperry's thought and his contributions to neuroscience, and how his work continues to influence philosophical and neurobiological thought about the mind and brain.<br /><br />I studied Sperry's work myself in grad school as a young neurobiologist, and so I thought I'd make a few more comments there, as they provide another perspective on Sperry's work that complements the subject of this book, since, as I learned in grad school, there are both pro and con sides to Sperry's view of the brain derived from his famous split-brain studies.<br /><br />First, the pro side. Sperry's idea falls in general under the concept of the cortical specialization of cognitive abilities and there is no doubt there is some truth to that idea. For many years it's been clear that different areas of the cortex, and of the brain in general, are specialized for certain things.<br /><br />For example, the occipital lobes are involved in vision and perception, the temporal lobes are involved in memory and language, the lateral sulcus and gyrus area is involved with hearing, the pre-central or post-central gyrus (I can't recall which at this point) is involved in high-level motor functions, and the frontal cortex, which seemed the most amorphous and unspecialized of all in terms of its function, still has an important role in personality and behavior, and is intimately linked with the limbic system, where probably most of the motivations that drive our day-to-day behavior are produced.<br /><br />Now the con side. The problem with the simple right-brain/left brain hypothesis is the same as that for what is known as the classical ablation studies in neurobiology. Some years ago, a standard way of exploring the brain was to take animals like cats and mice and insert an electrode and destroy a specific part of the brain with an electrical current (this isn't done as much anymore), and then do exhaustive behavioral and cognitive tests to see what deficits the animal now had. The results of these experiments were often dramatic and led to the first rigorous descriptions of the functional neuranatomy of the various brain centers. (In neurobiology \\"functional neuroanatomy\\" is the area that seeks to correlate brain anatomy with function.)<br /><br />In the the same vein, a lot was learned for similar reasons from neurological patients from the two world wars who had damage to various areas of their brains. One time one of my professors made the remark that we also wouldn't know nearly as much about the functional neuroanatomy of the brain if it weren't for teenagers and young people riding motorcycles without helmets--a sad fact but unfortunately true. ;-(<br /><br />But getting back to the main point, the problem with this way of investigating the brain is that, although these correlations of specific abilities with specific brain areas are certainly intriguing and there is no doubt some validity to them, the problem is that they don't so much show what that structure in the brain does so much as how the brain functions without it. It's a subtle point but an important one. Although the brain areas may be specialized, a normal human brain never functions without the presence of the other areas and it's more correct to say those are what it's functions in terms of the overall integration of that structure in the brain.<br /><br />For example, take the issue of consciousness, a long-standing problem in classical psychology and the philosophy of mind. For the first time, after thousands of yearsof speculation, we have the first brain research studies that truly shed some light on this old problem. And it's clear that consciousness isn't a unitary entity, nor is there a specific area of the brain where it can be said that consciousness resides. Rather it's becoming clear that consciousness results from the communication and integration of diverse and separate brain areas whose processes are coordinated in time for consciousness to occur.<br /><br />The other problem is that since almost every area of the brain is connected to almost every other area, it's possible that much of the effects observed come from the destruction of fiber bundles and a loss of communication from another area in the brain who's communication parthways and fiber bundles just happen to pass through the area that was damaged. So it's often impossible from damage studies like these to say the effect was due entirely to the loss of that particular structure. Hence, because of the overall synaptic connectivity of the brain, a pure correlation of function with anatomy usually isn't possible.<br /><br />However, I will say that Sperry's theory has a stronger case here than the classical ablation methods, since his patients supposedly only had damage to the anterior and posterior commissure.<br /><br />Anyway, just a few more things to consider in regard to Sperry's important ideas and contributions to our thinking about the mind, brain, and consciousness.ousands of years of speculation, we have the first brain research studies that truly shed some light on this old problem. And it's clear that consciousness isn't a unitary entity, nor is there a specific area of the brain where it can be said that consciousness resides. Rather it's becoming clear that consciousness results from the communication and integration of diverse and separate brain areas whose processes are coordinated in time for consciousness to occur.  <br /> <br />The other problem is that since almost every area of the brain is connected to almost every other area, it's possible that much of the effects observed come from the destruction of fiber bundles and a loss of communication from another area in the brain who's communication parthways and fiber bundles just happen to pass through the area that was damaged. So it's often impossible from damage studies like these to say the effect was due entirely to the loss of that particular structure. Hence, because of the overall synaptic connectivity of the brain, a pure correlation of function with anatomy usually isn't possible. <br /> <br />However, I will say that Sperry's theory has a stronger case here than the classical ablation methods, since his patients supposedly only had damage to the anterior and posterior commissure. <br /> <br />Anyway, just a few more things to consider in regard to Sperry's important ideas and contributions to our thinking about the mind, brain, and consciousness.	2004-09-27
509520:US	45193257	R3T9NHCY3JQMEV	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	2	16	40	N	N	A brief comment	I only had one comment, which I hope will be taken in the non-partisan way in which it is intended, which is that a presidential candidate's service record at this point--whether Bush or Kerry's--is really only peripherally relevant to the job of president. More important is his understanding of geopolitics and having a knowledge of the business and economic issues--both domestic and international. Unfortunately, we haven't had a president in many years, either democrat or republican (if ever) that was particularly literate on these subjects. Fortunately, we have had Allen Greenspan as the Federal Reserve Chairman, who actually does know what he's doing, as compared to your typical politician, who doesn't. If it weren't for him, we'd be in even worse economic straits. But until we do, the U.S. economy will continue to be managed in a slapdash fashion by presidents with no real economic understanding or vision.  The only defense against the short-sighted economic policies of our politicians--whether republican or democrat--is for the American people to become knowledgeable and well-informed on the issues themselves.	2004-09-26
512858:US	45193257	RVIMZ95YSTZXZ	0226458067	795342322	The Essential Tension: Selected Studies in Scientific Tradition and Change	Books	4	20	33	N	N	A few comments on the evolution of the philosophy	This is a nice collection of Kuhn's essays on various topics in the history and philosophy of science, which should be of value to anyone interested in Kuhn's thought and specifically in the important theory he put forth in his famous book, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. In some ways, his approach is similar to Michael Polanyi's, so I thought I'd discuss both of them a bit here.<br /><br />Writers like Kuhn and Polanyi's subjectivistic approach to science are still popular in some circles, mostly because of the west's fascination with the individual consciousness and ego and with the existential and phenomenological approaches to reality that grew out of that. While this is understandable historically I believe that this approach is still invalid, so I thought I'd say a little more about that. But that will involve my discussing some basic philosophy, so I hope you don't mind if I wax a little nerdy here. I apologize in advance as this is a long review and perhaps a little technical philosophically, but perhaps you'll find my comments on the subject informative or at least useful.<br /><br />Basically, the most important concept in epistemology is the split between the philosophies of idealism and empiricism. Idealists believe that ideas about the external world are innate. Kant was the last major philosopher to articulate the classical position on this, and his influence is still being felt  by contemporary neo-Kantian theories and philosophers. For example, Kant mantained that the ideas of space and time were so fundamental that they had to be built-in, innate ideas. He argued that the test of this is that if one can't imagine a universe without a certain idea, then that idea couldn't have come from external reality. While this is an interesting contention, and there is some support for it (perceptual psychologist Eleanor Gibson showed that even at 1 year of age babies can perceive depth and space very well, in her famous \\"visual cliff\\" experiments), it is unlikely that there are truly innate ideas, although there are probably innate abilities like Kant suggested, since as he pointed out, in order for the mind to be actively involved in organizing and structuring the data of the senses, this could not occur unless there were corresponding mental capabilities and constucts to match.<br /><br />But getting back to the philosophy definitions, as many people know, Locke, Hume, and most of the British philosophers were empiricists; they believed that ideas come from sense data and from external reality. This philosophical split between idealism and empiricism in thinking goes all the way back to Aristotle and Plato, so if you understand what it was about, you basically understand what most of western philosophy was about since then. The one exception here is the British philosopher Berkeley, who was an extreme subjectivist, and his philosophy is known as solipsism. He actually thought that the external world only existed because we perceived it, making it an extreme form of idealism. He did this by arguing that since we ultimately only know our own minds and its consciousness and internal perceptions, that there is no real way to prove that an objective, external reality even exists. While there is some truth to this, it's obviously an extreme position, and as result of recent research over the last 30 years in the neurophysiology and biophysics of sensation and perception, as in the case of David Marr's mathematical and theoretical work and his followers, we know now just how rigorous and analytical the process of perceiving external reality actually is.<br /><br />Although his work was in the area of mathematical and theoretical neurobiology, it has important implications for the entire field of mind and brain, since Marr's computational and mathematical approach to vision revolutionized the entire area of vision research, after which it was never the same. There are strong hints of this approach in the earlier work of quantitatively oriented perceptual psychologists such as Julesz and Gibson, but Marr's work takes the whole field a quantum leap further, giving it a rigorousness and mathematical elegance never before seen.<br /><br />For example, to mention just a few of his important ideas, and to give you some idea of how rigorous they were, Marr's demonstrations that retinal receptive field geometry could be derived by Fourier transformation of spatial frequency sensitivity data, that edges and contours could be detected by finding zero crossings in the light gradient by taking the Laplacian or second directional derivative, that excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields could be constructed from \\"DOG\\" functions (the difference of two Gaussians), and that the visual system used a two-dimensional convolution integral with a Gaussian prefilter as an operator for bandwidth optimation on the retinal light distribution, were more powerful than anything that had been seen up to that time.<br /><br />Hence, there is very little reason anymore to insist on the fundamental subjectivity of perception in the Kantian sense. It is true that there are visual illusions at the higher levels of sensory perception, but those are now regarded as special cases, and they are being shown to be explainable in terms of mathematical visual field-distortion theories of these mechanisms that can be quantified just like the basic sensory processes.<br /><br />But getting back to what I was saying before, Kant's view is still popular in some circles, and actually, he was right about certain things, such as the mind having certain built-in capabilities to understand reality, as I mentioned above in the case of idealism. The linguist, Noam Chomsky, and his ideas about an innate language capability are an example of this neo-Kantian approach, actually, which has been supported by developmental studies and by studies of feral children in regard to a critical period between 6 and 8 years of age, which is required for language developement.<br /><br />However, most scientists and philosophers since the early 20th century are probably either Logical Positivists or Critical Naturalists rather than Idealists or neo-Kantians in the strict sense. The problem with neo-Kantianism is that a systematic ghost of an illusion pervades even the finest specimens of this theory, since there is no strong connection to external reality anymore. Both Critical Naturalism and Logical Positivism were strongly influenced by scientific theories about reality, and Logical Positivism is really just the philosophy and analysis of scientific method and of the logic of scientific hypothesis and theories rather than traditional philosophy in the usual sense. Some of the famous Logical Positivists were people like Rudolf Carnap, A.J. Ayer, and Reichenbach, whose names many people know. Critical Naturalism does get more into traditional philosophical topics like metaphysics and ontology but again, they tend to take their ideas about reality from what science has discovered in quantum theory and cosmology and what that implies as far as figuring out the metaphysics and ontology of the real world.<br /><br />Alfred North Whitehead and Bertrand Russell were two famous 20th century philosophers who were examples of the Critical Naturalism school, and both of them were mathematicians as well as philosophers. Whitehead was Russell's math professor, and in fact, they both wrote a famous work on mathematical logic, The Principia Mathematica, in which they show that the basic mathematical operations can be derived from logic.<br /><br />Since we're on the subject, I thought I'd make several comments specifically on Kuhn's theory as set forth in his famous book, the Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Kuhn's idea qualifies as a psychohistorical explanation of the nature of scientific progress, because scientists must have already made a cognitive shift to a new mindset before acceptance of the new theory canoccur.<br /><br />Other people have commented on similar ideas in the works of Feyerabend, Popper, and Polanyi, so I won't repeat any of that here. What I will say, however, is that this theory, while interesting, makes as little, or as much sense, itself, as the irrational science it purports to explain.<br /><br />First, Kuhn's explanation of the process seems plausible psychologically but in fact is not supported by the psychological literature itself. People change deeply held convictions and ideas not because of an external paradigm shift, but because they become convinced internally that the new idea is superior to the old. Why? Because it explains the facts better, makes more powerful predictions, or is simpler. In other words, it is a fairly logical, reasonable process. This should surprise no-one but Kuhn.<br /><br />Second, Kuhn's theory ignores the innumerable scientific hypotheses, theories, and advances that displaced earlier explanations with very little or no resistance.<br /><br />Third, Kuhn misinterprets the initial resistance to Einstein's Theory of Relativity. The real problem with the acceptance of this theory is that when it made its debut (especially in the case of Einstein's General Theory), few physicists themselves could even understand the mathematics and physics involved. Ignorance should not be confused with scientific irrationalism or just stubborn refusal to accept the truth.<br /><br />Well, I hope you didn't mind my little philosophy digression, but I thought I'd make a few comments about the evolution of these ideas since Kuhn and Polanyi's theories are best understood in the context of the development of philosophical ideas over the last several centuries.entists and philosophers since the early 20th century are probably either Logical Positivists or Critical Naturalists rather than Idealists or neo-Kantians in the strict sense. The problem with neo-Kantianism is that a systematic ghost of an illusion pervades even the finest specimens of this theory, since there is no strong connection to external reality anymore. Both Critical Naturalism and Logical Positivism were strongly influenced by scientific theories about reality, and Logical Positivism is really just the philosophy and analysis of scientific method and of the logic of scientific hypothesis and theories rather than traditional philosophy in the usual sense. Some of the famous Logical Positivists were people like Rudolf Carnap, A.J. Ayer, and Reichenbach, whose names many people know. Critical Naturalism does get more into traditional philosophical topics like metaphysics and ontology but again, they tend to take their ideas about reality from what science has discovered in quantum theory and cosmology and what that implies as far as figuring out the metaphysics and ontology of the real world.    Alfred North Whitehead and Bertrand Russell were two famous 20th century philosophers who were examples of the Critical Naturalism school, and both of them were mathematicians as well as philosophers. Whitehead was Russell's math professor, and in fact, they both wrote a famous work on mathematical logic, The Principia Mathematica, in which they show that the basic mathematical operations can be derived from logic.    Since we're on the subject, I thought I'd make several comments specifically on Kuhn's theory as set forth in his famous book, the Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Kuhn's idea qualifies as a psychohistorical explanation of the nature of scientific progress, because scientists must have already made a cognitive shift to a new mindset before acceptance of the new theory can occur.     Other people have commented on similar ideas in the works of Feyerabend, Popper, and Polanyi, so I won't repeat any of that here. What I will say, however, is that this theory, while interesting, makes as little, or as much sense, itself, as the irrational science it purports to explain.     First, Kuhn's explanation of the process seems plausible psychologically but in fact is not supported by the psychological literature itself. People change deeply held convictions and ideas not because of an external paradigm shift, but because they become convinced internally that the new idea is superior to the old. Why? Because it explains the facts better, makes more powerful predictions, or is simpler. In other words, it is a fairly logical, reasonable process. This should surprise no-one but Kuhn.     Second, Kuhn's theory ignores the innumerable scientific hypotheses, theories, and advances that displaced earlier explanations with very little or no resistance.     Third, Kuhn misinterprets the initial resistance to Einstein's Theory of Relativity. The real problem with the acceptance of this theory is that when it made its debut (especially in the case of Einstein's General Theory), few physicists themselves could even understand the mathematics and physics involved. Ignorance should not be confused with scientific irrationalism or just stubborn refusal to accept the truth.    Well, I hope you didn't mind my little philosophy digression, but I thought I'd make a few comments about the evolution of these ideas since Kuhn and Polanyi's theories are best understood in the context of the development of philosophical ideas over the last several centuries.	2004-09-23
514788:US	45193257	R2EOT88XM9378F	0312324723	706279848	Bush Country: How Dubya Became a Great President While Driving Liberals Insane	Books	4	7	16	N	N	A few comments	I admit to being fairly apolitical, having given up on following it pretty much in disgust about 20 years ago. So I make no great claims when it comes to having much in the way of political acumen. On the other hand, I do know about economics, so I was interested to read any of the author's comments about Bush's economic vision for the future, or even something about the Bush family's financial empire and their many and varied connections to big business and the military, and what that has meant for the country for the last several decades.<br /><br />Well, there wasn't much of that in this book, but I still found it useful for what issues it does discuss. Still, I discovered that books about political personages (and even the president of the United States) and poitical topics aren't really my thing. I suppose I should try to be a better citizen and be better informed on the subject, but I just prefer reading up on economics and also the physical and biological sciences.<br /><br />Oh well, what can I say. Perhaps that makes me a poor citizen, but as I said, at least I'm well-read and well-informed on the economic issues, which is more than you can say for most Americans, who simply accept the pronouncements of the politicians about the economy when they don't know anymore than their contituents do. So I thought I'd at least leave you with a few comments about that in regard to some of the present economic issues that I think everyone should be concerned about, especially the recent tax cut. This tax cut was much trumpeted by the current administration and reported on in the press as a much needed financial and economic stimiulus to continue encouraging the nascent economic recovery here in the U.S.<br /><br />But was that really the case?<br /><br />Unfortunately the history of tax cuts is that they are usually the last economic stimulus to be applied during an economic downturn, and by then the economy is already recovering, and the tax cut has the effect of spurring inflation more than it does revenues. This was true of almost all the tax cuts in the U.S. in the 20th century, and will likely be the case in the 21st if past history is any indication.<br /><br />A recent research study also revisited this issue, I think it was by the Federal Reserve, if I remember right, who I trust more than your typical republican or democratic party ideologue, and it came to the same conclusion as when I was studying economics many years ago.<br /><br />Anyway, it's not that the idea is a bad one, it's just that with the squabbling politicians we have running this country, they argue about the tax cut or it gets delayed for other reasons until it's so late that it's actually not needed as an economic stimulus and it would be better to withold it and use the money for something else. But that's what happens when you have people who are economic simpletons running the country.<br /><br />There's more to the problem also, but I don't want to get too technical, such as the fact that a misapplied tax cut actually causes a nonlinearly accelerating inflation curve, since in an economy as large and powerful as the U.S., once inflation gets going it's about five times harder to stop as it is in a small country, since it's like trying to turn a battleship around. Basically this means that an incorrectly applied tax cut is worse than not having one at all, but unfortunately, that's how most of them have worked out. But as I don't want to get too deep into the economics, I'll leave it at that.<br /><br />But just remember that the simplistic, naive, sugar-coated economics that both republicans and democrats try to foist on the economically illiterate and uneducated American public is usually almost complete nonsense. The only defense against this is for the public to become economically literate themselves (which seems an unlikely eventuality).<br /><br />Well, I apologize for making the review more about my own comments than the book itself, but actually, from reading the other reviews here, which seem to be either from Bush-haters or supporters and so are basically saying nothing new and preaching to the choir, at least my comments are a non-partisan and more objective consideration of the economic issues, and perhaps you'll find them useful for that.r from Bush-haters or supporters and so are basically saying nothing new and preaching to the choir, at least my comments are a non-partisan and more objective consideration of the economic issues, and perhaps you'll find them useful for that.	2004-09-21
518192:US	45193257	RV55TIOHE3YOI	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	30	36	N	N	A few comments on the economic issues	I admit to being fairly apolitical, having given up on following it pretty much in disgust about 20 years ago. So I make no great claims when it comes to having much in the way of political smarts. On the other hand, I do know something about economics, so I was interested to read Phillips' comments about the Bush family's financial empire and their many relationships and connections to the military-industrial complex, and what that has meant for American politics for the last 40 years. They are certainly more extensive than anything I knew about before. So I found that interesting and informative and thought I'd make a few more comments here specifically about some of the present economic issues that I think everyone should be concerned about.<br /><br />As I said, I don't really follow politics that much, but I do follow economics, and the current government's actions, especially in regard to the deficit and the recent tax cut, have me concerned, for several reasons.<br /><br />This tax cut occurred during the worst deficit in U.S. history. This is a bad idea for several reasons. Now the national debt is worse than ever, and with the tax cut and American jobs going overseas, the private and corporate tax base is progressively falling, since people aren't making as much money and U.S. corporations aren't as profitable as they were in the 90s.<br /><br />This means that the government gets less tax revenue, and has more trouble paying the debt service on the national debt, so they start printing money. This works for a while, but there are few things more ruinously inflationary than the government printing money. You might remember what happened to Germany back during the Depression, when it took wheelbarrels full of money to buy a loaf of bread. That was because Germany was printing money like crazy to pay off its war debts. Well, those war debts are a lot smaller proportionally than the deficit the U.S. is currently facing. That's why the only bank in the world that is more of an inflation hawk than the U.S. Federal Reserve is the German Deutsches Bank--basically their Federal Reserve.<br /><br />That's not the end of it. With the dollar depreciating in value due to inflation, its value also declines relative to foreign currencies. Since the U.S. imports more than it exports, it runs another deficit there. And since a depreciating dollar means that the U.S. must pay more for imports, that increases the trade deficit. That just adds to the debt problem and produces further inflationary pressures.<br /><br />At this point the amount of revenue derived from the tax cut is pretty small potatoes compared to all the money lost due to inflation and other related problems. But apparently the politicians running this country have neglected to take Econ 1A.<br /><br />If anyone is wondering about the likelihead of such a scenario occuring and what it might be like--it's happened before--and in recent history. It's why the U.S., between 1964 and 1981, a full 17 years, had an almost completely stagnant economy. People today have forgotten what happened back then, but the Dow-Jones Stock Index only went up one point during those 17 years. (Actually, it went up less than a point--.17, to be exact). With more and more people depending on their 401k's and other stock-based vehicles to provide for their retirements, this could happen again, and who knows what's going to happen with Social Security. We may not be able to count on that, either.<br /><br />By the way, I'm not partisan about this--both republicans and democrats can be equally ignorant and short-sighted when it comes to the real economic issues. The only bright spot in this entire situation is that Allen Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Chairman, actually does know what he's doing, which the politicians do not. If it weren't for him we'd be in much worse shape than we are now. He's done a great job--but he's going to retire in a few years.<br /><br />Anyway, just a few things to consider about the job our leaders are doing in regard to the economy.<br /><br />I also apologize in advance for making this review more about my own thoughts than the original book--but perhaps you'll find my comments about the economics useful--since this is information everybody should be aware of from having taken at least a basic econ class, or having read a good book or text on the subject on their own. The only defense against the short-sighted and ignorant economic policies of our politicians (whether republican or democrat) is for the public to become economically literate and knowledgeable themselves.he economy.     I also apologize in advance for making this review more about my own thoughts than the original book--but perhaps you'll find my comments about the economics useful--since this is information everybody should be aware of from having taken at least a basic econ class, or having read a good book or text on the subject on their own. The only defense against the short-sighted and ignorant economic policies of our politicians (whether republican or democrat) is for the public to become economically literate and knowledgeable themselves.	2004-09-17
519304:US	45193257	R3CF1DMIPZQ4XY	1590300459	743309199	Miyamoto Musashi: His Life and Writings	Books	5	104	111	N	N	Great book on the legendary swordsman	This is the most exhaustive and detailed study I've seen on Musashi yet. At 488 pages, with almost 150 pages of appendices, notes, a glossary, and an extensive bibliography, there is a wealth of material here on the legendary swordsman.<br /><br />Although a translation from the Japanese and intended to be a thorough, well-researched, scholarly work on Musashi, I thought it was pretty readable, well-written, interesting, and not nearly as dry and forbidding as it could have been for an academic study. If you have some previous knowledge of Japanese history or martial arts you shouldn't have any trouble with it. But be forewarned that it does require a little more patience than the more popular accounts of his life and times.<br /><br />There are chapters on Musashi's childhood and training, his duels and battles, his mature years, three chapters on his writings, and seven chapters covering Musashi's martial arts concepts and style of swordfighting, which includes chapters on training, budo, Musashi's school of swordsmanship today, and finally two chapters entitled \\"The Relationship Between Adversaries,\\" and \\"One Life, One Art.\\"<br /><br />There are many aspects of Musashi's life and ideas that get discussed in the book, but I thought I'd write a bit about what I learned about his personal philosophy. Many of you are probably knowledgeable about the specifics of his fencing concepts from having read his Book of Five Rings, so I thought I'd mention something about that instead, since it was something I didn't know as much about myself until I read this book, being more familiar with his ideas about the True Way of the Sword from having read his The Book of Five Rings previously.<br /><br />Musashi was in many ways a complex, contradictory, and perplexing personality, but we get important glimpses and insights into his character through the author's descriptions of his battlefield experiences, duels, and other exploits, and also in the discussion of his personal philosophy. For example, in the \\"Dokkodo,\\" or Musashi's 21 Precepts About Life, which he wrote only a week before his death, he offered the distilled essence of his experience and thought.<br /><br />For example, his 5th precept is, \\"Think lightly of yourself and deeply of the world,\\" which seems at odds with reports about Musashi's pride and ego, at least during his younger years. According to Nakanishi Seito, Musashi's pride kept him from working in the service of a lord with less than 500,000 koku (a \\"koku\\" being a bushel of rice owed to a lord from his subjects and vassals, and a standard way of determining wealth back in those times). And the first precept, \\"Don't go against the way of the world that is perpetuated from generation to generation,\\" seems to contradict the 15th precept, \\"Do not act following customary beliefs.\\"<br /><br />It's easier to understand some of the other precepts, such as #5, \\"Be detached from desire your whole life long; #10, \\"Do not let yourself be guided by the feelings of love,\\" #13; \\"Do not pursue the taste of good food;\\" and #18, \\"Do not seek to possess either goods or fiefs for your old age.\\" These certainly seem to reflect the more Zen-like and ascetic cast to Musashi's philosophy which he developed as a result of study and reflection and spiritual disciplines in his more mature years.<br /><br />Some of them are interesting for what they have to say on other subjects, such as #19, \\"Respect Buddha and the gods without expecting their help,\\" and also #16, \\"Do not seek especially either to collect or to practice arms beyond what is useful,\\"--an interesting sentiment coming from the most respected and dedicated swordsmen of his age.<br /><br />But as I said, this just goes to show that Musashi was a complex individual whose ideas about the sword and personal philosophy aren't necessarily easy to grasp without more than a passing familiarity with their author.<br /><br />While we're on the subject of Musashi, I thought I'd include a few comments here more specifically to do with Musashi's famous Book of Five Rings, which Tokitsu also discusses in detail in this book, since it contains, as I said, three full chapters devoted to the analysis and consideration of Musashi's writings. These comments reflect more my own interpretatation of Musashi's ideas, but I offer them for what they're worth in case you find them useful, as I approach the subject from the standpoint of both eastern and western ideas, philosophy, and science. Also they focus specifically on how to understand Musashi's seemingly paradoxical ideas about sword technique, so perhaps they'll be of interest to some of you for that reason.<br /><br />The Book of Five Rings sets out Musashi's philosophy and correct Way of the Sword. But the principles Musashi espouses are bound to sound perplexing to many people. Musashi says that the best stance is no stance, that too much strength is bad (your sword may shatter when clashing swords), and that even too much speed is bad (it may upset your balance), and that none of these are the true Way of the Sword. The best technique is, in fact, no technique.<br /><br />This sort of philosophy is bound to be more than a little confusing, so I'll see if I can clarify it a little. I'm not sure I understand Musashi either, although I've studied martial arts for many years and have read my share of both western and eastern philosophy, but I'll give you my ideas on how I relate to them just in case you find them useful.<br /><br />Basically what Musashi is saying is that once you've learned a technique and committed it to memory and especially \\"muscle memory,\\" it becomes fixed and is no longer adaptive. Your body becomes channelized into this form or technique, which then becomes limiting, preventing you from achieving true mastery, which is the ability to adapt and flow with any of the infinite number of situations you may encounter. Fixity is therefore dysfunctional and is not the true Way of the Sword. This might be what Musashi means when he speaks of the Way of Emptiness being his way and the true Way of the Sword. In other words, his technique is no technique because it is empty of all fixed, unchangeable, and unadaptive aspects.<br /><br />There is an analogous principle in Zen. In Zen, the highest level of technique is called \\"the technique that can't be seen.\\" This doesn't mean that the technique is so fast it's invisible. It's that the technique is so advanced and subtle that its principles aren't obvious and easily seen. Musashi's ideas seem to reflect this Zen Buddhist principle also.<br /><br />Interestingly enough, this idea has some support from western research into learning and the brain. In learning theory, there is the idea of \\"stereotyping,\\" (which has nothing to do with social or racial stereotypes), where motor movements that have been learned become fixed into a certain sequence or pattern, but which is not necessarily the most efficient or effective. My learning theory instructor used the example of shaving strokes. He realized after some years that he always did his shaving strokes in the same way, after having learned how to do them, but that they weren't necessarily the best way to shave, anymore. Now that he'd been shaving for years, he \\"re-engineered\\" his shaving strokes so that they were more efficient.<br /><br />This may apply to the martial arts too. After we've learned a certain movement and achieved a certain level of skill with it, we may become complacent and never go back and question the movement again, all because we believe we've achieved a level of \\"skill.\\" I notice Paul Vunak, an important martial artist in Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do and the Filipino martial arts, also emphasizes the learning of principles rather than \\"technique,\\" and specifically mentions this in his seminars. The idea is that once one has learned the principle behind the technique, one can do an infinite number of those techniques, depending on the situation.<br/><br />Another interesting physiological principle that is almost as paradoxical as Musashi's ideas has been found by western science. There is a phenomenon in neuromuscular physiology known as reciprocal inhibition of flexor-extensor pairs. This means that during muscle activity the opposing muscle tension is inhibited to reduce effort on the flexing muscle. So if you're trying to do a straight punch, the tricep tenses and the bicep relaxes, thus reducing resistance. The paradoxical aspect arises from the fact that by performing a small jerk backwards in the opposite direction to the punch the outward extensor motion can be speeded up. In kinesiology they refer to this as a \\"pliometric jerk,\\" and is how basketball players jump higher. But it also has equal application to the martial arts, and I've had good results using this to get more speed and snap in my own techniques and for my students.<br /><br />Anyway, I just thought I'd offer a few suggestions from my own experience on Musashi's book, although I can't say I fully understand it either. But I hope you find them helpful in some small way in your own understanding and training.<br /><br />Overall, this is a well-written, detailed, and exhaustive book on the life and times and philosophy of the famous samurai and swordsman.Way of the Sword. In other words, his technique is no technique because it is empty of all fixed, unchangeable, and unadaptive aspects.    There is an analogous principle in Zen. In Zen, the highest level of technique is called \\"the technique that can't be seen.\\" This doesn't mean that the technique is so fast it's invisible. It's that the technique is so advanced and subtle that its principles aren't obvious and easily seen. Musashi's ideas seem to reflect this Zen Buddhist principle also.    Interestingly enough, this idea has some support from western research into learning and the brain. In learning theory, there is the idea of \\"stereotyping,\\" (which has nothing to do with social or racial stereotypes), where motor movements that have been learned become fixed into a certain sequence or pattern, but which is not necessarily the most efficient or effective. My learning theory instructor used the example of shaving strokes. He realized after some years that he always did his shaving strokes in the same way, after having learned how to do them, but that they weren't necessarily the best way to shave, anymore. Now that he'd been shaving for years, he \\"re-engineered\\" his shaving strokes so that they were more efficient.    This may apply to the martial arts too. After we've learned a certain movement and achieved a certain level of skill with it, we may become complacent and never go back and question the movement again, all because we believe we've achieved a level of \\"skill.\\" I notice Paul Vunak, an important martial artist in Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do and the Filipino martial arts, also emphasizes the learning of principles rather than \\"technique,\\" and specifically mentions this in his seminars. The idea is that once one has learned the principle behind the technique, one can do an infinite number of those techniques, depending on the situation.    Another interesting physiological principle that is almost as paradoxical as Musashi's ideas has been found by westernscience. There is a phenomenon in neuromuscular physiology known as reciprocal inhibition of flexor-extensor pairs. This means that during muscle activity the opposing muscle tension is inhibited to reduce effort on the flexing muscle. So if you're trying to do a straight punch, the tricep tenses and the bicep relaxes, thus reducing resistance. The paradoxical aspect arises from the fact that by performing a small jerk backwards in the opposite direction to the punch the outward extensor motion can be speeded up. In kinesiology they refer to this as a \\"pliometric jerk,\\" and is how basketball players jump higher. But it also has equal application to the martial arts, and I've had good results using this to get more speed and snap in my own techniques and for my students.    Anyway, I just thought I'd offer a few suggestions from my own experience on Musashi's book, although I can't say I fully understand it either. But I hope you find them helpful in some small way in your own understanding and training.    Overall, this is a well-written, detailed, and exhaustive book on the life and times and philosophy of the famous samurai and swordsman.	2004-09-16
551654:US	45193257	RY2618Q1ZMOSA	0937381357	787078518	Scotch Ale (Classic Beer Style Series)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Excellent book on this style	Scotch ale can be very different from English ale, and is typically higher gravity, lower alcohol, not as intensely hopped, has a sweeter finish, and a creamier head. There are exceptions, such as in the case of barley wine, which can be very high in alcohol and comparable to wine. Scottish beer and ale have some of the most delicate and unique flavors which don't occur in any other type of beer.<br /><br />I learned many interesting facts about not just Scottish ale but other beers as well. For example, the finings that are often added to ale as a preservative are a silicate substance that traditionally comes from the swim bladder of a certain fish. I wouldn't be surprised if there's a substitute for it now, but that's where it came from originally.<br /><br />There is a huge amount of other fascinating information in this very readable, well-written book about this style. The books in this series emphasize more the practical aspects of brewery operations, and this one is no different. But the author also delves into much of the history, and it was interesting to learn the differences between how brewers worked in the past compared to the modern operations, which permit much closer control of all the processes and ingredients, such as knowing more accurately the alpha acid content of the hops. But they were still able to do amazingly well with what they knew back then just from experience and good ol' Scottish cleverness and common sense. In fact, the book has two sections covering the history, one from 6500 B.C. to 1820, and the other from 1820 to 1891.<br /><br />In addition to the chapters on water, hopping and bittering, malt, yeast, and so on, the book also has a section detailing typical recipes and there is an appendix discussing the most important breweries along with descriptions of their ales. Finally, there are further appendices on weights and measures and a glossary of technical terms. This is a fine book on the subject of Scottish ale that should be of interest to new and experienced afficionados alike.experienced afficionados alike.	2004-08-18
554432:US	45193257	R11QSJA8NLVRBW	0937381187	688625807	Pale Ale (Classic Beer Style Series, 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very readable and informative book on this style	This is a brief but excellent book on pale ale. Having read George Fix's fairly technical Principles of Brewing Science, and Lee Janson's Brew Chem 101 book before this, which are heavily biochemisty oriented, focusing on topics like fermentation and non-enzymatic browning, I thought I'd try this book, which is devoted to the more practical aspects of brewery operations. It was recommended to me by someone I know who runs a very successful local microbrewery operation (who should know about something about ale) and it's a very readable, informative, and well written book with a lot of good information on this important style.<br /><br />Foster covers the history of the style and how pale ale developed over the years, including relatively recent developments like India pale ale and other substyles. There is a chapter just on the character and profile of a pale ale and what defines it in terms of ingredients, flavor, and aroma. For example, you learn the typical British malt is a two-row pale malt that is low in nitrogen, compared the American counterpart which is six-row, and has more starch-degrading enzymes, which is why so many extra non-malt adjuncts such as rice and corn can be added to the brew since these enzymes can process rice and corn starch also.<br /><br />Besides discussing the essential ingredients of the pale ale style such as hops, yeast, malt, and water, there is a good chapter on brewery equipment, such as the \\"beer engine\\" (which is just a hand pump), kegs, wooden casks, cask making, prepration, maintenance, and cleaning, taps, and so on. This being more of a practical volume, there are also sections on casking, cellaring, conditioning, and packaging. The book concludes with a nice chapter on classic pale ale recipes and descriptions, which discusses important examples of the style found in the U.S. and Britain. You'll likely find several examples of your favorite brews discussed here as well as others you may not be familiar with.<br /><br />On a side note, it was also fascinating to learn that some of the larger British breweries in the 19th century became so successful that their tubs could hold 200 to 300 people, and dinners were often held in them to inaugurate their use prior to being placed into operation. Also, there is a great photo of a guy on tall stilts walking around a hopyard, which is titled \\"Early springtime preparation of an English hopyard.\\" I don't know why they do this but you have to see the picture to appreciate it, since they're very tall stilts. :-)<br /><br />At just 134 pages, this is a brief but wonderfully informative and readable book on pale ale. Even if you're not a home-brewer, if you love pale ale you should read this book. You'll acquire a wealth of knowledge which will further enhance your appreciation of this important style of beer.o fascinating to learn that some of the larger British breweries in the 19th century became so successful that their tubs could hold 200 to 300 people, and dinners were often held in them to inaugurate their use prior to being placed into operation. Also, there is a great photo of a guy on tall stilts walking around a hopyard, which is titled \\"Early springtime preparation of an English hopyard.\\" I don't know why they do this but you have to see the picture to appreciate it, since they're very tall stilts. :-)    At just 134 pages, this is a brief but wonderfully informative and readable book on pale ale. Even if you're not a home-brewer, if you love pale ale you should read this book. You'll acquire a wealth of knowledge which will further enhance your appreciation of this important style of beer.	2004-08-16
557724:US	45193257	R1S5ENHCYJ73L2	0762730447	87782202	The Geocaching Handbook (Falcon Guide)	Books	5	37	48	N	N	Good intro to this fascinating new sport	I'd never heard of geocaching before so when I saw this interesting title I had to find out what it was about.<br /><br />The idea is simple and sounds like a lot of fun, though, because basically, it's a game where people leave secret stashes of goodies hidden in places all over the world that you use your GPS system to find. The stashes typically contain things like CDs, DVDs, books, non-perishable food items, maps, inexpensive gifts and trinkets, and so on. Enthusiasts sometimes follow a trail of clues like an old treasure hunt to find the cache, in addition to using their GPS system. They can be buried in the ground in remote wilderness areas or left under a park bench in a city. There are caches in every U.S. state and many countries around the world, from England to Estonia. The book gives the GPS coordinates of each cache.<br /><br />Since the game was invented a few years ago, it has rapidly evolved and many new variations have been invented, including geodashing, garmin games, geoteaming, hide and seek, just 4 openers, letterboxing, microcaching, minute war, multicaches, orienteering, poker run, project ape, tag, virtual caches, webcam caches, volksmarching, story cache, and something called the \\"stampin' fools game.\\"<br /><br />The book covers GPS basics as well as the history of the technology, and the chapters include GPS units, Creating Caches, Geo Games (which I just listed the names of above), Backcountry Safety and Etiquette, Geo Happenings, Clubs and Websites, and Cachinary 1.0.<br /><br />The book has a forward by Dave Ulmer, the inventer of the sport, including the dramatic story of his snowmobile crash on Mt. St. Helens back in the days when the civilian GPS system accuracy was only 1/10 of what it is now--which was the reason for his crash. Because of that positioning error, he'd gotten into the chute right next to the one he was supposed to be in, which led to his crash.<br /><br />Overall, this is an interesting, entertaining, and detailed introduction to the sport of geocaching that should be of interest to beginning and seasoned geocachers alike.tailed introduction to the sport of geocaching that should be of interest to beginning and seasoned geocachers alike.	2004-08-13
601199:US	45193257	R1Y3FILZGB2PQG	0713634030	295563634	Jiu Jitsu : The Official World Jiu Jitsu Federation Training Manual (White to Green Belt)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent training manual	My first book on jiu-jitsu was over 40 years ago with the great E.J. Harrison's classic book on the subject in an early 60s or late 50s edition. Jiu-jitsu books have come a long way since Harrison's time, and sensei Clark follows in that great tradition with this very well-written and beautifully illustrated and photographed instructional book on this phase of the curriculum. Very clear photos illustrate the techniques, accompanied by clear and concise descriptions in the text.<br />One of my main interests is hold and lock reversals and counters, and I was pleased to see seven of them included in this syllabus, four for armlocks and three for choke holds. I tend to come at this from the Chin Na end of the spectrum but I have great respect for the jiu-jitsu aspects of it as well, and they should be taught more often than they are.<br />One other thing that is different from many jiu-jitsu and judo books of the past is the emphasis on classical karate kicks, punches, and strikes. Sensei Clark must have some training there, over and above the usual atemi-waza training since he has quite nice classical technique, being a karate instructor myself. No doubt the pervasive influence of karate and TKD have had some effect over the years on jiu-jitsu training as well.<br />Students of the art, especially those in the WJJF, should find this a useful companion to their training with many helpful tips and info on all the white belt to green belt techniques.	2004-07-06
601534:US	45193257	R1APCF48SBN7TA	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A few miscellaneous comments	I just had a few comments on this unusual novel. Since other people have commented better than I on the story, I thought I'd say a little more about the main character and his condition.<br />This book reminded me of the recent movie &quot;Momento,&quot; where the protagonist has a severe memory deficit and sets out to solve the mystery of his wife's murder despite his impairment. This condition, known as anterograde amnesia, is rarer than the famous retrograde amnesia many people are familiar with from other films and novels, where the sufferer can't recall anything about his or her past. This condition was memorably portrayed in the 1965 Gregory Peck and Ingrid Bergmann movie, &quot;Mirage,&quot; and in Alfred Hitchcock's movie, &quot;Psycho.&quot; In this story, the main character has other impairments that impede his ability to cope but he must solve the mystery despite them.<br />In this story, Christopher Boone has Asperger's syndrome or a similar condition, and has trouble with anything involving social intelligence and interpersonal relations, although he's very intelligent in other ways and is gifted at math and logic. It is this ability that allows him to survive despite his other problems and to navigate the otherwise alien world of normal human relations and its complexities and strange pitfalls and problems, by focusing on his analytical strengths and avoiding his weaknesses.<br />Many years ago, I studied behavioral and neurological syndromes like this as a young neurogiologist in grad school, when it was thought that autistic and socially impaired children like Christopher behaved as they did because of various psychological problems such as the late Gregory Bateson's double-bind theory, which were often inappropriately blamed on the long-suffering parents. Now it's thought that autistic, Asperger's, and other similar children have neurological or developmental deficits resulting from the lack of communication between the parts of the brain involved in social intelligence and the other areas of the brain. One way this is thought to occur is through the demyelination of the corpus callosum, the main fiber bundle connecting the right and left hemispheres, or through the innapropriate pruning of white matter (the connecting fiber pathways) between the different areas of the brain, thus impairing overall communication and integration. Another possibility is that they have deficits in the areas relating to social intelligence themselves, which are located mainly in the temporal lobes. But the main point is that advances in neurology and neurobiology more and more support the theory that these syndromes are largely the result of biology than psychological and social factors and influences.<br />Well, I hope you didn't mind my little foray into some of the neurobiological science. As Christopher assumes the role of detective and goes about solving the crime (he is an admirer of Sherlock Holmes) and plumbs the mystery of the dog's murder, we get a glimpse of the world through his eyes, and we see how different, confusing, and frightening the world might be if we ourselves lacked the social abilities that most of us take for granted. Haddon has extensive experience working with these children, and he puts that knowledge to good use in this unique book, achieving a little fictional tour de force here by building an entire novel around such an unlikely protagonist.in social intelligence and the other areas of the brain. One way this is thought to occur is through the demyelination of the corpus callosum, the main fiber bundle connecting the right and left hemispheres, or through the innapropriate pruning of white matter (the connecting fiber pathways) between the different areas of the brain, thus impairing overall communication and integration. Another possibility is that they have deficits in the areas relating to social intelligence themselves, which are located mainly in the temporal lobes. But the main point is that advances in neurology and neurobiology more and more support the theory that these syndromes are largely the result of biology than psychological and social factors and influences.<br />Well, I hope you didn't mind my little foray into some of the neurobiological science. As Christopher assumes the role of detective and goes about solving the crime (he is an admirer of Sherlock Holmes) and plumbs the mystery of the dog's murder, we get a glimpse of the world through his eyes, and we see how different, confusing, and frightening the world might be if we ourselves lacked the social abilities that most of us take for granted. Haddon has extensive experience working with these children, and he puts that knowledge to good use in this unique book, achieving a little fictional tour de force here by building an entire novel around such an unlikely protagonist.	2004-07-06
603218:US	45193257	R1WMGWQEODMKWO	1886969663	327415436	Chin Na in Ground Fighting: Principles, Theory and Submission Holds for All Martial Styles	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb book on the art of Chin Na	This is a very comprehensive, detailed, and well-written book on chin na with an emphasis on ground fighting. I teach karate and chin na myself, and I like to integrate the two arts for my students just as sensei Arsenault and Faulise do in their training and work because of its practical usefulness in control situations, where karate, TKD, kung-fu, or a percussion art might be inappropriate.<br />There are separate chapters covering nerve centers and pressure points, how to attack the pressure points, chin na theory and technique, as well as separate chapters on hand and armlocks; neck, head, and shoulder locks; and ankle and leglocks.<br />One of the book's major strengths is the chapter on the theory of leverage and mechanical advantage as applied to holds and locks. The authors use diagrams and illustrations to show how chin na locks can be analyzed according to the different types of mechanical levers and fulcrums. This was interesting and useful since, once you understand a few basic principles (which aren't that difficult, really), any chin na lock can be analyzed and understood with reference to it's particular category of mechanical lever.<br />Another thing I liked about the book is the authors' discussion of safety in practicing choke holds and of the dangers of applying them in self-defense situations. For example, after applying a sleeper hold and rendering the attacker unconscious, sometimes the heart fails to start back up after 30 seconds, and artificial resucitation must be administered--unless it's your attention to kill the attacker. This is because of a carotid baroreceptor and heart pacemaker effect known as carotid-sinus syndrome. It's very rare but it does happen. The authors also discuss a number of other medical and physiological effects of sleeper and choke holds and how to deal with them, which every martial artist who practices them should know about.<br />The book concludes with a chapter on sequence of techniques which shows how techniques might progress and flow in a real situation, starting in a standing position and ending up on the ground. There are also two extensive appendices totalling 40 pages (in smaller print than was used in the text) on martial arts terms and medical terminology.<br />My only complaint about the book is that the photos look a little light and faded. I don't know if this occurred during the shooting or printing, but it's not that big a problem. Overall, this is one of the best books on chin na I've ever seen and its application to ground fighting. A lot of work went into preparing and writing this volume, and it shows. This book will be a valuable resource for any chin na practitioner who wants a better grasp of the underlying principles and techniques of this important and useful martial art.ques might progress and flow in a real situation, starting in a standing position and ending up on the ground. There are also two extensive appendices totalling 40 pages (in smaller print than was used in the text) on martial arts terms and medical terminology.<br />My only complaint about the book is that the photos look a little light and faded. I don't know if this occurred during the shooting or printing, but it's not that big a problem. Overall, this is one of the best books on chin na I've ever seen and its application to ground fighting. A lot of work went into preparing and writing this volume, and it shows. This book will be a valuable resource for any chin na practitioner who wants a better grasp of the underlying principles and techniques of this important and useful martial art.	2004-07-05
617245:US	45193257	R17YZTS5EA0ML	0813339189	590768788	Extinct Humans	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great book on subject plus recent finds	This is the most beautifully illustrated of the four books on paleontology I've read recently. The full-color plates really allow you to connect the comparative anatomy  discussed in the text with the visible features. Tattersall and Schwartz write well and the text never gets dry or technical. Richard Klein's The Dawn of Human Culture is excellent also and has very clear explanations of high-tech dating methods such as radioisotope dating, thermoluminesence, ESR or electron spin resonance dating, and magnetic-field dating, and he's careful to discuss their strengths and weaknesses, and the technical difficulties and limitations involved in using them.<br />A major strength of the book is discussing the changes in paleontologists' approach to the taxonomy. An example of a major change is Homo habilis, thought to be the first true tool-using homonid. Consider what happened with one of the so-called \\"type fossils.\\" Type fossils are the ones that the original definition of the species came from. The problem concerned the type fossils of Homo rudolphensis, known as ER 1470, which were quite famous. H. rudolphensis was an important hominid find with a larger cranial capacity than homo habilis, and was considered a more evolved, later species. It's mostly known from an upper jaw and palate and portion of skull. However, it was discovered that the upper jaw mates almost exactly with OH 64, an Australopithecine lower jaw from Olduvai Gorge (OH means Olduvai Homonid). If this is true, Homo rudolphensis disappears as a species and OH 64 no longer belongs in Australopithecus. As the authors point out, that was especially ironic since ER 1470, although it's still currently assigned to H. rudolphensis, was originally put in H. habilis and was the find which finally convinced scientists that there was something to define the species after all, despite the chaos that had reigned up to that time.<br />Their difficulties didn't stop there. Because of the enormous influence of evolutionary biologist Ernst Mayr and the population geneticist Theodosius Dobzhansky, whose ideas caused paleoanthropologists to think in terms of a single, evolving homonid line from Australopithecus to Homo erectus to Neanderthal to Homo sapiens, paleontologists were for many years reluctant to create new species for their finds, despite the obvious difficulty of fitting so many anatomically distinct fossils into a single species of Homo habilis. As a result, H. habilis became a virtual dumping group for various fossil finds, and only in the last decade were all the different finds reconsidered.<br />The authors include superb discussions of the fossil and cultural (tool-making) evidence for Homo heidelbergensis and Homo antecessor, considered to be the last common ancestor of the homonid line which led to H. sapiens and Neanderthal. H. heidelbergensis, they point out, also has become a convenient dumping ground for a number of fossils 300,000 to 600,000 years old which have a cranial capacity of around 1200 cc, very close to modern norms. It had robust limbs but more or less modern bodily proportions.<br />H. antecessor is associated with fossils as old as 789,000 years. It's associated with not so much stone tool-making, which remained relatively primitive, but with evidence at two different sites in Europe of advances for home construction. One site shows a large home constructed of planted saplings drawn together at the top, and the other shows clear evidence of a dwelling with a permanent hearth. Hence, H. antecessor is thought to have domesticated fire.<br />Finally, there's an introductory chapter discussing the early history of comparative fossil anatomy, including the important work of Blumenbach, who founded the science and improved on many of Linnaeus's ideas, especially the definition of the genus Homo, and our own species, Homo sapiens.ionary biologist Ernst Mayr and the population geneticist Theodosius Dobzhansky, whose ideas caused paleoanthropologists to think in terms of a single, evolving homonid line from Australopithecus to Homo erectus to Neanderthal to Homo sapiens, paleontologists were for many years reluctant to create new species for their finds, despite the obvious difficulty of fitting so many anatomically distinct fossils into a single species of Homo habilis. As a result, H. habilis became a virtual dumping group for various fossil finds, and only in the last decade were all the different finds reconsidered.<br />The authors include superb discussions of the fossil and cultural (tool-making) evidence for Homo heidelbergensis and Homo antecessor, considered to be the last common ancestor of the homonid line which led to H. sapiens and Neanderthal. H. heidelbergensis, they point out, also has become a convenient dumping ground for a number of fossils 300,000 to 600,000 years old which have a cranial capacity of around 1200 cc, very close to modern norms. It had robust limbs but more or less modern bodily proportions.<br />H. antecessor is associated with fossils as old as 789,000 years. It's associated with not so much stone tool-making, which remained relatively primitive, but with evidence at two different sites in Europe of advances for home construction. One site shows a large home constructed of planted saplings drawn together at the top, and the other shows clear evidence of a dwelling with a permanent hearth. Hence, H. antecessor is thought to have domesticated fire.<br />Finally, there's an introductory chapter discussing the early history of comparative fossil anatomy, including the important work of Blumenbach, who founded the science and improved on many of Linnaeus's ideas, especially the definition of the genus Homo, and our own species, Homo sapiens.	2004-06-24
618995:US	45193257	R2KQZVODQ2EC52	0439424690	788289949	The Day My Butt Went Psycho (Andy Griffiths' Butt)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Sure to become a butt classic	This book from Australian author Andy Griffiths (of Zombie Butts from Uranus fame) just goes to show you how far things have come in the young reader genre since I was a kid 40 years ago. Back then it was more like Tom Swift, the Hardy Boys, Dr. Suess, and Dr. Doolittle. But there wasn't anything as raucous and outrageous as this funny, farcical story about wayward butts and their butt-shenanigans from Griffiths.<br />The story follows 12-year old Zack, who discovers one night his butt can detach itself and go wandering around the town at night on its stumpy little legs, hanging out with other wayward butts and getting into trouble such as mooning passersby and causing accidents, and perpetrating other butt pranks. Zack has to bring back his butt before it gets into more trouble and the judge throws his butt in the slammer. This is only the tip of the iceberg, however, and Zack soon discovers that there is a widespread butt conspiracy that threatens the peace and tranquility of the entire town and that must be stopped no matter what the cost.<br />Griffiths never misses an opportunity to use every bit of butt wordplay or gag he can throw in, which is a big part of the book's fun and humor. For example, you'll meet cluster butts, kamikaze butts, stinkants, buttcatchers, and even the fearsome Stenchgantor, \\"the Great Unwiped Butt,\\" who lives in the Brown Forest--which used to be the Great Black Forest before he arrived and polluted it with his--shall we say, gaseous and foul emissions. A great world-wide army of feral butts is forming, \\"the greatest buttcano in the history of the world.\\" Zack joins the butt-bashing and butt-busting B-Team (Butt Team) that includes the Kicker, the Kisser, and the Smacker, who all \\"...love the smell of freshly smacked butt in the morning.\\" Zack is armed with a fearsome butt-busting weapon, the 4502-LL (\\"Laxative Launcher\\"). As if that weren't enough, there are also Butt-piranhas, poopoises, and Butt-sirens, and the Great White Butt, who has never been defeated.<br />That's just a few of the butt-based ideas and gags. A bit of a low-brow mindset and wit will help you to get the maximum laughs out this book of bawdy butt badinage and butt hijinks--as long as you don't turn into a real buttinsky yourself.* :-)<br />*Sorry, I couldn't resist. \\"Badinage\\" means light, playful banter.has never been defeated.<br />That's just a few of the butt-based ideas and gags. A bit of a low-brow mindset and wit will help you to get the maximum laughs out this book of bawdy butt badinage and butt hijinks--as long as you don't turn into a real buttinsky yourself.* :-)<br />*Sorry, I couldn't resist. \\"Badinage\\" means light, playful banter.	2004-06-23
620010:US	45193257	R1ULOZA0JRC0NI	189495906X	984578331	1: Columbia Accident Investigation Report: Apogee Books Space Series 39	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Comprehensive, readable, and nicely illustrated	Although not cheap, this book offers a lot of value for the price. The bonus CD which includes many extra NASA documents as well as over 100 MB of video is also worth much of the purchase price.<br />The book is divided into two main parts. The first part discusses the technical investigation and the engineering analysis which determined the exact cause of failure. This was traced to a piece of insulating foam striking the right leading wing edge during the ascent, damaging the heat-resistant tiles and leading to a fatal thermal failure during reentry. In addition to the more narrow focus of finding the cause of the wing failure, you'll learn a lot of other interesting details about many other aspects of the shuttle design and engineering.<br />It's interesting to follow the chain of discovery and logic that led up to this conclusion about the wing failure, but the kicker was a sensor in the right wing that read a very high temperature before suddenly dropping to a suspiciously low one. This led investigators to conclude that the low temperature simply meant that the sensor had been destroyed by high heat moments before the Shuttle broke apart, but this interpretation wasn't arrived at until after the investigation. Even if they'd known at the time, there wasn't much that could have been done about it.<br />The book is surprisingly well illustrated with many color graphics, illustrations, and photos. The thermal diagrams showing the temperature variations in various colors are almost works of art by themselves. Although there's some technical jargon in the first part, overall, the book isn't difficult to read with a little perseverance, even if you're not technically inclined or an engineer yourself.<br />The last half of the book discusses the organizational aspects and political environment of NASA on which the shuttle disaster is ultimately blamed. The book details the numerous missed opportunities, procedural failures, and beaurocratic screw-ups that let up to the final disaster. There's some good history here about NASA and about some of the leading scientists and engineers and managers who were involved with the agency during these years, which makes interesting reading just by itself.<br />Last but not least, the book is printed on very high quality, glossy paper which makes the colorful illustrations even more attractive. Far from being just another government study of another failed beaurocracy, this book should be read by any manager in big business, semi-governmental agency, or government department or agency for the valuable lessons that were learned.he final disaster. There's some good history here about NASA and about some of the leading scientists and engineers and managers who were involved with the agency during these years, which makes interesting reading just by itself.<br />Last but not least, the book is printed on very high quality, glossy paper which makes the colorful illustrations even more attractive. Far from being just another government study of another failed beaurocracy, this book should be read by any manager in big business, semi-governmental agency, or government department or agency for the valuable lessons that were learned.	2004-06-22
622753:US	45193257	R2XO8VFXV0HHWC	1402700822	313194751	A Short Account of the History of Mathematics (Indigo)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Classic history	This is a classic history of mathematics and is surprisingly readable considering it was first published in 1912. It covers math from ancient times up to the late 19th century.  It was interesting to read about how math developed down through the centuries, and who the famous mathematicians were and their contributions. I was most in interested in developments since the Renaissance, but I also enjoyed the author's coverage of the Middle Ages and Arabic contributions to algebra. For example, you'll learn about Al-Khwarizmi, Abu-Kamil, and Al Karaji. In the Middle Ages there was Leonardo Fibonacci of Pisa (who gave his name to the famous fibonacci series), who lived in the 13th century (not to be confused with da Vinci who lived later), and was so renowned for his abilities that a competition was once staged by the Holy Roman Emperor to demonstrate his prowess. In fact, these sorts of math contests were quite common in the Middle Ages, which I didn't know about. Three questions were posed, such as give a number that when increased or decreased by 5 remains a square, and Leonardo was the only contestant to get all three right. Leonardo also was one of the first to introduce the Hindu/Arabic number system into Europe. He wrote a number of books, of which several survive today, which made him a celebrity as much for his writing talents as for his mathematical abilities during his lifetime, and the true extent of his contributions wasn't recognized until recent times. He is considered the most important mathematical theorist after Diophantus of Alexandria until Fermat in the 17th century--a span of 2000 years. But he is only one of hundreds of important mathematicians whose contributions are discussed. This book is still a very readable classic history that is still a valuable resource on the subject almost 100 years later.	2004-06-20
625212:US	45193257	R1IDSKPL8I88F0	1585740608	933117225	The SAS Self-Defense Handbook: A Complete Guide to Unarmed Combat Techniques	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Good practical introduction	I really enjoyed this book, partly for nostalgic reasons. The line drawings and illustrations showing the self-defense techniques reminded me of an earlier generation of martial arts books back in the 50s and 60s and before, such as Kyose Nakae's Police Jiu-jutsu, the Ratti brothers Aikido and the Dynamic Sphere, Donald Hepler's Self-Defense, Simplified in Pictures, the infamous Ketsugo book ubiquitously advertised in the back of comic books in the 60s, and others.<br /><br />If you're an experienced martial artist you will probably already be familiar with many of these techniques, but if you're a beginner and looking for a good introduction to the field, this is a good place to start.<br /><br />Before I get into my own comments, I note the extremely negative review by one writer who says the book was a complete waste of money and the author mistakenly assumes these techniques will work against larger, stronger, hopped up, homicidal, or psychotic opponents. That's probably true, but that is not a valid criticism. As a self-defense instructor for 35 years myself who's trained in a number of styles and methods, there is no system I've encountered that is guaranteed to enable you to prevail under any and all circumstances and conditions. If they do make these exaggerated claims then they're probably selling you snake oil.<br /><br />I've also read the Perkins book the reviewer says is far better and am quite familiar with Fairbairn's book and methods, and although these are also fine books and I would recommend you get these also, they don't resolve these issues entirely either although they admittedly have their advantages also--the Fairbairn methods are more vicious, but if you just add the groin rips and strikes, eye gouges, strikes to the throat and temple, and clapping the hands over the ears to break the eardrums (a technique which Fairbairn favored) to these techniques--you'll basically have the best of both worlds. But, contrary to what the other reviewer says, you'd better have a serious self-defense situation if you end up injuring or maiming someone for life or killing the attacker using those techniques--especially if there are witnesses.<br /><br />Of course, there are many legal complexities and sides to this issue that I can't possibly go into here, but if you're a 100-pound girl or old lady and you cripple some 250-pound guy for life who attacked you, well, even if you get prosecuted by the district attorney, the jury is likely to go easy on you, and you may get off. But if you're a young, 200+ pound, athletic-looking guy with a dubious or disreputable past and you cause serious harm or injury, or worse, well, you can expect to do some jail time. For some reason, the law frowns on the excessive use of force and violence in self-defense even if the two parties involved are admitted scumbags. :-)<br /><br />But getting back to the issue of survivability against adverse odds, the most that can be said is that a good self-defense course will increase your chances of survival and give you options that you didn't have before. The way I explain it to my students is that in a low-risk or low-level threat or attack situation you should be able to defend yourself fairly well; in a medium-level threat or attack situation you'll hopefully be able to fight the attacker to a draw and at least avoid serious injury, whereas before you might be completely helpless; and in a serious life-and-death situation with a determined opponent who may be bigger and stronger and better skilled or equipped, or have other advantages, you'll at least have a fighting chance whereas before it would have meant passive acceptance of death or serious injury. Remember, your goal in a potentially lethal street encounter is not necessarily to win, which might require more risky techniques and methods, but to avoid losing and escape with your life.<br /><br />The self-defense techniques shown are simple but effective, and can be learned by most peoplewith a minimum of training. Effective training for self-defense need not be technically difficult or long and arduous in terms of the training, but it does mean that techniques must be kept simple and complex and flashy techniques must be avoided. The self-defense techniques come from many disciplines, including karate, boxing, judo, jiu-jutsu, wrestling, and even tai chi. There's also some good info on nerve centers and pressure points.<br /><br />But perhaps the most valuable parts of the book are the chapters not on the physical techniques themselves, but on the mental and psychological and other aspects of self-defense. There are separate chapters on What is Self-Defense?, Positive Thinking, and Spotting Trouble. These chapters discuss many other useful and valuable topics, such as self-defense and the law, preventive measures, practicing assertiveness, streetcraft and being streetwise, avoiding many types of risky urban environments and dangers, calming down a confrontation, the eyes and character, the will to win, gangs and drunks, travelling on public transportation, distraction techniques, the effect of alcohol, the elements of surprise, and many others.<br /><br />I note the author was also the chief SAS instructor for several years in survival tactics. All in all a very well written, thoughtful, practical and well-illustrated book on self-defense and close-quarters combat as taught to the feared and respected SAS commandos.for self-defense need not be technically difficult or long and arduous in terms of the training, but it does mean that techniques must be kept simple and complex and flashy techniques must be avoided. The self-defense techniques come from many disciplines, including karate, boxing, judo, jiu-jutsu, wrestling, and even tai chi. There's also some good info on nerve centers and pressure points.    But perhaps the most valuable parts of the book are the chapters not on the physical techniques themselves, but on the mental and psychological and other aspects of self-defense. There are separate chapters on What is Self-Defense?, Positive Thinking, and Spotting Trouble. These chapters discuss many other useful and valuable topics, such as self-defense and the law, preventive measures, practicing assertiveness, streetcraft and being streetwise, avoiding many types of risky urban environments and dangers, calming down a confrontation, the eyes and character, the will to win, gangs and drunks, travelling on public transportation, distraction techniques, the effect of alcohol, the elements of surprise, and many others.    I note the author was also the chief SAS instructor for several years in survival tactics. All in all a very well written, thoughtful, practical and well-illustrated book on self-defense and close-quarters combat as taught to the feared and respected SAS commandos.	2004-06-17
626608:US	45193257	R3VQVLAWCTPDJT	1881943143	618726074	SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for Erotic Servitude--Principles, Skills and Tools	Books	4	3	41	N	N	An eye opener (and then some)	This book is sure to spice up any couple's flagging sex life. I was going to give it to my significant other to read, but my pet gerbil got jealous and I had to return it to our local junior high school's sex-education library. Have you ever noticed that if you eliminate the x, e, and a from \\"sex education\\" that it becomes \\"seduction?\\" All I can say is that things have changed since I took sex education in school 35 years ago.	2004-06-16
626781:US	45193257	R1CJ0D9KNXF46D	1853175099	315297319	Imaging of the Scrotum & Penis	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A picture is worth a thousand words	I didn't know there was so much to learn about imaging the male genitalia. All I can say is that, from the photos in this book, they must have had to use a wide-angle lens for some of them. No wonder MRI scans cost so much. They could have titled the book, &quot;Imagining the Male Genitalia,&quot; instead.	2004-06-16
627261:US	45193257	R38TZGQOYAEE1K	0525245499	602526684	Gun Dog: Revolutionary Rapid Training Method	Books	5	0	27	N	N	Use only as advised	This book should have been read by the two guys who were out fishing and managed to lose both a new SUV and hunting dog. According to the story, they were ice-fishing on some northern lake, and they'd brought a couple of sticks of dynamite to blow a hole in the ice.<br />Unfortunately, when they lit and threw the stick of dynamite, their retriever decided to fetch it and started to bring it back to them. Since they couldn't run as fast as the dog on the slippery ice, at that point they decided that discretion was the bitter part of valor, and started shooting at the dog hoping to stop him from returning with the stick of dynamite.<br />Unfortunately they both missed, and at that point the dog, who wasn't a complete idiot and knew when he wasn't wanted, decided to take shelter under the new SUV, which was parked nearby on the ice. Before they could shoo him out from under the vehicle, the dynamite stick exploded, blowing a big hole in the ice, into which the new SUV fell and sank, never to be seen again, along with the presumed remains of their overly enthusiastic but somewhat misguided hunting dog.<br />Well, I hope their next dog worked out better, and for those with less traumatic gun-dog experiences who are still undaunted by the call of the wild, this book should be a valuable training guide.	2004-06-16
627682:US	45193257	R31QX5QKP2NE44	2267011565	664181160	Histoire de la merde	Books	4	0	3	N	N	A weird title and possibly even weirder book	The title of this book translates from the French as &quot;The History of Sh_t.&quot; Leave it to the French to write a history on something like this. I suppose if Jean-Paul Sartre can write a famous book entitled &quot;Nausea,&quot; then another one can do &quot;Sh_t.&quot; This may not be the ultimate subject of the book but if I could find it in translation I would at least be able to see what the actual subject is about.<br />Of course, apropos of the title, this could be a book by an eminent historian about the history of French politics.<br />Or it could be a history on American popular culture, which would also fit the title. :-)<br />I've been trying to find the book to find out exactly what it's about, but it doesn't seem to be available. If you've read it or know about it, drop me a line and let me know sometime through the Amazon Reviewer Area Friends &amp; Favorites feature.	2004-06-16
634287:US	45193257	R1450N2PTBLKZS	1556523750	591073256	Backyard Ballistics: Build Potato Cannons, Paper Match Rockets, Cincinnati Fire Kites, Tennis Ball Mortars, and More Dynamite Devices	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Interesting and great fun	This is one of those ultimate guy books, fun for boys 8 to 80. It brought back memories of building similar devices in my youth, although I never built anything close to the diverse collection the author has brought together and describes in this interesting book. The book contains instructions and even troubleshooting suggestions for 12 different projects, ranging from a potato canon to Greek fire to the dry-cleaner bag balloon. I remember using a compound called Bangsite 40 years ago when I was a boy that was probably calcium carbide to build a primitive canon, and he was a similar one here.<br />In addition to all the projects, the author does a fine job of providing a little education on the fine points of the history of many of these devices, and on some of the most important inventors in history. There are briref but very readable articles on Archimedes, Robert H. Goddard (the &quot;father of rocketry&quot;), Alfred Nobel, and others.<br />A particularly interesting section is the one on the history of the catapult. The author details its use from 400 B.C. to the 15th century. For example, we learn that last successful use of the catapult (before it was replaced by canon) was at the Battle of Rhodes in 1480, and that 500 A.D. is the earliest recorded use of gravity-powered catapults or trebouchets in the Middle East. In 1191 Richard I (the &quot;Lion-Hearted&quot;) participated in a hard-fought battle between the Franks and the Turks in which they battered each other with 300 catapults. And torsion engines were in widespread use in the Roman army by 50 A.D. In 1450, the canon supplanted the catapult throughout Europe and its long use in warfare came to an end.<br />There are also interesting articles on The Roman Candle, the Medieval Crossbow, and Secret Weapons (such as missiles and rockets). At 170 pages in medium-size format, there are a lot of interesting historical facts and information in addition to all the material on the projects. This is a great idea for a book and I'm surprised no-one has ever done it before.dea for a book and I'm surprised no-one has ever done it before.	2004-06-10
651463:US	45193257	R1NXDSM9USTO96	0060520450	114034069	The Stingray Shuffle (Serge Storms)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Another funny book from Dorsey	More terminally wacky zaniness from Dorsey. Like Hiaasen during his early years (and beyond), Dorsey just seems to get better with each passing book. Dorsey is a lot like Hiaasen, only with a significantly more violent twist. People are always getting bumped off, often in very creative ways. Since most of the characters seem to be criminals or other socially undesirable types who are always scamming or otherwise preying on each other (there being no honor among thieves), the body count at the end of his books is probably the highest of any of the authors in the genre. :-)<br />This book might be Dorsey's best yet, and it's at least as good as Triggerfish Twist. Serge and Coleman, Dorsey's two signature and perversely funny characters, are also in this book, so fans of the irrespressible and ethically addled duo won't be disappointed there. In fact, Serge give perhaps his most inspired monolog yet on some arcane Florida history in a courtroom after being brought up on charges of vandalism. The book is replete with other wacky plot elements, ranging from the missing satchel of five million dollars from a previous novel to immigrant crime cartel expatriates trying to buy a Russian nuclear submarine on the black market. Overall it's another fun-filled and wickedly funny romp from Dorsey.	2004-05-28
651745:US	45193257	R8ED60T8A9G1W	0760313369	243693970	Great Ship Disasters	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Fascinating book on maritime disasters	I was a newcomer to the genre of nautical writing when I recently discovered this book by the Bonners, a respected husband and wife team in the field. After reading it, I can't imagine a more interesting introduction to the field. Prior to this my only knowlege of the area was when, about a year ago, I got on a website devoted to tracking current maritime accidents and disasters, and also piracy. It turns out piracy is on the increase, mostly off the coast of Pakistan and in Indonesia, but most are poorly armed, often with only knives or old, often not very serviceable guns. In one incident, an oil tanker turned away pirates trying to board her by turning the high-pressure fire hoses on them. (One almost feels sorry for the pirates).<br />But getting back to the present book, the book is divided into six chapters: Passengers, Cargo, and Other Vessel Disasters; Collisions, Fires and Explosions; Groundings, Founderings, and Capsizings; Unplanned and Mysterious Occurrences; and Improving Saftety at Sea for Mariners, Ports, and Vessels.<br />The book recounts dozens of famous and no- so-famous disasters. No book on sea disasters would be complete, of course, without discussing the sinking of the Titanic, and so there's a section devoted to that, which includes recently discovered facts and research. For example, it was learned that one factor contributing to the rapid sinking of the great ship was a large section of weakened hull with popped rivets, bulging plating, and eroded caulking that was hard to access and repair. Also, the captain and the senior officers were new to the new engines, being more familiar with triple-exapansion type engines, and they also didn't know the main center engine had no reverse gear, only forward and stop. It's thought that if they simply tried to make a hard turn rather than stop, the Titanic would have only grazed the iceberg and added many hours of life to the ship, during which many more of the passengers and crew could have been saved.<br />Another fascinating fact about the Titanic disaster concerns the story written in 1898 by Morgan Robertson, 14 years before the Titanic sailed. The novel recounted the fictional story of the SS. Titan, the largest and fastest ship of its day, which sank after striking an iceberg. The dimensions, total tonnage, and top speed of the fictional ship were strikingly similar to the ill-fated Titanic. Not only that, but it carried the minimum number of lifeboats allowed by the British Board of Trade, the same as the Titanic. Because of all the amazing coincidences, Robertson was regarded as a genuine psychic by many during his time, although he quite commendably insisted on being considered only a maritime fiction author.<br />In addition to the Titanic, many other stories are told, including that of the S.S. Zam Zam, the S.S. Olympic (the equally ill-fated sister ship to the Titanic, the same size, and sunk by a mine only weaks after it was converted to a hospital ship at the beginning of WWI), the Soviet submarine Kursk, the Yarmouth Castle, and the S.S. L'Atlantique. In fact, there's a section devoted to just Soviet nuclear sub disasters since there were so many of them.<br />In the years leading up the final breakup of the USSR, there were seven November class boats that were seriously damaged with substantial loss of life, such as the infamous K-19, whose story has been retold in the recent Harrison Ford movie.  There have been no less than 40 serious incidents involving collisions between Soviet and American ships, resulting in five Soviet subs sunk with loss of life estimated at 625 dead. Of particular interest was the sinking of one of the new class of titanium hulled subs capable of diving to more than 3000 feet. This was the Mike-class sub Konsomolets, which sunk after a fire in the Norwegian sea when it was returning to port.<br />The book contains many photos including shots of the Titanic before it was launched, and another showing it riding very highin the water, not having been fully fitted out yet. The book is printed on high-quality, glossy paper which makes the photos more attractive. This is a well-written, beautifully illustrated book on the fascinating subject of disasters on the high seas.h in the water, not having been fully fitted out yet. The book is printed on high-quality, glossy paper which makes the photos more attractive. This is a well-written, beautifully illustrated book on the fascinating subject of disasters on the high seas.	2004-05-28
658119:US	45193257	R3JDK2SKQ5Y22B	0099196816	522619283	The "Beatles": The Only Authorized Biography	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Great bio of the legendary band	This is the only biography authorized by the Beatles themselves, and it gives a detailed account of the rise to fame of the Fab Four, and many details of each band member's life. Davies was asked by Harrison not to print certain details, and an aunt suggested he revise some of the account of John's early life to make it sound better. Some details couldn't be divulged at the time, such as Brian Epstein's gay orientation, and the extent to which John was into drugs, although you get a sense of this from some brief passages in the book although Davies obviously avoids dwelling for too long on these issues. Still, despite glossing over a few negatives like these, Davies nevertheless had access to information that no other writer had, and no doubt the book benefits from that despite its being slightly sanitized.<br />One thing that distinguises this book from all the other bios is Davies spent a year living and travelling with the Beatles and observing them in their day-to-day lives. The year was 1967, and although the group was soon to break-up, 1967 was still a great year for the band and Davies gives many fine insights and details into the life of the group during this period. Davies enlivens the account with anecdotes and stories from many relatives and friends who knew the Beatles best.<br />I want to take a brief detour here to tell you about a funny piece of Beatles trivia I discovered recently, and I just have to mention it here, since I don't recall seeing it in the book. Supposedly The Beatles loved cartoons, and a friend of mine who is a big Beatles fan and trivia buff and I got to talking about it, and since I'm sort of a trivia nut myself, he suggested an unlikely cartoon, which was Popeye the Sailor, and challenged me to find a connection to the Beatles. Well, it's not known if this was a cartoon the Beatles liked or not, but after doing only about an hour of research on the web, I came up with a funny but true connection.<br />I found out one of the songs the Beatles often performed during their Hamburg years, before they were writing all their own songs, was \\"Falling in Love Again,\\" by Sammy Lerner, an important songwriter of the 40s and 50s. But it so happens that Lerner also was enlisted to write the theme song for the Popeye the Sailor cartoon, which he did. So it turns out that there is indeed a connection between the Beatles and Popeye in that Lerner composed songs for, shall we say, both groups of singers. :-)<br />Anyway, I hope you didn't mind my little digression, but getting back to the book, this is a fine biography of the Beatles and is especially strong in its treatment of their early years and rise to fame. Although updated in the later edition, there isn't as much information about the post-1970 years, but as others have pointed out about the book, it's about the famous band's rise, not about their fall.the Beatles often performed during their Hamburg years, before they were writing all their own songs, was \\"Falling in Love Again,\\" by Sammy Lerner, an important songwriter of the 40s and 50s. But it so happens that Lerner also was enlisted to write the theme song for the Popeye the Sailor cartoon, which he did. So it turns out that there is indeed a connection between the Beatles and Popeye in that Lerner composed songs for, shall we say, both groups of singers. :-)<br />Anyway, I hope you didn't mind my little digression, but getting back to the book, this is a fine biography of the Beatles and is especially strong in its treatment of their early years and rise to fame. Although updated in the later edition, there isn't as much information about the post-1970 years, but as others have pointed out about the book, it's about the famous band's rise, not about their fall.	2004-05-23
660353:US	45193257	R3FHK6JGLS69U7	0486656225	142882763	General Chemistry (Dover Books on Chemistry)	Books	5	63	66	N	N	The classic text is still great	This is my 800th published review on Amazon so I thought I'd try to do something a little special. I review a lot of non-fiction and science books in various areas, and when I saw Pauling's classic text recently, I knew it fit the bill.<br />This is the unabridged Dover 1988 republication of the original 3rd edition published by W.H. Freeman and Co. in 1970 (the 1st ed. was 1947, if I remember right). At 972 pages, 26 long chapters, 16 appendices, and 283 figures and illustrations, it's a monster of a book even for a chemistry text.<br />When the text first appeared, it marked a major landmark and innovation in the teaching of chemistry in the extent to which Pauling was able to present the entire subject of chemistry in terms of its underlying unifying principles rather than as a collection of unrelated chemical facts. Pauling closely ties in the observable phenomena of chemistry with the most powerful theories, which he says include modern atomic and molecular theories, quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics, and thermodynamics.<br />Not the least of its virtues is that it is, despite the high-level treatment, surprisingly easy and enjoyable to read. The occasional mathematical treatments aren't easy for the beginner, certainly, but overall the book is quite approachable in terms of the style.<br />Pauling presents statistical mechanics first since he believes it's easier to grasp for the beginning student than chemical thermodynamics. Although there is some advanced math and calculus, as I said, most of that is located in the many appendices. Here you'll find many topics discussed in much more mathmatical rigor and detail, such as Fourier analysis applied to crystal structures, the wave functions for hydrogenlike orbitals and bond orbitals, an alternative derivation of the Boltzmann Distrubition Law, the entropy of a perfect gas, electric polarizabilities and electric dipoles, moments, and other topics.<br />All of these noteworthy points aside, though, perhaps the greatest strength of the book is Pauling's ability to explain in clear and concise prose even the most difficult concepts, without getting lost in a morass of extraneous details. He also often gives practical examples to illustrate how seemingly esoteric chemical principles can be applied to very ordinary everyday phenomena. For example, the usual definition of an acid or base is that of a proton donor or acceptor. However, the Lewis theory of acids and bases proposes that a base is anything that has available an unshared pair of electrons, and an acid is anything that could attach itself to such a pair. This theory has the advantage of being able to explain the ability of substances other than hydrogen to change the color of indicators. Another application is the explanation of salt formation by the reactions of acidic oxides and basic oxides.<br />I just had one final comment. At this point much of my general chemistry is pretty rusty and I'm more up on specific topics such as metallurgy. But Pauling does a fine job of explaining important applied topics like this as well, and there are many very readable and clear explanations of important practical metallurgical applications and how they work, including basic metals and their properties and that of their most important alloys, and how basic operations work such as that of a blast furnace, reverberation furnace, Bessemer furnace, and so on. Pauling is equally at home dealing with the advanced physics of the Schrodinger wave equation or the more mundane aspects of industrial metallurgical operations.<br />Altogether, this is a great text by a great scientist which has yet to be surpassed in its powerful, unified, theoretical approach, its clear and concise style, and its completeness of coverage.the greatest strength of the book is Pauling's ability to explain in clear and concise prose even the most difficult concepts, without getting lost in a morass of extraneous details. He also often gives practical examples to illustrate how seemingly esoteric chemical principles can be applied to very ordinary everyday phenomena. For example, the usual definition of an acid or base is that of a proton donor or acceptor. However, the Lewis theory of acids and bases proposes that a base is anything that has available an unshared pair of electrons, and an acid is anything that could attach itself to such a pair. This theory has the advantage of being able to explain the ability of substances other than hydrogen to change the color of indicators. Another application is the explanation of salt formation by the reactions of acidic oxides and basic oxides.<br />I just had one final comment. At this point much of my general chemistry is pretty rusty and I'm more up on specific topics such as metallurgy. But Pauling does a fine job of explaining important applied topics like this as well, and there are many very readable and clear explanations of important practical metallurgical applications and how they work, including basic metals and their properties and that of their most important alloys, and how basic operations work such as that of a blast furnace, reverberation furnace, Bessemer furnace, and so on. Pauling is equally at home dealing with the advanced physics of the Schrodinger wave equation or the more mundane aspects of industrial metallurgical operations. <br />Altogether, this is a great text by a great scientist which has yet to be surpassed in its powerful, unified, theoretical approach, its clear and concise style, and its completeness of coverage.	2004-05-21
661270:US	45193257	R3OU7XDSORRXJ8	0940871416	613885133	Xingyiquan: Theory, Applications, Fighting Tactics and Spirit	Books	5	29	35	N	N	Very fine book on this still little understood art	Here noted Chinese style expert Dr. Yang Jwing Ming has teamed up with Shou-Yu Liang, a noted martial arts coach, to produce an excellent volume on hsing-i (I prefer the older spelling). There's an awful lot of  material here, including several chapters totaling 75 pages devoted to Chinese philosophy and medical theory. But if you're like me, you've read enough of that and will probably skip over that material and turn to the pages showing the pictures of all the postures, forms, and applications. While I respect the Chinese traditions and Chinese culture for creating these arts, I prefer western scientific explanations based on anatomy, neurophysiology, and kinesiology rather than the Chinese ones, which should be thought of as pre-scientific metaphors for later rigorous and more scientific analysis.<br /><br />For example, to give just one brief explanation without getting too technical, consider the neural reflex known as the reciprocal inhibition of flexor-extensor pairs. Such a pair would be the triceps and biceps muscles. This neural action speeds up the muscular response by reducing the opposing muscle's tension. When the internal arts such as Tai Chi and the others emphasize being soft and relaxed, this is one (among several) factors that if one is over-tense will be inhibited and will interfere with speed and overall agility. Although this reflex is not under voluntary control (being a spinal cord level reflex), overall muscle tension is controlled by an area of the brain known as the basal ganglia or telencephalic nuclei, a region of the brain just below the cerebral cortex. And this area of the brain does respond to voluntary control, and too heightened a state of mental anxiety, fear,  and other factors can cause the basal ganglia to increase the level of muscle tension over what is optimal. This is one reason why the internal arts emphasize relaxation and not being too tense. But none of this was known until the last one hundred years.<br /><br />But getting back to the book, I liked the chapters showing the basic postures and moving patterns, the five-phases linking form, the Xing-Yi long form shown, and the chapter on practical applications. As the authors point out, after the student has learned the basic postures, the 12 shapes form is usually taught. But here the authors did something different which was nice. They presented another form instead which is rarely seen, a combination of the five fists and the 12 animal shapes that was developed by Master Liang's teacher, Master Zheng. The chapter also includes some of the applications of this interesting form. I think this is the main strength and most useful feature of the book, since the 12 shapes form can be found in several other books.<br /><br />In addition to the above, there is also a chapter on Xing-Yi Qi-Gong, an extensive appendix discussing Yue Fei's Ten Important Theses (the inventor of Xing-Yi), and a glossary of Chinese terms.e book, I liked the chapters showing the basic postures and moving patterns, the five-phases linking form, the Xing-Yi long form shown, and the chapter on practical applications. As the authors point out, after the student has learned the basic postures, the 12 shapes form is usually taught. But here the authors did something different which was nice. They presented another form instead which is rarely seen, a combination of the five fists and the 12 animal shapes that was developed by Master Liang's teacher, Master Zheng. The chapter also includes some of the applications of this interesting form. I think this is the main strength and most useful feature of the book, since the 12 shapes form can be found in several other books.    In addition to the above, there is also a chapter on Xing-Yi Qi-Gong, an extensive appendix discussing Yue Fei's Ten Important Theses (the inventor of Xing-Yi), and a glossary of Chinese terms.	2004-05-20
662754:US	45193257	RS32IT60EESRW	0786887176	273211218	Unleashing the Ideavirus: Stop Marketing AT People! Turn Your Ideas into Epidemics by Helping Your Customers Do the Marketing thing for You.	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting and useful concept	This is a readable and engaging little book on marketing that you can really read in just a few sittings since it's such a quick read. It was interesting to learn about some of the more spectacular marketing successes in recent years and how they were achieved, such as Paypal, Hotmail, Napster, and others. If you're an experienced advertising person you may already be familiar with the basic principles here, but if you're new to the area or are looking for some new ideas or a fresh approach, Godin's book is worth a look.<br />Godin's main idea, however, is deceptively simple, and it really can be summed up in just a few words. He believes that the most successful marketing campaigns are those that are simply spread by means of word of mouth, from person to person. The product was so \\"infectious,\\" in other words, that the marketer didn't have to do anything but just get the initial word out, and it spread from there until it became a virtual epidemic of consumer consumption.<br />There are ways, though, that you can help this process along, such as Steve Jurvetson's idea of including a little promotional message with every person's email advertising their service, which was then sent by all Hotmail customers to everyone they emailed, and it snowballed from there, growing to 12 million users in 18 months.<br />Godin's enthusiasm for marketing is contagious itself, and in fact he discusses the concept of \\"sneezers,\\" or people who are able to \\"infect\\" others and influence their purchasing decisions through their influence. (As someone with occasionally less than impressive immunity, I would have preferred the author not get quite this cute with the terminology, but oh well :-)). He discusses Oprah Winfrey, who he says is the most successful \\"sneezer\\" of our generation in her power to influence millions of people to buy the books from her book clubs and other products, not to mention her ability to make comparative unknowns like Dr. Phil successful media personalities just from the exposure gained on her show.<br />My only complaint about the book is that, as I said, the idea is pretty simple, and probably have been explained in a much shorter book rather than the actual 197 pages. A lot of the text is spent discussing various examples, which, although interesting, could have been pared down quite a bit. But overall, this is a well written, interesting, and enjoyable book to read on some of the most wildly successful marketing strategies of recent years with some useful ideas for putting them to work in your own business.st from the exposure gained on her show.<br />My only complaint about the book is that, as I said, the idea is pretty simple, and probably have been explained in a much shorter book rather than the actual 197 pages. A lot of the text is spent discussing various examples, which, although interesting, could have been pared down quite a bit. But overall, this is a well written, interesting, and enjoyable book to read on some of the most wildly successful marketing strategies of recent years with some useful ideas for putting them to work in your own business.	2004-05-19
671141:US	45193257	R13JKW2A1NGPV0	0520216512	422995689	Bonobo:  The Forgotten Ape	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Another fine effort by de Waal	Most people are familiar with chimps but few have heard of the bonobo, but we resemble them behaviorally more than any of the other great apes. Also I recall reading once that we have the greatest genetic similarity to bonobos. I forget the exact figure, but humans share something like 99.5 percent of their genetic material with bonobos.<br />De Waal teamed up with internationally acclaimed nature photographer Hans Lanting to produce not only a very scholarly but very readable and interesting book, and a visually very striking one as well.<br />There are many similarities between bonobo behavior and humans, and ways in which they differ from other apes. Females have higher social standing in bonobo society compared to chimps, and high-ranking males never stay that way for long unless they have the support of at least a high-ranking female or two.<br />Females also cooperate more than in other apes. They have been observed working together to drive off an aggressive male, which doesn't happen in chimps. Females are also very social, and seek to establish alliances with other males. This can come in handy in various ways. For example, during the mating season, if a a male the female doesn't like wants to mate, she can effectively rebuff his attempts by getting her other male friends to come to her aid. They even resemble us in their sexual behavior, since they are the only ape observed to use the missionary position during sex, which they do about half the time.<br />This is just a small sample of the many interesting and thought-provoking things I picked up from reading this book. Overall, a fascinating and very visually appealing presentation on this little-known and understood relative among the great apes.	2004-05-12
676555:US	45193257	R2K771M9T7FJWD	0789492717	563003649	Ancient Greece (DK Revealed)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great for younger readers	Although brief at only 38 pages, this is a very well designed and written book on the Greeks intended for school-age children and younger readers. Using cutting-edge graphics in their usual effective way, the author and DK brings the life and times of the ancient Greeks alive in this nicely done little volume.<br />I note that the author has written more than 60 children's books on various history topics, and has personally visited many of the major historical sites in his 12 trips to Greece. Prof. Hugh Bowden, who teaches ancient history at King's College of London, also served as consultant on the book. So the qualifications of the writers appear to be top-notch.<br />The book is organized into two-page spreads which present important events and aspects of Greek culture and history. Topics included are The Trojan Horse, Ancient Beginnings, Legends and Myths, The Greek Revival, Sea Battles, Greeks at War, Private Lives, Power and Politics, The Parthenon, Religions and Worship, Greek Theater, The Olympics, King of Macedon, Alexander the Great, and The Greek Legacy. Five of the above spreads are presented using transparent overlays to enhance the display or to show how a building like the Parthenon appears now versus the artist's reconstruction.<br />Although far older than the intended age-group for this book, I read most of it and picked up some interesting things myself. I'm interested in archaeology, ancient history, and military history, and another of the overlays deals with the famous sea battle of Arginusae, which took place in 406 B.C. I learned that the Greek triremes were much more complex than I had thought. There were 170 oarsmen in three rows (hence the name of the ship); a crew of 10 sailors, 5 officers, and a helmsman to steer; marines consisting of 10 Hoplite soldiers (named for their big, colorful shield, the hoplon), with spears and shields to protect the ship during boarding or to attack another ship; 4 Scythian archer mercenaries from the area of the Black Sea; and a Trierarch or captain, usually a wealthy Athenian who could pay for the cost of the ship. The Hoplites and sailors were paid, however, by the city-state.<br />The main battle strategy was for the ships to ram each other with the metal-reinforced prows, and they could make 10 knots at full speed, which was enough to crash through the thickly timbered hulls of the ships. After the battle, the sea was full of wreckage and 20,000 dead or dying men, which gives some idea of the scale of the naval operations that were possible even back then. Although Athens won this battle, they eventually lost the 27- year war with Sparta.<br />All in all another well-designed, well-written, and visually appealing offering in DK's extensive history and ancient history series.f the Black Sea; and a Trierarch or captain, usually a wealthy Athenian who could pay for the cost of the ship. The Hoplites and sailors were paid, however, by the city-state.<br />The main battle strategy was for the ships to ram each other with the metal-reinforced prows, and they could make 10 knots at full speed, which was enough to crash through the thickly timbered hulls of the ships. After the battle, the sea was full of wreckage and 20,000 dead or dying men, which gives some idea of the scale of the naval operations that were possible even back then. Although Athens won this battle, they eventually lost the 27- year war with Sparta.<br />All in all another well-designed, well-written, and visually appealing offering in DK's extensive history and ancient history series.	2004-05-07
677551:US	45193257	RZ6YEV1Y4VNYN	0743224310	603784729	Four Against the Arctic: Shipwrecked for Six Years at the Top of the World	Books	3	28	30	N	N	Not enough info for a book	It's amazing the story of four Russian sailors' survival on the sub-arctic island of Svalbard for six years isn't better known, considering it's probably the most amazing feat of arctic survival in the long and checkered history of arctic and antarctic exploration.<br />Unfortunately, I have to agree with many of the other reviewers here that the &quot;signal to noise ratio&quot; of the book is pretty low; there really isn't that much information about the sailors' story, and most of the book is really about the extensive research the author did and his own personal journey to discover the facts of the story. Unfortunately, very little real information seems to be available and the result shows in the final book.<br />There is no doubt that the author went to considerable trouble and did very thorough and extensive research to glean what little information was available, and the author certainly deserves credit for that. As a former researcher myself I understand the fascination of doing research and the thrill of discovery in ferreting out all the facts, but the end result here unfortunately is still pretty thin.<br />The author also spends too much time finding fault with the French academic's style who originally interviewed the sailors, considering that Roberts's style itself is a little too ponderous and grandiloquent at times, especially about pretty trivial matters.<br />On the positive side, however, I did learn a few interesting details of how the sailors managed to survive for the time they did, and I enjoyed that. For example, they were able to build a wooden hut from the driftwood that floats up on Svalbard's rocky shores. Svalbard itself has no trees, but what it does have is literally tons of driftwood. This is due to the prevailing currents which cause the logs that float out to the sea from Russian rivers to end up on the coast of the island. The sailors also had to kill several polar bears. That's probably the most exciting fact in the book although nothing else is known about it.<br />If you do decide to buy the book the best way to read it would be to skip over the sections about the author, the French professor, and most of the details of the research and just read the passages about the sailors, because there is some interesting information and material there. This would have made a fine magazine article but there just isn't enough information to justify a book-length treatment as the author has done here.h nothing else is known about it.<br />If you do decide to buy the book the best way to read it would be to skip over the sections about the author, the French professor, and most of the details of the research and just read the passages about the sailors, because there is some interesting information and material there. This would have made a fine magazine article but there just isn't enough information to justify a book-length treatment as the author has done here.	2004-05-07
678630:US	45193257	R2F07J3978G0W3	0071435212	84765007	In Search of Burningbush: A Story of Golf, Friendship and the Meaning of Irons	Books	5	1	3	N	N	My mistake	At first blush, I thought the title of this book was about the time our president dropped a burning cigaret in his lap, but silly me, it actually about the game of golf. :-)<br />I'm not much of a golf player, but I did read a chapter or two in the book just to see what it was about, and it turned out to be a very absorbing, interesting, and entertaining book about two golfers' pilgrimage to Scotland to play at the great St. Andrews course. This is more than just another golf book; for the two men it's more a journey of both the body and spirit as they test themselves against the redoubtable obstacles of the legendary course.<br />I also learned some fascinating trivia about St. Andrews. According to the author, in addition to its picturesque location next to the sea in the historical old Kingdom of Fife, it was originally the site of an elephant graveyard! Well, I would like to see further information on that (paleontologists say that wooley mammoths and rhinoceroses didn't become extinct in Great Britain until as recent as five or six thousand years ago) but this is just one of the many interesting subjects that came up in the course of the book.	2004-05-06
680874:US	45193257	R1X4YYH61R7RER	0393319911	81678570	Geons, Black Holes, and Quantum Foam: A Life in Physics	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Excellent autobiography	This is really a wonderful scientific biography. Wheeler has an engaging, easy-going style that doesn't sacrifice detail and scholarly accuracy for readibility. It's almost like having a fireside chat with the great physicist about the entire history of 20th century physics. Wheeler's career spanned almost the entire 20th century and he worked in many areas, from atomic and radiation physics to nuclear physics, quantum theory, black holes and gravitation.  He even made a brief foray into sociology when he attended a conference and spoke on &quot;National Survival and Human Development,&quot; in which he emphasized the importance of a country developing the full capabilities of all citizens.<br />In addition to learning about his own distinguished career, you meet just about every other important physicist and/or mathematician or had anything to do with physics (such as Carson Mark, who I didn't know about before, who Wheeler spoke highly of), and his account is full of interesting personal details about famous and non-famous physicists alike. Wheeler met or knew other great scientists like Einstein, Niels Bohr, Richard Feynman, Hans Bethe, Oppenheimer, Stanislaw Ulam, John von Neumann, Enrico Fermi, Ernest Lawrence, Isidore Rabi, Leo Szilard, Carl Bohm, and many others too numerous to mention.<br />In addition to the above famous names, I also learned something about many other names, both famous and not so famous, that I didn't know much about before, and Wheeler often briefly mentions what each scientist's contribution was about, especially when it influenced his own thinking.<br />Wheeler provides some important insights about himself. For example, he commented on how much of his own productivity was due to the deadlines and time pressure he was under most of his career. Many of us have the impression that brilliant minds like Wheeler (much of it fostered by the public's stereotype of Einstein) create their amazing intellectual achievements in a world divorced from reality and the mundane aspects of everyday life, but Wheeler says that it was often all the deadlines he had to meet that was responsible for much of his best work. He was always having to meet deadlines for papers, class lectures, various reports, talks he was invited to give, and so on throughout the course of his career, and he said he was often spurred to work harder because of them, and often did his best work under the pressure of having to prepare a lecture or talk at the last minute.<br />Overall, this is a very enjoyable, readable, and interesting biography about one of the great scientists of our time.<br />By the way, just a personal note here. I'm not a physicist myself (actually, I'm a neurobiologist by training), but I'm the grand-nephew of physicist Ernest Lawrence, who won the 1939 Nobel prize for his invention of the first atom smasher or cyclotron, and who Wheeler met briefly when he was considering a move from Princeton to U.C. Berkeley.rom reality and the mundane aspects of everyday life, but Wheeler says that it was often all the deadlines he had to meet that was responsible for much of his best work. He was always having to meet deadlines for papers, class lectures, various reports, talks he was invited to give, and so on throughout the course of his career, and he said he was often spurred to work harder because of them, and often did his best work under the pressure of having to prepare a lecture or talk at the last minute.<br />Overall, this is a very enjoyable, readable, and interesting biography about one of the great scientists of our time. <br />By the way, just a personal note here. I'm not a physicist myself (actually, I'm a neurobiologist by training), but I'm the grand-nephew of physicist Ernest Lawrence, who won the 1939 Nobel prize for his invention of the first atom smasher or cyclotron, and who Wheeler met briefly when he was considering a move from Princeton to U.C. Berkeley.	2004-05-04
681883:US	45193257	RL2KQY2K0WQDH	0723008108	206239135	Past Worlds: "Times" Atlas of Archaeology	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent historical atlas	This is a very well done historical atlas covering the time from man's earliest origins to modern times. It may be a reprint or different edition by Collins of the Times atlas of the same name. It covers the period from 2.5 million years ago to the present, but 3/4 of of the space is devoted to the period up to 150 A.D., and the remaining 1/4 text covers about the last 2000 years, so the emphasis is mainly on the ancient world, as the title suggests.<br />The articles focus on various topics and events during a particular period. For example, there are articles on &quot;First Farmers of the Near East, 10,000-6,000 B.C.; Bronze Age Scandinavia, 2,000-500 B.C.; The Assyrian Empire, 950-600 B.C.; Egypt: The Pyramid Age, 3250-2000 B.C.; Han China, 200 B.C.-220 A.D.; Iron-Age Africa, 1000 B.C.-650 A.D.; The Aztecs and Their Ancestors, 900-1521 A.D.; Empires of the Andes, 800-1532 A.D.;&quot; and many others. There is a good balance between articles on the east and the west, and even a couple of articles on what's known about the settlement of Polynesia and the Pacific Rim and the Maori settlement of New Zealand.<br />Other features include a color-coded timeline at the beginning of the book, an extensive index of almost 30 pages, and a glossary of archaeological terms. The text was written by an international team of scholars of dozens of specialists. There are numerous photos, maps, and illustrations of towns, villages, temple complexes, cities and so on down through the ages. Many are done as cutaway or aerial views for a better perspective and understanding.<br />One final feature of the book is a 25-page introductory section discussing how archaeologists used various methods, techniques of analysis, and interpretation in areas such as food, ritual, textiles, warfare, burials, settlement patterns, disease, and even underwater sites. This is a fine atlas to just browse or to read on whatever topics happen to interest you. Unfortunately, although not that old, the atlas appears to be out of print but is worth picking up used if you can find a copy.appears to be out of print but is worth picking up used if you can find a copy.	2004-05-04
683668:US	45193257	R3MLICIGTHGM94	1586632388	693259451	Historical Atlas of the Ancient World 4,000,000 - 500 BC	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Another fine volume from Haywood	This is another fine history book and atlas by Dr. Haywood, whose historical atlases are some of the best out there for readability, ease of use, and price. I have his Atlas of World History, and it's excellent as well. This one seems to be a little less technical than that one, but both are very readable and not dry like your typical historical atlas. I practically collect these things and have 7 or 8 of the major ones, and as I said, Haywood's are often the most readable and often the best value in terms of price.<br />Haywood has his usual nice touch with the material and he pays more attention to skillfully integrating graphics and illustrations with the text. In fact, his Atlas of World History used a team of graphics experts which worked specifically on that aspect of the book, and it shows compared to the other atlases on the market. I assume the nice layout and design on this book means the same approach was used here. The only other major historical atlas that competes with Haywood's in terms of visual design is the big Dorling-Kindersley one, which, although great, is four or five times the price of this one.<br />This book contains two-page spreads covering the historical periods from prehistoric times up to 500 B.C. The maps are well done and not too busy like the ones in some atlases, where they're so dense with symbols and other junk that you can hardly read the map. This book and the Atlas of World History overlap somewhat as this volume contains all of the material on the ancient world in that volume, but since it's specifically devoted to the ancient world, there is quite a bit more additional material as well. Overall, another fine history offering from Prof. Haywood.	2004-05-02
688200:US	45193257	RZQBB1V1WAS8H	1579546536	915136173	Wait,  Wait...Don't Tell Me!: The Oddly Informative News Quiz	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very funny book	This is a very funny book based on the radio show. I'm something of a trivia fan, and this book has some of the funniest and most entertaining trivia I've seen. The cover says, \\"Test your knowledge of narcissistic entertainers, stupid criminals, and windbag politicians.\\" That was enough to get me to pick it up and take a look, and I was glad I did.<br />The book has trivia on other subjects besides the three main ones above. In fact there's quite a variety of stuff, so it's hard to summarize it, but I thought I'd at least mention a few things to give you some idea of what they're like:<br />A British spy manual during WWII recommended sneaking into German brothels and putting itching powder in the condoms.<br />Elvis offered to help President Nixon track down Communists and drug abusers.<br />Bob Dylan told the L.A. Times that he dislikes today's popular music so much that if he was coming of age today, he'd turn to architecture or mathematics instead of music.<br />Zsa Zsa Gabor once had an affair with Kemal Attaturk, the former president of Turkey, saying, \\"He dazzled me with his sexual prowess and seduced me with his perversion.\\"<br />A species of ant belonging to the Camponotis genus can, when provoked, shake so violently that they explode, showering their enemies with sticky goo. They're able to do this because of a special gland that runs the length of the body.<br />There's even a funny piece of trivia about life in Antarctica. Condom machines were installed in the bathrooms at a research station on the Ross Ice Shelf. The owner of the vending machines said that, \\"It's pretty much a little village where everyone knows everyone, so if they walk into the loo to buy a condom it's a lot more confortable than going to the local shop and buying them where everyone knows what's going on.\\"<br />More than 1500 people work at the station during the summer, compared to only 50 during the winter. So I guess most of the romantic dalliances (and condom sales) take place during the comparatively warm summer months. :-)<br />And lastly, for our almost as frigid neighbors to the north (having travelled around a lot of Canada myself), the Canadian Wildlife Service is worried about the increasing population of beavers and possible untoward encounters with tourists, campers, and park visitors. The Service issued a warning saying, \\"Beavers rear up on their hind legs and loudly hiss or growl before lunging forward to deliver extremely damaging bites.\\" (The book then says the Service has advised Americans not to wear wood when travelling to Canada :-)).<br />Anyway, that should give you some idea of what the book is like. Overall, a very funny book that had me chuckling and laughing out loud more than any book I've had in quite a while.e during the comparatively warm summer months. :-)<br />And lastly, for our almost as frigid neighbors to the north (having travelled around a lot of Canada myself), the Canadian Wildlife Service is worried about the increasing population of beavers and possible untoward encounters with tourists, campers, and park visitors. The Service issued a warning saying, \\"Beavers rear up on their hind legs and loudly hiss or growl before lunging forward to deliver extremely damaging bites.\\" (The book then says the Service has advised Americans not to wear wood when travelling to Canada :-)).<br />Anyway, that should give you some idea of what the book is like. Overall, a very funny book that had me chuckling and laughing out loud more than any book I've had in quite a while.	2004-04-29
691902:US	45193257	R13ERT607LZNC7	089886738X	181124055	Annapurna: 50 Years of Expeditions in the Death Zone	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fascinating and exciting history	This is a book about the first successful ascent of an 8000+ meter peak, Annapurna, possibly the world's most dangerous mountain in that many routes remained unclimbed until 20 or 30 years later. As Messner poignantly points out, perhaps more people have died attempting to climb Annapurna than have succeeded in climbing it.<br />Messner captures the drama and excitement as well as the grueling hardships and dangers the team experienced on the expedition, a French team of nine men lead by Maurice Herzog. Despite its brilliant success, Herzog became a controversial figure and was roundly criticized by others and in the press in the wake of the climb because of his style of leadership and some other personality quirks.<br />Messner gives a detailed account of the expedition and the controversy surrounding it, and concludes that Herzog's leadership and single-mindedness of purpose was still essential to the group's success. Herzog is the only member of the original expedition still alive, the other eight having died in later climbing accidents and one in a car crash. As if to further highlight the dangers of the mountain, one photo shows a rock outcropping where the names of nine people who died in the late 70s and early 80s are chiseled into the rock as a sort of memorial.<br />One of the more interesting aspects of the book were the discussions between the mountaineers about strategy and how to analyze the various possible routes for dangers. On one face of Annapurna that was being considered, one possible route up lay along a scalloped section of the face wall. However, that would have the effect funnelling all the avalanches right into that area of the face, which was the one they were considering using as part of their new route. Messner recounts this discussion from his own expedition which was successful.<br />Messner also discusses several of the other ascents since and why they were important, such as the conquering of a new, dangerous route up the mountain, and the expeditions of Chris Bonnington, Erhard Loretan, and Messner himself. Messner also points out that by the time of his ascent in 1985, the team leader (which was himself) was more a builder of group consensus rather than the Napoleonic-like dictator with absolute power that Herzog and others had been in their day.<br />Since 1950 there have been 120 expeditions to Annapurna. There is an appendix with a list of all of them along with brief descriptions. The more important ones get a paragraph or so, and the key expeditions are discussed in their own sections in the text, as I mentioned above. Overall, a very interesting and dramatic account of the history of moutaineering on one of the world's highest and most dangerous peaks.and the expeditions of Chris Bonnington, Erhard Loretan, and Messner himself. Messner also points out that by the time of his ascent in 1985, the team leader (which was himself) was more a builder of group consensus rather than the Napoleonic-like dictator with absolute power that Herzog and others had been in their day.<br />Since 1950 there have been 120 expeditions to Annapurna. There is an appendix with a list of all of them along with brief descriptions. The more important ones get a paragraph or so, and the key expeditions are discussed in their own sections in the text, as I mentioned above. Overall, a very interesting and dramatic account of the history of moutaineering on one of the world's highest and most dangerous peaks.	2004-04-26
695989:US	45193257	RA7X2IMFO723W	1575400758	808171307	How to Climb: Advanced Rock Climbing	Books	5	6	24	N	N	Excellent book on this sport	I get acrophobia just from standing on a deep-pile carpet, so this isn't something I'm ever going to do myself, but I still found it interesting to read about it. I think the people who do this are some of the bravest people I know (as well as probably being completely nuts. :-)). Just looking at some of the pictures showing climbers going up almost featureless, smooth, sheer walls along a little crack set my heart to pounding a little bit.<br />The book contains a wealth of detail and information on rock climbing and much space is devoted to climbing techniques and strategies. I didn't know there were so many different kinds of grips and holds one could perform, and how they'd been adapted to specific situations and needs, but it was very interesting reading about that, and I discuss some of that further below.<br />The book is divided into seven chapters: Face Climbing, Crack Climbing, Rapelling, Sport Climbing, Adventure Climbing (this was one of the most interesting chapters), Training, and Self-Rescue.<br />Each outdoor sport has its own special vernacular and and special skills and techniques and rock climbing is no different. As I said, there's so much info here it would be hard to pick and choose a topic, but I did want to mention one thing I found interesting, which was the crack climbing and crack skills. The authors say you have to become &quot;crack fluent&quot; and must develop at least some competence in this since they point out that historical big walls and free routes invariably follow crack systems. To become a true &quot;crack-master&quot; requires patience, practice, and technique. Cracks vary greatly. Some cracks are so small that all you can do is use fingers jams. Other cracks are bigger and you can get your whole hand in the crack and use a hand or a fist jam, and several of those are discussed too.<br />Cracks are noted for requiring &quot;an even combination of applied technique and physical enfurance.&quot; One of the special techniques for very narrow cracks is the &quot;finger stack&quot; and &quot;butterfly jam.&quot; In the former you put your hand into the crack and stack the index. middle, and ring fingers against one another and vigorously twist downward. The butterfly jam involves placing the thumb into the crack and stacking the fingers against it. These are just a few of the dozens of special techniques that were discussed and that I learned about in this book. All of the different finger and hand jams and other techniques are fully illustrated so you can see exactly what's going on.<br />The authors also spend some time discussing the dangers of free-soloing and climbing in general. One author (C.L.) said he knows 14 climbers who had died in the last 6 years alone. This sobering statistic certainly points up the dangers of rock climbing, and yet the authors say that more and more people are being attracted into the sport. So as I said, while I doubt I'll ever try this myself, I found it  interesting to read about and learn something about what's involved.<br />This is an excellent book on the subject which will be of use mainly to already experienced and skilled participants in this interesting and exciting but very risky sport.or very narrow cracks is the &quot;finger stack&quot; and &quot;butterfly jam.&quot; In the former you put your hand into the crack and stack the index. middle, and ring fingers against one another and vigorously twist downward. The butterfly jam involves placing the thumb into the crack and stacking the fingers against it. These are just a few of the dozens of special techniques that were discussed and that I learned about in this book. All of the different finger and hand jams and other techniques are fully illustrated so you can see exactly what's going on.<br />The authors also spend some time discussing the dangers of free-soloing and climbing in general. One author (C.L.) said he knows 14 climbers who had died in the last 6 years alone. This sobering statistic certainly points up the dangers of rock climbing, and yet the authors say that more and more people are being attracted into the sport. So as I said, while I doubt I'll ever try this myself, I found it  interesting to read about and learn something about what's involved. <br />This is an excellent book on the subject which will be of use mainly to already experienced and skilled participants in this interesting and exciting but very risky sport.	2004-04-22
699792:US	45193257	R162F8DC9F0IB4	080483217X	613827267	Pressure-point Fighting: A Guide to the Secret Heart of Asian Martial Arts	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Useful book	This is an excellent book by Mr. Clark, although I agree with some of the other reviewers here that the title isn't exclusively a book on pressure-point concepts and their application. The book's real strength is in illustrating some of the bunkai implicit in the katas, and in clarifying some applications that might otherwise seem mystifying. This is certainly valuable as the bunkai aren't practiced enough in many schools (and even in my own school), and this book goes over a number of these in detail. My only criticism is that the connection between the actual bunkai and the pressure point information isn't as clear or relevant as it could be.<br />For an experienced instructor like myself this isn't a problem, as I can extrapolate, for example, in the case of a throw or takedown, several pressure points that might be useful to apply along with the throw or takedown. But a beginner or intermediate student might not be able to easily make that connection. Also, Clark had some applications I hadn't thought of myself and I found those vaulable.<br />The author discusses both eastern and western medical theories and concepts and how they relate to pressure points. I noted the author doesn't uncritically subscribe to the Chinese theories, which are best regarded as pre-scientific metaphors for later scientific analysis of the underlying anatomy and physiology, but he discusses these concepts presumably for completeness, and besides, every other book on pressure-point fighting accepts these ideas as received truth, anyway. Even Dr. Yang Jwing Ming, who I consider very knowledgeable and educated in several arts and in Chinese medical theory, ascribes to these ideas in his Eagle Claw kung-fu book and other places. Well, Dr. Ming's doctoral work was in engineering rather than physiology and neurobiology, which was my field, so although an educated man it's not exactly his main scientific strength.<br />The problem is that there are too many martial artists who aren't well grounded either in western anatomy and physiology (let alone the neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, which can get quite technical), and so they naively accept lock, stock, and barrel the Chinese theories for which there is no scientific basis whatsoever. Of course, people can say, &quot;Well, science doesn't know everything.&quot; That's true. However, the fact that science doesn't know all of the truths out there doesn't mean we don't know that certain things are simply false and are nonsense, and the Chinese theory of meridians and chi and how pressure points work (especially how certain pressure points are more vulnerable at certain points of the day) is an example of this.<br />Not to beat a dead horse, but my kung-fu instructor would occasionally say that a certain point was vulnerable in the afternoon. Well, being a polite student (and his senior student) I never contradicted him on this, but this is now 25 years later and now I'm the teacher. The simple fact is that almost any pressure point strike could have a greater effect later in the afternoon than in the morning since that's when many people reach their physiological low during the day, and things like blood sugar and circulating catecholamines (such as epinephrine and norepinephrine) reach their lowest points and people just don't have as much energy. Furthermore, neuroactive chemicals that can cause drowsiness build up in certain areas of the brain. Furthermore, the brain, which can only digest glucose, is sensitive to a drop in blood levels. But the ancients who devised these theories had no knowledge of blood chemistry, neurobiology, or any other modern medical science area.<br />One interesting aspect of the book that I really liked is Clark's drawing from writers as diverse as Klauswitz, the 19th-century German military strategist, William of Ockham, the medieval philosopher and logician, and economist Wilfredo Pareto (the &quot;80/20&quot; rule) for concepts to illustrate different concepts in themartial arts. Since the only military stratetgist that most martial artists seem to be familiar with is Sun Tzu (who gets too much press in my opinion), I was pleased to see something a little different in that regard and I give Mr. Clark points for that. I found this quite useful and shows Mr. Clark to be educated beyond the boundaries of the martial arts as well.<br />The author illustrates and discusses about 30 different techniques specifically drawn from Okinawan and Japanese katas. These include attack combinations, self-defense, takedowns, and throws. There is some excellent material here on the application of some otherwise obscure and hard to understand movements. For example, Clark shows how the double mountain blocks in the kata Jutte (which is spelled &quot;Jitte&quot; in the book) could be used as a striking and throwing combination, which had never made much sense to me before except as a double blocking movement. The author uses mainly Heian (or Pinan) 4 and 5 Naihanchi 2 (or Tekki in Japanese karate), Bassai Dai, and Kwanku (or Kusanku in Okinawan karate) as the main source of examples, but a couple of throws from Jutte and Empi are also shown.<br />Finally, there is an appendix listing the pressure points and systems of about a dozen different writers, some out of print, and an appendix on the pressure points with a brief description and definition of each. All in all, I found this a good book although as I said, it might only be useful to someone with enough experience to connect the pressure point information with some of the alternative applications. But the book would still be useful to beginners for its useful illustrations of how to apply many of the bunkai.e martial arts. Since the only military stratetgist that most martial artists seem to be familiar with is Sun Tzu (who gets too much press in my opinion), I was pleased to see something a little different in that regard and I give Mr. Clark points for that. I found this quite useful and shows Mr. Clark to be educated beyond the boundaries of the martial arts as well.<br />The author illustrates and discusses about 30 different techniques specifically drawn from Okinawan and Japanese katas. These include attack combinations, self-defense, takedowns, and throws. There is some excellent material here on the application of some otherwise obscure and hard to understand movements. For example, Clark shows how the double mountain blocks in the kata Jutte (which is spelled &quot;Jitte&quot; in the book) could be used as a striking and throwing combination, which had never made much sense to me before except as a double blocking movement. The author uses mainly Heian (or Pinan) 4 and 5 Naihanchi 2 (or Tekki in Japanese karate), Bassai Dai, and Kwanku (or Kusanku in Okinawan karate) as the main source of examples, but a couple of throws from Jutte and Empi are also shown.<br />Finally, there is an appendix listing the pressure points and systems of about a dozen different writers, some out of print, and an appendix on the pressure points with a brief description and definition of each. All in all, I found this a good book although as I said, it might only be useful to someone with enough experience to connect the pressure point information with some of the alternative applications. But the book would still be useful to beginners for its useful illustrations of how to apply many of the bunkai.	2004-04-20
701855:US	45193257	R2YBO0HQV5JG2X	1580170692	51714502	Wild Turkeys: Hunting and Watching	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent book on the subject	I've only beeen hunting twice in my life, once deer hunting with a .30-06 and the other quail hunting with a 12-gauge shotgun, so while hunting is not really an interest of mine, I was still struck by the title of a book devoted exclusively to turkey hunting, so I decided to check it out. (Also, at first blush I thought the title had to do with the managers I've had over the years. On the other hand, they're more like tame or couch turkeys. :-)).<br />I learned some interesting things about turkeys and turkey hunting from this book. For example, the author makes the interesting statement that turkey hunting is the most dangerous hunting sport in the U.S. Apparently there are more hunting accidents turkey shooting than in any other sport. The author says the reasons involve the need for complete camouflage, the use of new magnum shotgun loads with ranges of over 100 yards, the wariness and difficulty of the quarry, and the fact that people try to actively stalk the turkeys and end up getting in each other's line of fire.<br />The book discusses many aspects of turkey hunting, and there are chapters on habits and habitat, safety and equipment, field dressing, photography, cooking and recipes, and  mounting and preserving your trophy. I was struck by some of the recipes which included grandma's sausage stuffing, Wiener schnitzel, savory turkey pie, Plainville turkey thighs, and turkey parmesan and tettrazini, all of which sounded quite appetizing. That's only a sampler. And for those interested in black powder hunting and shooting there is even a section devoted to the use of those rifles, as well as more typical modern rifles. Finally there are appendices listing state game commissions and a glossary of hunting terms.<br />I noted that the author is apparently a veterinarian, and he certainly knows a lot about birds and specifically turkeys. The text is well written and there are plenty of illustrations to accompany the text. Although as I said I'm no expert in this area this seemed like an excellent book on the subject which I can highly recommend.rea this seemed like an excellent book on the subject which I can highly recommend.	2004-04-18
705040:US	45193257	R2G4ZXO9VMINVT	1585920541	413393483	Glaciers!: The Art of Travel, the Science of Rescue	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Interesting and technically detailed presentation	This is a book on something I knew nothing about before--the art and science of travelling, climbing, and rescue on glaciers. There are six chapters that dicuss various aspects of glacier survival and climbing skills, including equipment and clothing, glacier features and hazards, rope techniques for travel and rescue (which is called &quot;rigging&quot; in mountaineering parlance), anchors and anchor systems, and glacier travel techniques and crevasse rescue. In addition, there are three appendices on knots for glacier travel and rescue, the self-arrest (which is about how to stop yourself or a companion from sliding or falling), and mechanical advantage, which is devoted to different pulley systems.<br />The book is obviously intented for serious climbers and rescue personnel since much of it is fairly technical and detailed. Just the rope rescue and pulley systems can get pretty complex, but I enjoyed reading about all of it nevertheless, and I have new appreciation of and understanding for the skill it takes to survive or perform a rescue under these conditions.<br />There are so many interesting topics on glacier travel and survival discussed that it's hard to summarize or pick just one as an example, but it was interesting to learn about the pros and cons of different-numbered rope teams. For example, there is always  a trade-off between the number of the people in the team, safety, and speed of travel. Two-person teams can travel the fastest but are considered the least safe since if one person falls into a crevasse it's very difficult to effect a rescue. Three-person teams are considered the minimum for safe travel but are slower than two-man teams, and five-man teams are considered the safest but are the slowest. Although considered the minimum for safe travel, for a three-man team, it turns out that it's very difficult to perform a rescue if the middle person falls into a crevasse, whereas if the person on either end falls in it's not as difficult.<br />Each discipline has its own special terminology and mountaineering is no different. I learned a lot of new words and terms, so I'll mention just a few of these here. I learned about the Bilgeri rescue, the Canadian drop-loop systen, how to rescue the middle person (which as I said, can present special difficulties), the Prusik knot and single-strand food Prusik, the Garda and mariner's knots, belay systems for low to high force falls, mechanical ascenders and mini-ascenders, firn tubes (an anchor tube that can be driven into the snow, bollards (anchors for snow and ice), pickets (which are just like it sounds and are metal stakes), ice screws, and many others.<br />One final odd thing I learned is that there is a photo of a mountaineer wading almost hip deep across a slush pool. I didn't know that glaciers also contained pools of melted water. You'd think all the water would be frozen. But I read once that the glaciers and snow on Mt. Ranier are melting so much that sometimes enough flood water has run out of certain ice caves that they've occasionally knocked both people and a trail outhouse down. :-) There's an odd German word for this type of flood but unfortunately I don't remember it right now.<br />The text is well written and there are many illustrations, especially of the many rope, knots, and pulley systems, configurations and techniques which show their application in different situations. This is an excellent book on glaciers for mountaineering which I suspect will be mainly of interest to serious climbers and rescue team members.ch discipline has its own special terminology and mountaineering is no different. I learned a lot of new words and terms, so I'll mention just a few of these here. I learned about the Bilgeri rescue, the Canadian drop-loop systen, how to rescue the middle person (which as I said, can present special difficulties), the Prusik knot and single-strand food Prusik, the Garda and mariner's knots, belay systems for low to high force falls, mechanical ascenders and mini-ascenders, firn tubes (an anchor tube that can be driven into the snow, bollards (anchors for snow and ice), pickets (which are just like it sounds and are metal stakes), ice screws, and many others.<br />One final odd thing I learned is that there is a photo of a mountaineer wading almost hip deep across a slush pool. I didn't know that glaciers also contained pools of melted water. You'd think all the water would be frozen. But I read once that the glaciers and snow on Mt. Ranier are melting so much that sometimes enough flood water has run out of certain ice caves that they've occasionally knocked both people and a trail outhouse down. :-) There's an odd German word for this type of flood but unfortunately I don't remember it right now.<br />The text is well written and there are many illustrations, especially of the many rope, knots, and pulley systems, configurations and techniques which show their application in different situations. This is an excellent book on glaciers for mountaineering which I suspect will be mainly of interest to serious climbers and rescue team members.	2004-04-15
706017:US	45193257	R7JYG2CQ2Z7HD	0865681724	224436370	The Fundamentals of Pa Kua Chang, Vol. 1	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent book	This is a detailed and in-depth but very readable book on this still little known form of Chinese boxing, tai chi and even hsing-i still being probably better known outside of China, although none of the so-called internal boxing arts are still as well known in the west as kung-fu.<br />After an introduction and chapter on the history of the art and the exploits of Master Lu Shui T'ien, the senior author's teacher, the writers launch into a discussion of the techniques and philosophy of pa kua. Chapters cover footwork and stepping methods, hand and palm training, body training, pa kua philosophy, the production of chi energy, and a final chapter on pa kua chi kung methods.<br />Pa kua is most known for its unique stepping and footwork and I was most interested in that, and the book has a nice 50-page chapter on it. The descriptions of several stepping and circle methods were very clear and so were the illustrations and diagrams. However, it would be very difficult for someone who hadn't actually seen a practitioner stepping the circle to get an idea of what it's really like from just reading; but as I'd seen it before that wasn't a problem for me.<br />Compared to karate, kung fu and other martial arts, pa kua is most likely to strike while moving or stepping rather than being planted in a rooted or powerful stance. Although I was exposed to pa kua many years ago when I was intensively studying wu-style tai chi and chin na, I was most interested in the stepping methods and whether they could be adapted to the system of knife-fighting and knife-fighting defenses I've developed over the last 25 years, which are a combination of escrima/kali, Indonesian silat, European fencing, and American Bowie-style methods. I'd already incorporated several pa kua turning and stepping methods into the system and was interested in whether the book might show me anything new or different, and I may have gotten a few extra ideas for things that might work, although I was familiar with most of the material from my previous studies.<br />So although my main interest is not in pa kua I still found the book useful as an interesting review of the material, and as I said, may have picked up some things that might be useful in my present teaching and training in karate, kobudo weapons, and the knife.<br />If you're beginner to intermediate practitioner this is still a good book with much good information and I can highly recommend it. Also, the first chapter on Master Lu's adventures and exploits, and his ideas and approach to training (which was very strict in those days) make for entertaining reading.most of the material from my previous studies.<br />So although my main interest is not in pa kua I still found the book useful as an interesting review of the material, and as I said, may have picked up some things that might be useful in my present teaching and training in karate, kobudo weapons, and the knife.<br />If you're beginner to intermediate practitioner this is still a good book with much good information and I can highly recommend it. Also, the first chapter on Master Lu's adventures and exploits, and his ideas and approach to training (which was very strict in those days) make for entertaining reading.	2004-04-15
707116:US	45193257	R10K3ZGQMM0QVF	0375412883	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Very readable and enjoyable introduction	I just had a few brief comments on this book.<br />As there are already 371 reviews of this book I won't try to rehash the important details of the science behind string theory here, except to say that despite some remaining problems and issues that still need to be worked out, string theory seems the best way to me to unify all the intranuclear forces, electromagnetism, and gravitation. I'm not a physicist myself and don't claim that level of comprehension of the issues (being a neurobiologist, actually), but I'm excited by what's been achieved so far and think the final answers will likely come from something at least akin to string theory.<br />One interesting thing about string theory is that in contrast to other theoretical revolutions in physics such as Newton's theory of universal gravitation, quantum theory, and Einstein's special and general theories of relativity, which burst upon the physics scene and were accepted pretty much from the start, string theory had a quite inauspicious beginning and had to overcome numerous hurdles and problems before it finally became accepted.<br />I had one final comment, which was that I checked out at least a half-dozen other books intended for the general reader on string theory to try to find the best one before settling on Greene's book. It was a difficult choice since several of the other books looked very attractive also, and I'll probably go on to read some of them too at this point. But I thought Greene's was the best and so I bought his first. Also, I think his book had the best presentation of, not only of string theory, but membrane theory as well. Membrane theory is an important extension to string theory which explains how the vibrating strings interact with the various spatial dimensions. So overall, a very interesting and approachable introduction to these important, recent developments in theoretical physics.	2004-04-14
717989:US	45193257	RCTG6JNG7NUF0	158062961X	893026282	Everything Einstein Book (Everything Series)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Very readable &amp; informative	This is a very readable and enjoyable book about the great physicist. The easy-going but informative style is reminiscent of the &quot;Dummies&quot; series books which I'm a great fan of for their ability to impart a great deal of information painlessly and enjoyably. I learned many interesting things about Einstein the scientist and Einstein the man that I didn't know before, and I've read several other bio's of the great physicist. After providing some historical background on the scientific events that led up to Einstein's great discoveries, discussing the ideas of Ernst Mach, Helmholtz, Hertz, Planck and so on, the authors launch into a discussion of his most important contributions, which were the paper on the photoelectric effect, the special theory of relativity, and the general theory of relativity.<br />There is such a wealth of information and detail about both Einstein's scientific ideas and his public and personal life that it's difficult to summarize it all, but I'd like to mention a few of the more interesting things that I learned. Einstein's role as scientist, cultural icon, humanitarian, father, public speaker, and legendary and mythic genius are all discussed.<br />One interesting thing is that the book explodes one myth about Einstein, which is that he did poorly in the German gymnasium in everything but math and science. Actually he excelled in Latin and languages too, so contrary to the popular myth, he wasn't a total failure in the public schools. He did run into trouble with the form-master at the gym and graduated without a diploma, and in high school he was even less happy and threw fits so he could be declared mentally unstable by the family doctor so he could stay home from school. Despite this Einstein was reading Kant's ideas about epistemology and logic by the time he was 13. This also enabled him to avoid required military service. In college Einstein routinely skipped classes although he got caught up using his friend Marcel Grossman's notes. But Einstein still graduated at the bottom of his class.<br />Einstein's increasing discomfort with the conclusions of quantum theory such as the famous uncertainty principle led him to try to disprove it in a famous paper he authored with the younger David Bohm (who only recently passed away). His opposition to the theory despite all the evidence once led Oppenheimer to say, &quot;Einstein is cuckoo.&quot;<br />In addition to his more well-known contributions, I didn't know that Einstein had collaborated with fellow physicist Leo Szilard on the invention of a new refridgerator pump. The idea for the pump came from a famous but tragic incident in which an entire Berlin family was killed when the pump leaked toxic gases into their home. Einstein and Szilard set out to develop a safer pump using magnetic fields and coils and sold two of their designs to the Electrolux Co. Eventually they would hold 45 patents for three different models of the home refridgeration pump. Einstein developed a new type of compass, a hearing aid, and had a patent for an auto-exposure camera.<br />Einstein had more romantic dalliances that one might expect for such a cerebral man, and in some ways the most interesting part of the book, since I was already familiar with his scientific ideas from other books, was the section on what happened to his children and grandchildren. Hans Albert Einstein, his oldest son, became a civil engineer and was professor of civil engineering at U.C. Berkeley when he retired. He was an expert on the transportation of sediment by water and the process he developed is still in use today. Unlike the older son, the younger brother wasn't especially talented at math and science and prefered the humanities, but he suffered from depression and even schizophrenia his entire life, and after being looked after by his mother until she passed away, was placed in a mental institution where he lived the rest of his life. Lieserl, the daughter, is thought to have been put up for adoption since she was born before Einstein and Mileva were married because of the stigma of illegitimacy in those days. Although no-one really knows, she is thought to have died in childhood but nothing is really known of her life.<br />Of Einstein's two grandchildren by Hans, Bernard is a physicist and author and wrote a biography of his famous grandfather. The grandaughter Evelyn is a psychologist and cult-deprogrammer. Evelyn has another dubious distinction, which is that after Thomas Harvey autopsied Einstein's brain to see what was so special about it, she received a portion of it. Apparently, it was transported across country by automobile and resulted in a book entitled Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain, by Michael Paterniti. I don't know if the book is any good but with a title like that I'll have to look it up and see. But I can certainly recommend the present book for anyone interested in the life and ideas of the great physicist, and this would probably be the first book I'd recommend to someone who wanted to read up on Einstein.een put up for adoption since she was born before Einstein and Mileva were married because of the stigma of illegitimacy in those days. Although no-one really knows, she is thought to have died in childhood but nothing is really known of her life.<br />Of Einstein's two grandchildren by Hans, Bernard is a physicist and author and wrote a biography of his famous grandfather. The grandaughter Evelyn is a psychologist and cult-deprogrammer. Evelyn has another dubious distinction, which is that after Thomas Harvey autopsied Einstein's brain to see what was so special about it, she received a portion of it. Apparently, it was transported across country by automobile and resulted in a book entitled Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain, by Michael Paterniti. I don't know if the book is any good but with a title like that I'll have to look it up and see. But I can certainly recommend the present book for anyone interested in the life and ideas of the great physicist, and this would probably be the first book I'd recommend to someone who wanted to read up on Einstein.	2004-04-06
720279:US	45193257	R2L62V1GK565W0	0521644410	344305331	The 20-cm Schmidt-Cassegrain Telescope: A Practical Observing Guide	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent user's guide	As the author points out, the first economical 20 cm. S-C telescope by makers such as Celestron and Meade revolutionized amateur astronomy back in the 70's and 80's, and their influence is still being felt today. The telescope's design has many advantages over the competition, such as good portability, excellent control of optical distortions, and ease of use. The S-C telescope is distinguished by having a concave paraboloidal primary with a convex hyperboloidal secondary, compared to the Gregorian telescope with it's similarly paraboloidal primary but concave secondary, which produces an upright image, unlike the S-C which is inverted like most telescopes. The corrector plate on the front of the S-C corrects for spherical aberration.<br />This design is different from the little 3-inch Maksutov scopes from Questar. These use a hyperboloidal primary and secondary. The advantage to this arrangement is that the positive and negative surfaces act to cancel out various optical aberrations and distortions. My understanding is that the Celestron telescopes actually employ elliptical rather than paraboloidal optics, but anyway, tens of thousands of these scopes have proven their worth in the hands of new and experienced amateurs around the world for decades.<br />If you're an experienced amateur, many of the topics, especially on viewing various sky objects will already be familiar to you, but if you're a new amateur there is much good information here. The author starts out with a brief intro and history of the instrument and then proceeds to a discussion of how to get started in viewing using easy subjects such as the moon and planets, and then proceeds to more advanced and harder to locate subjects like nebulae, star clusters, double-stars, galaxies, and so on. For the intermediate and advanced amateur, there are chapters on special topics such as observing variable stars, asteroids, comets, and multiple Jovian eclipses.<br />The last half of the book has sections on some of the more modern accessories and topics aspects such as international networking, astrophotography, photometers, spectroscopy, televisions and image intensifiers. There is an extensive series of appendices on topics such as cleaning the corrector plate, how to align the polar axis, collimation of the S-C telescope, mount vibrations, a field operations packing checklist, astronomical nomenclature, and a list of dozens of the brightest stars and nearby stars.<br />The author's story about how he was the first person, using an amateur group of observers spread out over Arizona, to gather the necessary obsevational data to calculate the size of the asteroid Aglaja during it's occultation of a star, was interesting. And the section on astrophotography reminded me of my first experiences in that area in the early 70's using a 25 or 30-year old Exacta VX Thagee-Oresden camera. Overall this is an excellent user's and observer's guide that should be valuable to new and experienced observers alike.me of the more modern accessories and topics aspects such as international networking, astrophotography, photometers, spectroscopy, televisions and image intensifiers. There is an extensive series of appendices on topics such as cleaning the corrector plate, how to align the polar axis, collimation of the S-C telescope, mount vibrations, a field operations packing checklist, astronomical nomenclature, and a list of dozens of the brightest stars and nearby stars. <br />The author's story about how he was the first person, using an amateur group of observers spread out over Arizona, to gather the necessary obsevational data to calculate the size of the asteroid Aglaja during it's occultation of a star, was interesting. And the section on astrophotography reminded me of my first experiences in that area in the early 70's using a 25 or 30-year old Exacta VX Thagee-Oresden camera. Overall this is an excellent user's and observer's guide that should be valuable to new and experienced observers alike.	2004-04-04
732794:US	45193257	RXUAV4K6Q8OQ4	087011798X	743990610	The Craft of the Japanese Sword	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Best intro for the beginner	This is probably the best book in English ever written for learning how to understand and appreciate the Japanese sword. When this book first appeared almost 20 years ago, there was little detailed information in English outside of specialist journals and similar publications on how they were made, especially the details of the hand-forging, heat-treating, and tempering methods which are still being done today just as they were thousands of years ago.<br />By varying the carbon content and temperature of the forge, the smith can either add or remove carbon or oxygen from the steel to get the right carbon content in the finished blade (about 0.7 percent). I enjoyed reading about the tatara, or iron smelter, which wasn't invented in Japan but seems to have originated in Manchuria and then brought to Japan by way of China or Korea. It's during this phase that certain impurities such as sulphur are removed as slag and carbon is added to produce steel, although the resulting steel is still low quality as the distribution of carbon isn't uniform enough to produce a strong sword.<br />It was also fascinating to learn about how the hamon or temper line is created and made to appear (it marks the boundary between the hard martensite edge and the softer baenite), and the rediscovery of how to create the utsuri, which was highly prized on swords of the Bizen school but was lost for hundreds of years until just recently, and involves another change in the crystalline structure of the steel between the side and the back of the blade. I also learned how to appreciate the different crystal structures (nie and nioi) and textures that make up the appearance of the blade (jintetsu) and what to look for in a good sword. There is also a detailed discussion of the different types of hamon and which are preferred and prized.<br />Some of the details are humorous and ironic. I learned that a modern swordsmith can legally only make two swords a month. This is because the great smith Mayairi could only make two a month when they standardized on this more than half a century ago. But that's because Mayairi insisted on cutting up his charcoal by hand to make it uniformly fine with a scissors, which took up most of his time. Most smiths crush the charcoal and then use a sieve to select just the right size pieces for the forging process. But because Mayairi was the greatest smith of his time the law was based on his output and has never changed since. This has resulted in many smiths travelling to Taiwan or China to make extra swords for the export market during part of the year to increase their income, since they can't sell them in Japan.<br />There are also chapters on every phase of the sword-making process, including sharpening and polishing, the making of the habaki, the construction of the saya or scabbard and the other koshirae, or fittings such as the tsuba (guard), and so on. Just the polishing process itself can take two weeks and involve many different steps in terms of the sequence of polishing stones and polishing methods. Also almost all of the stones used are still natural, just like in the old days, some of which can cost thousands of dollars. Dozens of steps are involved as the polisher goes from the coarsest to the finest stones and to the final polishing of the sword. This is the phase during which the hamon can be brought out most strikingly, and the final lines of the sword defined. The polishing of the tip of the sword is a special step by itself, and the mune or back and the groove are actually burnished or rubbed rather than polished, using several different hardened, sharp needles.<br />The book begins with a brief history of the Japanese sword which covers the different types and styles and covering the characteristics of the five main schools of classical swordmaking, of which the Bizen and Soshu schools today are the most important and prized. The book is profusely illustrated with many photos and drawings of swords and the different aspects and features of the blades, and what they are called. All in all still a fine book on the Japanese sword which has become a modern classic.ifferent aspects and features of the blades, and what they are called. All in all still a fine book on the Japanese sword which has become a modern classic.	2004-03-25
738000:US	45193257	RMXKI1YYQRVL1	0071398759	690455565	Schaum's Easy Outline of Biochemistry	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Excellent outline and overview	This little review and outline packs a lot of information into only about 130 pages. This means it makes for fairly dense reading given the technical level but it's obviously intended for the biochem or serious student. The book consists of 15 chapters ranging from 5 to 20 pages in length, depending on the subject. Key concepts or facts are emphasized and often highlighted in dark gray boxes throughout the text, and some chapters include solved problems. A sampling of the chapter titles includes Proteins; Lipids and Membranes; Enzyme Catalysis and Kinetics; Carhohydrate Metabolism; the Citric Acid Cycle; Nitrogen Metabolism; and Gene Expression and Protein Synthesis.<br />There are about 100 illustrations ranging from graphs and tables to the usual molecular structures and also diagrams of more complex molelcular reactions that require several steps or mechanisms such as the elongation step of polypeptide synthesis, the metabolic pathways of beta oxidation, as well as illustrations of longer ones requiring many steps, like the citric acid cycle, the role of amino transferases and glutamate dehydrogenase in nitrogen metabolism, the urea cycle and metabolism, and others.<br />Overall this is a useful little book that is one of the most concise and informative presentations of the most important concepts in biochemistry that I've seen, and at only nine bucks the price is right too.	2004-03-21
739113:US	45193257	R3S6TV0UBFAHT1	0810945452	413589846	Super Vision: A New View of Nature	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Spectacular photo book	This is one of the most beautifully illustrated photo books I've ever seen. Ranging from the submicroscopic to the macroscopic and even cosmic in scale, the book presents hundreds of spectacular photos of different aspects of our world and universe. They range from the geometrical perfection of a matrix of metallic crystals, to the delicate tracery of a microbial colony, to amorphous, bloblike, and menacing looking cancer cells, to the graceful symmetry of a galaxy floating in the vastness of space.<br />Every photographic method you can think of is represented (including many I couldn't have thought of), including ordinary light photography, x-ray, infrared, plane-polarized, electron microscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, and a photo of Washington, D.C. using something called Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar.<br />In addition to size, the time scales range from subatomic particles that only last a few trillionths of a second to photos of distant galaxies whose light has been travelling for 14 billion years to reach earth. The text is also clear and concise and non-obtrusive and doesn't detract from the visual presentation of the photos. Overall a beautifully illustrated photo book just to browse encompassing the many wonders, young and old, big and small, and animate or inanimate, of our world.	2004-03-20
741213:US	45193257	R3RK3I7WB06TZT	0387915222	925336272	Instant Notes in Molecular Biology (Instant Notes Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding technical overview	This is an impressive book intended only for the serious student or major. I was quite pleased to find the book in my local Borders Books, although I would say it's significantly more technical than what most people would probably be looking for there. You'll need to have read at least one other introductory upper-division text or taken a course on cell biology or molecular biology to benefit from it. I have had that but as I am mainly a neurobiologist by training I was pretty rusty at this point and so I only understood about 1/2 of the book. :-)<br />That having been said, since the book is only about 300 pages you can use it to get a quick refresher or update on many topics as I did. Some of the topics were still familiar, such as basic DNA replication, the cell cycle, and recombination. But some of the more specialized topics weren't, such as the E. coli sigma 70 promoter, cosmids, YACS (yeast artificial chromosomes), and BACS, and RNA Pol III genes: 5S and tRNA transcription. There was also a section on oncogenes which is something I didn't know much about. The illustrations and diagrams are plentiful and are excellent too and really help supplement the text.	2004-03-18
742464:US	45193257	R3LTH6ZISXGUDH	2831513553	293385162	Berlitz: Spanish Grammar Handbook (Berlitz Language Handbook)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good little grammar	I note the problem the previous reviewer had with this book since he says it duplicates much of the material in the Spanish Verbs Handbook. I don't have that book, however, and so this wasn't a problem for me since I was mainly interested in a little standalone, knockabout grammar that I could keep in my car or tote with me. I use it for those idle moments when I need something to read and I can whip this little book out and improve my Spanish grammar a bit. This book isn't too expensive for that so it serves just fine in that regard.<br />I wanted to give a few details about the book. It's composed of 30 chapters or sections, broadly divided into the usual grammatical topics such as verbs, nouns, adjectives, determiners, pronouns, linking clauses, and so on. One nice feature is some of the terms that many of us may have forgotten are defined and discussed at the very beginning of the chapter. For example, we are reminded that a non-finite verb means it's not related to time, that the subjunctive relates to uncertainty, and that modal verbs relate to attitudes about action.<br />There are separate sections on governing verbs and which propositions govern which verbs, such as con, de, a, en, and por, with examples of which verbs go with which, and also a section on &quot;bare inifinitives,&quot; and impersonal or &quot;back-to-front&quot; verbs, a term I hadn't seen used before although I'm well aquainted with linguistics terminology. Also included are sections on types of verbs, such as regular, irregular, stem-changing verbs, accent changing verbs, &quot;g,&quot; &quot;cz,&quot; and &quot;oy&quot; changing verbs, and also a chapter showing various model verb tables.<br />The sections on nouns and the other parts of speech are equally detailed, and there is also a spelling and pronunciation guide and such useful info as numbers, telling time, and the calendar. Finally, the book is small enough to be portable most places and the binding is very flexible and not too stiff like a lot of small paperback language books and dictionaries whose bindings are too rigid and just crack after a while. The book uses a two-color scheme of white with yellow blocks of text for highlighting purposes. Overall a good little grammar book and at 11 bucks the price is right too.<br />A little footnote here, it was the great Maximilian Berlitz back in the mid-to-late 19th century who originated the now famous concept of teaching languages by means of more interesting and dynamic conversations based on practical, real-world situations, such as being at the airport, in the restaurant, out shopping, and so on, rather than the dull, boring rote memorization method that had been use probably since Greek and Roman and probably ancient Sumerian times.  Iin fact, we have Sumerian tablets over 4000 years old that describe the rote learning in the scribal schools :-) ).  Modern language teaching books and methods like these are taken for granted now but they constituted a true revolution in teaching and pedagogy 100 years ago.tiff like a lot of small paperback language books and dictionaries whose bindings are too rigid and just crack after a while. The book uses a two-color scheme of white with yellow blocks of text for highlighting purposes. Overall a good little grammar book and at 11 bucks the price is right too.<br />A little footnote here, it was the great Maximilian Berlitz back in the mid-to-late 19th century who originated the now famous concept of teaching languages by means of more interesting and dynamic conversations based on practical, real-world situations, such as being at the airport, in the restaurant, out shopping, and so on, rather than the dull, boring rote memorization method that had been use probably since Greek and Roman and probably ancient Sumerian times.  Iin fact, we have Sumerian tablets over 4000 years old that describe the rote learning in the scribal schools :-) ).  Modern language teaching books and methods like these are taken for granted now but they constituted a true revolution in teaching and pedagogy 100 years ago.	2004-03-17
749087:US	45193257	R25QY9WQED804O	0671700758	551499216	Psycho-Cybernetics, A New Way to Get More Living Out of Life	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Classic book that is still relevant today	I hadn't for decades thought about Dr. Maltz's classic of self-help literature until a few days ago when I was having one of those &quot;Where are they now?&quot; reveries about several authors, and for some reason his book popped into my head. Maltz's book was a forerunner of the esteem literature and movement of the 70s but in some ways was never surpassed in its simplicity and relevance.<br />Dr. Maltz noticed in his medical practice that a very small change in a person's physical appearance often produced dramatic and positive results in that person's personality as a result of their now having a more positive physical self-image, which led him to his idea of developing a positive sense of self-worth based on eliminating false ideas and values and other similar negative thoughts. Maltz believed that people could indeed take control of their minds and using a number of simple but useful techniques you could re-engineer your own attitudes and beliefs and in the process become a happier and mentally healthier person.<br />Maltz's message is even more relevant today in a culture that if anything is even more appearance-obsessed than it was back then. The mass media's constant barrage of image-conscious messages is even more relentless now and his advice is as useful an antidote against such negative propaganda and a shallow and superficial culture that values appearance over substance as it was 40 years ago. Overall, still a classic in the field that is just as relevant today as it was four decades ago.	2004-03-12
749656:US	45193257	R1G4Q6D548I1PM	019514581X	706876548	Philosophy of Mind: Classical and Contemporary Readings	Books	5	14	48	N	N	Outstanding collection of papers	This is an outstanding collection of papers, the most comprehensive probably ever published, on the issues relating to the philosophy of mind. They range from classical considerations such as the Cartesion dichotomy to modern analytical philosophy. They're really too diverse to summarize here, but if you already have a background in the subject, this book would be a great way to get up to date on what's going on.<br /><br />This is an area I've worked in myself, and I thought I'd add a few more of my own comments to the debate, by way of considering a certain proposition. This is the statement that \\"You cannot know who you are and be who you are simultaneously.\\" I owe the Canadian philosopher, Stephen Garvey, for this fascinating question, and he did the very interesting thing of opening up a \\"philosophy competition\\" to debate this proposition on a website he created expressly for this purpose. My background is both in philosophy and psychobiology, and so I would like to consider this proposition in the the light of that information.<br /><br />Although it may be difficult to overcome this proposition, I don't see that the statements that we cannot know who we are and be who we are simultaneously are necessarily mutually exclusive.<br /><br />Because of the existence of the condition \\"at the same time,\\" this proposition really has three parts, not just two. If we can in fact know who we are at certain moments in time, and be who we are at certain moments in time, but these moments are contiguous but not overlapping, then we have achieved two of the three conditions. Then the only issue that remains is the one of simultaneity.<br /><br />If it is thought that this is in fact the case, then the problem really comes down to a matter of the temporal exclusivity of the two main statements, and whether this one issue can in fact be overcome.<br /><br />However, if we concede that being is a constant as long as we are alive, and that it cannot be isolated into discrete moments of time, then in that case, the condition of simultaneity can be removed for the statement \\"be who we are\\" since our being is not simultaneous with anything, it is simply continuous or a constant. If this is conceded, then the proposition is overcome if one can attain knowledge of one's self or who we are at any point during our existence.<br /><br />In regard to the above, Garvey asked, \\"What is behind our knowing that allows us to know who we are without being who we are? How can we know, eat, or walk without being who we are?\\" I don't think that is possible either. However, even if it is conceded that knowledge, and perhaps even the knowledge of who we are, is not a constant and may be fragmentary or isolated in time, this is not a problem if it can be demonstrated that we can know who we are at any point in time (no matter how infinitesimally small) while we exist, which as we have concluded, is a constant.<br /><br />Therefore, if during a typical lifetime of 70 years or so (a period comprised of approximately 2.2 billion seconds) we are able to know who we are for even a second, or even a millisecond during that period, we shall know who we are and be who we are simultaneously, and the proposition is overcome.<br /><br />Then the problem really comes down to what is acceptable proof of the knowledge of who we are. Garvey pointed out that this is really a matter of knowing who we are either as what we know or knowledge as form, and the temporal exclusivity argument from the standpoint of being as a temporal constant. Since we have conceded being is a constant, there is nothing inherent in being itself that precludes the possibility of knowing who we are and being who we are simultaneously.<br /><br />Therefore, is there anything in knowing who we are that precludes it from being simultaneous with being who we are? If it is conceded that it is not then we are now much closer to overcoming the proposition.<br /><br />Anyway, just a few comments of my own onthe thorny problem of the mind-brain question that are appropos of the subject of the current book.f the current book.	2004-03-11
750477:US	45193257	R3GIIPQUPQAHDO	0804830274	236419966	Japan's Ultimate Martial Art: Jujitsu Before 1882 the Classical Japanese Art of Self-Defense	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Excellent history and discussion	I'm surprised I'm the first person to review this book. This book discusses classical Japanese jiu-jitsu, presenting the history of the art as it can best be reconstructed, along with many illustrations and discussions of the techniques. Just as with the approximately 200-300 schools of swordsmanship that existed between 1000 A.D. and the mid-1800's, when they went into decline (with only about 15 surviving today), there were many styles also of jiu-jitsu, often associated with a particular martial art tradition that included training in the yari (spear), naginata (halberd), the bow, and various other weapons, but most importantly, the sword, as in the famous Kashima-Shinryu style that Karl Friday has capably discussed in his scholarly book, Legacies of the Sword.<br />Here Craig attempts to do the same thing for jiu-jitsu and I think succeeds very well. Except for articles in various martial arts journals, there is no book accessible to the general reader that deals with this important topic. Overall, a fine book with much valuable information that should be of interest to martial artists with an interest in the old school or koryu Japanese arts.	2004-03-11
750925:US	45193257	R1BEF9AWETVTPA	0521017084	688323094	Scientific Method in Practice	Books	5	19	39	N	N	Excellent discussion and overview	This book provides an excellent introduction to the theory and practice of scientific method. Basic concepts and procedures are discussed ranging from the role of experiment, probability, and statistics to the nature and structure of hypothesis and theory. Appropos of that topic, I thought I'd discuss somemore concepts related to that here. Specifically, I recently came across a discussion of the &#34;structure of science&#34; and how that differs from pseudoscience and non-science activities. But just exactly what does &#34;structure&#34; mean in regard to science?<br /><br />First of all, the word 'structure' is much too general and doesn't really mean much by itself. However, if we take it to mean the actual structure and nature of theory building in a particular discipline and also the scientific method actually employed, we are getting somewhere, as even the physical sciences differ more than one might think, even in regard to something as seemingly basic as scientific methodology, and we can contrast and compare them with regard to these two requirements very easily.<br /><br />But in order to determine and compare their differences, we will need a couple of basic definitions. First, what is science and what is scientific method? A good starting position is that science is a combination of at least two things--the hypothetico-deductive method combined with some sort of empirical validation. Notice I say &#34;empirical&#34; and not &#34;experimental,&#34; since this will come up later. A stronger definition would require some form of experimental validation, such as what occurs in experimental physics and experimental psychology. A good basic definition of the experimental method is that it consists of systematic variation under controlled conditions in order to determine causal relationships. So a scientific discipline could be said to be one that meets these two criteria. So far so good.<br /><br />The problem with this definition, although it is almost universally accepted, is that even among the physical sciences, there are interesting exceptions. For example, take the science of planetary astronomy. No-one can start and stop the planets in their orbits to make experiments, and yet no-one doubts astronomy is a science, because it can make predictions about eclipses down to the second that are valid, and yet planetary astronomy seems to lack one important aspect of science. Hence, astronomy is an empirical rather than an experimental discipline. But it's still considered a science since it produces models that make very accurate and verifiable predictions about reality, and there is no better test of a science that its ability to make accurate predictions on the basis of observations. (Also, anybody who thinks planetary astronomy isn't a real science should try picking up a textbook on something known as Lagrangian Mechanics).<br /><br />This implies that a better definition of science is the ability to make and validate predictions. This is not a bad idea, and is basically the definition of a theory. There is a lot of confusion about what a theory is in science, but if you keep that one criterion in mind, you can't go far wrong. Occasionally you will see it said that theories differ from hypotheses in being more complex and broader in scope, but although this might be true sometimes, this isn't a really a true distinction between hypothesis and theory. The only real difference between a theory and a hypothesis is that a theory has been tested more times and has more experimental validation, and so greater confidence is therefore placed in it.<br /><br />But getting back to the our discussion of comparative differences in theory construction and method, we run into further problems when we come to the historical sciences, which include disciplines such as historical geology, many areas of psychology, and many areas of biology. But first, we need a definition of historical versus non-historical science. A good definition is that sciences like physics and chemistry are concerned with phenomena controlled by presumably universal natural systems that are non-historical, that is, independent of the time at which they operate. However, biological organisms and even the earth itself are historical entities whose characteristics may change through time, and whose workings may depend on historical laws that are not unchangeable and invariant, as in physics. This is the difference between historical and non-historical science.<br /><br />So now let's consider the situation in historical geology. Instead of the deductive prediction of future events from known, present causes, it turns the scientifc method on its head to become inductive inference of ancient causes from their historical results. Hence, historical geology doesn't appear to be a science in the usual sense, and yet nobody doubts that it is indeed a real science, because, well, basically because it works, and no-one is too worried about its rather strange logic and methodology.<br /><br />I could go on further about this, but this is a pretty long review already and will do for a basic discussion of the topic of how several of the sciences differ in regard to their theoretical structures and scientific methods. There is another distinction one could make, say, between the mathematical sciences and statistical sciences because there we find differences in a science's ability to connect causes and effects reliably, with the difference being one of deterministic versus probabilistic causation, but as this is already a longer review than I intended, as I said, I will stop here. I hope you found my little discussion of the nature of theory and structure in science useful.concerned with phenomena controlled by presumably universal natural systems that are non-historical, that is, independent of the time at which they operate. However, biological organisms and even the earth itself are historical entities whose characteristics may change through time, and whose workings may depend on historical laws that are not unchangeable and invariant, as in physics. This is the difference between historical and non-historical science.  So now let's consider the situation in historical geology. Instead of the deductive prediction of future events from known, present causes, it turns the scientifc method on its head to become inductive inference of ancient causes from their historical results. Hence, historical geology doesn't appear to be a science in the usual sense, and yet nobody doubts that it is indeed a real science, because, well, basically because it works, and no-one is too worried about its rather strange logic and methodology.  I could go on further about this, but this is a pretty long review already and will do for a basic discussion of the topic of how several of the sciences differ in regard to their theoretical structures and scientific methods. There is another distinction one could make, say, between the mathematical sciences and statistical sciences because there we find differences in a science's ability to connect causes and effects reliably, with the difference being one of deterministic versus probabilistic causation, but as this is already a longer review than I intended, as I said, I will stop here. I hope you found my little discussion of the nature of theory and structure in science useful.	2004-03-10
751367:US	45193257	R3CDTPIVOEXOML	0940322064	166402917	The Mystery of Consciousness	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Excellent discussion of the issues	I'm almost in complete agreement with Searle on his position that the mind depends completely on the brain and that the dichotomy between mind and brain in philosophy is false. Although one must be careful not to subscribe to a simple mind/brain psychophysical isomorphism, nevertheless, it is quite obvious at this point as a result of the research of the last 75 years in the brain sciences that the mind depends on, and results from, brain mechanisms and processes.<br />In this book, Searle discusses and critiques the work of a number of theorists and makes numerous observations related to these points, and I thought I'd add a few more. So I'll just make a few observations about the neuroscience for the road, since that's my specialty, including some interesting work related to the clinical side, since some of it is quite fascinating (especially the \\"orgasmotronic people\\" I discuss at the end). :-)<br />The first area I'd like to discuss relates to the area of emotions and specifically mood disorders, which has focused on the neurochemical and serotonin and dopaminergic issues, especially since these chemicals have a profound influence on the limbic system areas and the areas they connect with, such as the temporal, frontal, and prefrontal cortex. The limbic system is an older area of the mammalian brain that has profound effects on emotional behavior and many aspects of personality. It is well established that chemical imbalances and/or damage, such as through trauma and stroke and so on, can cause various syndromes, ranging from mood and emotional disorders to cognitive deficiencies. We still have a lot to learn about this, but the basic chemical pathways have been worked out. For example, deficits in long-term motivation (which many people have) have been found to be associated with the nerve pathways connecting the prefrontal cortex and the limbic system.<br />Another avenue of research that looks promising relates to schizophrenia, which is that what we call \\"consciousness\\" actually results from the integration of separate and diverse brain areas acting in concert, and that when this integration becomes impaired, there are problems. Of course, it remains to be seen if can be treated some way, but again, our understanding of the possible mechanism is continuing to progress.<br />Another example of how our emotional life depends on the brain is the finding that 70% of death-row inmates have been found to have abnormal EEGs and brain waves emanating from the amygdala, another important structure in the limbic system. The amygdala is involved in aggressive and even homicidal behavior. In one famous case, a formerly quiet, unassuming man developed an amygdalar tumor and shot 17 people and wounded 30 others before he was stopped. There are now drugs that treat abnormal electrical activity in the brain, and the hope is that someday they may even be able to detect and prevent situations like this.<br />For another fascinating example, take homosexuality, which many people still think is a form of psychopathology. Freud said it was because the boy didn't have a strong father figure, and so doesn't know better. For years homosexuals were treated with psychoanalysis with no effect. Then about 20 years ago, a scientist at Caltech made the amazing discovery that heterosexuals and homosexuals had different neurochemical and anatomical characteristics in one of the limbic areas known as the neurosecretory zone of the preoptic hypothalamic nucleus. In fact, he was able to get animals to display either heterosexual or homosexual behavior by diffusing neurosynaptic chemicals into the preoptic area. So much for the Freudian theory. This research proves that this aspect of our behavior is due entirely to how are brains are wired from birth, and has nothing to do with old notions of psychopathology.<br />One of the most fascinating cases I came across was a number of people who had been perfectly normal, but had recently become almost complete\\"vegetables\\" and had to be hospitalized. At least so they seemed on the surface. There was nothing wrong with them cognitively, they still had normal reasoning ability and could talk and socialize if they wanted to. They just had no interest in it. They progressively lost interest in their famlies, jobs, friends, everything, and eventually had to be hospitalized.<br />It was discovered that these people had developed an epileptic seizure focus in the orgasm center in the brain. If I remember right, it had the tongue-twisting name of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. In any case, it was in one of the somatosensory processing areas in the thalamus, which is a structure just below the cortex but above the limbic system. Although this is technically a form of epilepsy, there are no convulsions associated with this syndrome (just as there aren't in the case of temporal-lobe epilepsy, which, since it occurs in the memory and associational area of the brain, can produce intense visions and memories, as well as emotional states).<br />Now it was obvious why these people weren't interested in anything else in their lives. They had orgasms that went on for several minutes, and due to the intensity of the electrical discharge, were probably 10 to 100 times as intense as a normal person's orgasms. And they kept having them. Especially the women patients said it was better than anything they could experience before. So they just sat there, waiting, yearning, hoping, for that next \\"seizure.\\"<br />Anyway, just a few more interesting things to consider relating to our knowledge of the mind and brain. The above facts amply illustrate and further support Searle's theory that the mind is a function of the brain and that the  classical mind/brain dichotomy is false.e \\"vegetables\\" and had to be hospitalized. At least so they seemed on the surface. There was nothing wrong with them cognitively, they still had normal reasoning ability and could talk and socialize if they wanted to. They just had no interest in it. They progressively lost interest in their famlies, jobs, friends, everything, and eventually had to be hospitalized.<br />It was discovered that these people had developed an epileptic seizure focus in the orgasm center in the brain. If I remember right, it had the tongue-twisting name of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. In any case, it was in one of the somatosensory processing areas in the thalamus, which is a structure just below the cortex but above the limbic system. Although this is technically a form of epilepsy, there are no convulsions associated with this syndrome (just as there aren't in the case of temporal-lobe epilepsy, which, since it occurs in the memory and associational area of the brain, can produce intense visions and memories, as well as emotional states).<br />Now it was obvious why these people weren't interested in anything else in their lives. They had orgasms that went on for several minutes, and due to the intensity of the electrical discharge, were probably 10 to 100 times as intense as a normal person's orgasms. And they kept having them. Especially the women patients said it was better than anything they could experience before. So they just sat there, waiting, yearning, hoping, for that next \\"seizure.\\"<br />Anyway, just a few more interesting things to consider relating to our knowledge of the mind and brain. The above facts amply illustrate and further support Searle's theory that the mind is a function of the brain and that the  classical mind/brain dichotomy is false.	2004-03-10
751577:US	45193257	R3C67UAP602PXH	1840460849	218632407	Introducing Mind & Brain	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Clear and concise book on difficult area	The area of the mind and brain is a difficult one to present to the non-specialist, since on the one hand, it requires an understanding of traditional philosophical areas like epistemology, and modern scientific areas such as perception, psychophysics, and neurobiology. This makes it a formidable area to try to read and get some background in for the layman, but there is no more fascinating and important subject than the understanding of our own minds, brains, and selves, and yet few people, even those trained in the sciences, have a knowledge of it.<br />This book presents this difficult and technical area in a clear, concise and even engaging and witty way, using a cartoon-like style to illustrate and elaborate on the concepts of the text. If there is an easier way to get a basic grasp of the issues I haven't seen it, and I enjoyed reading this book although this is my own specialty and I can read the more technical literature too, because it gave me many ideas about how to explain the concepts better myself in my own conversations with people.<br />I just wanted to make one other comment. A long-standing and still controversial issue in the mind-brain field is the problem of psychophysical reductionism. This is the idea that the mind can ultimately be reduced to the actions of individual neurons, and to brain physiology in general. Although there is now a great amount of research to support this idea now, I didn't want to discuss idea so much as  people's usual reactions to it.<br />The main problem here is that as human beings we seem to have an aversion to being reduced to our biology, as if this makes us some sort of machine, or at least a \\"biological machine.\\" For many people, our new understanding of the brain doesn't seem to leave much room for phenomena such as consciousness, let alone the soul. Human beings are a very creative and resourceful species. Our imaginations take flight so easily, both as individuals and as a species, that we shudder at the thought that the mind can be reduced to mere matter, to \\"ordinary\\" biology.<br />This biology, however, is far from \\"ordinary.\\" Your brain contains 60 trillion neurons, which are connected to anywhere from 3,000 to 100,000 other neurons. This is a lot of interconnections. To calculate how many connections this is, is very interesting. Mathematically, this is known as a \\"combinatorial explosion\\" problem because of the large numbers generated.<br />In practical terms, this means that the number of interconnections in a human brain is greater than the number of atoms in the Milky Way galaxy, which contains 80 billion stars. Another way of saying it is that your brain is the equivalent of millions of the most powerful computer chips. Your brain is thousands, probably millions, of times more complex than the most powerful computer we can build-- not bad for a blob of \\"mere matter\\" that weighs only 3 pounds.<br />This having been said, is it really so bad to have one's consciousness reduced to neuronal mechanisms?\\"<br />Anyway, I just wanted to make a few comments on that, since it's relevant to the subject of this book. Overall, this is a fine introductory book on the mind-body problem that should give you the background to undertake more technical books in the area.ght that the mind can be reduced to mere matter, to \\"ordinary\\" biology.<br />This biology, however, is far from \\"ordinary.\\" Your brain contains 60 trillion neurons, which are connected to anywhere from 3,000 to 100,000 other neurons. This is a lot of interconnections. To calculate how many connections this is, is very interesting. Mathematically, this is known as a \\"combinatorial explosion\\" problem because of the large numbers generated. <br />In practical terms, this means that the number of interconnections in a human brain is greater than the number of atoms in the Milky Way galaxy, which contains 80 billion stars. Another way of saying it is that your brain is the equivalent of millions of the most powerful computer chips. Your brain is thousands, probably millions, of times more complex than the most powerful computer we can build-- not bad for a blob of \\"mere matter\\" that weighs only 3 pounds.<br />This having been said, is it really so bad to have one's consciousness reduced to neuronal mechanisms?\\"<br />Anyway, I just wanted to make a few comments on that, since it's relevant to the subject of this book. Overall, this is a fine introductory book on the mind-body problem that should give you the background to undertake more technical books in the area.	2004-03-10
751600:US	45193257	R3LHQN4GVRJ251	4770023529	706847122	A Dictionary of Japanese Particles (A Kodansha Dictionary) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	41	49	N	N	Great book on Japanese particles	In some ways, particles are the key to Japanese grammar, which are one of the many ways Japanese differs from Indo-European languages like English. As the author points out, someone can have a very good grasp of nouns and verb conjugations in Japanese, and yet without particles, still can't construct a grammatical Japanese sentence. And by using two different particles, two sentences that are otherwise the same can be made to mean totally different things.<br /><br />The definition portion of the book discusses all the particle meanings, giving main as well as variant meanings. There are lots of example sentences, which are in both Roman transliteration and Japanese script. Another helpful aid is the 12 x 14 table of particles in blue in the front and end papers of the book, which is very convenient. At 340 pages long, there is a lot of material here considering it's not that expensive a book.<br /><br />In the grammar discussion section, the author shows why you just can't replace the prepositions in an English sentence with the particles in Japanese. For example, take the sentence, \\"My mother and my father had dinner at a restaurant in Tokyo with a friend,\\" which is Watashi NO haha TO chichi WA tomodachi TO issho NI tookyoo NO resuturan DO yuushoku O tabe-mashita in Japanese (the particles are in all caps). This sentence contains 8 particles serving various functions and only two prepositions, so obviously they aren't equivalent.<br /><br />Particles can serve many different functions, ranging from altering the meaning of the verb to functions that resemble case-marking in Indo-European and other Ural- Altaic languages. The Negara particle indicates that the action described by the verb it follows is being carried out at the same time as another action is taking place. The English approximation is \\"while doing\\" or \\"also doing,\\" as in Boku WA ongaku o, kiki negara doraibu o shita, which means, \\"I was listening to music while I drove.\\"<br /><br />Other interesting particles include Tara, which indicates the subject or topic of the sentence, similar to the case marking in so-called Active languages, as opposed to the Nominative-Accusative pattern in English in most Indo-European languages, or the Ergative-Absolutive pattern found in Eskimo, Caucasian languages, south Pacific island and Austronesian languages, and so on. (Basque is also an ergative language, but is the only one in Europe that is.) Then there is the Nite particle, which is placed after a noun of location, which shows where an action took place. This also seems similar to the locative case in many languages, although technically Japanese lacks cases. To give one final example, the TO particle performs a listing function and is used when naming things in succession.<br /><br />Since Japanese has no case structure and all but two of the verbs are completely regular, Japanese lacks many of the difficulties encountered in other languages. Compared to Indo-European patterns, it isn't very rich in verb forms that deal with time, and it even lacks a true future tense (which Latin does too, interestingly enough). However, it makes up for this in it's variety of modal constructions which indicate the speaker's attitude toward the subject, possibility, probability, conditionality, and so on, and in the complex particle system. This book will help you master this extremely important aspect of Japanese grammar.icates the subject or topic of the sentence, similar to the case marking in so-called Active languages, as opposed to the Nominative-Accusative pattern in English in most Indo-European languages, or the Ergative-Absolutive pattern found in Eskimo, Caucasian languages, south Pacific island and Austronesian languages, and so on. (Basque is also an ergative language, but is the only one in Europe that is.) Then there is the Nite particle, which is placed after a noun of location, which shows where an action took place. This also seems similar to the locative case in many languages, although technically Japanese lacks cases. To give one final example, the TO particle performs a listing function and is used when naming things in succession.    Since Japanese has no case structure and all but two of the verbs are completely regular, Japanese lacks many of the difficulties encountered in other languages. Compared to Indo-European patterns, it isn't very rich in verb forms that deal with time, and it even lacks a true future tense (which Latin does too, interestingly enough). However, it makes up for this in it's variety of modal constructions which indicate the speaker's attitude toward the subject, possibility, probability, conditionality, and so on, and in the complex particle system. This book will help you master this extremely important aspect of Japanese grammar.	2004-03-10
751806:US	45193257	R1KLIIUVCOODE6	0195156307	66254739	The Executive Brain: Frontal Lobes and the Civilized Mind	Books	5	21	32	N	N	A few miscellaneous comments	This is an excellent book on the brain focusing on the most advanced area of our brains, the cerebral cortex, specifically, the frontal lobes. The frontal lobes are interesting in that, in contrast to the other parts of the cortex, they play a role in complex and higher aspects of personality and behavior as opposed to language, spatial and mathematical analysis, and abstract thought. Drawing from a variety of sources ranging from current brain theory to neurological case studies, the author shows how the frontal lobes are involved in almost every aspect of our daily lives, from normal social interaction to specific behaviors like long-term achievement motivation (which the infamous lobotomy operation eliminates, rather than having an effect on the person's intelligence, as in the popular misconception) to simple prioritizing of tasks and even anti-social and criminal behavior.<br />I just have one other comment about this, although not the specific focus of the book, but much of this information has relevance to the classical philosophical issue of the mind-body problem, and I thought I would make a few comments on that.<br />Although we may not understand consciousness at the neuronal level very well yet, this doesn't mean that someday consciousness won't be completely reduced to a neuronal explanation. Even if complete reductionism is unattainable, it still seems an unavoidable conclusion that consciousness must depend on the brain as a result of studies based on many areas, of which I will only mention one here: those related to the study of brain damage, many examples of which get discussed in this book.<br />For example, it is easy to demonstrate that as a result of certain degenerative brain diseases and syndromes, neurons in different parts of the brain begin to deteriorate and die off. Eventually, the person becomes extremely impaired intellectually, and ultimately, consciousness itself fades away into nothing.<br />This progressive deterioration of the mind and consciousness as the brain cells die off, with the degree of impairment being proportional to the degree of brain damage, provides powerful evidence that the brain is behind these phenomena, despite our current inability to arrive at a complete explanation. In fact, it seems impossible to reconcile them in any other way.<br />If the physiology and anatomy of the brain are not behind the mind and consciousness, then how are the above facts to be explained?\\"<br />On the contrary, since without the brain the sense organs cannot function, the body cannot perform its work, and the mind in all of its many aspects, including consciousness, completely disappears, the brain itself has to be the basis for it.<br />Furthermore, although we can't explain fully how consciousness arises from neuronal mechanisms, this doesn't mean we don't know where it is in the brain. In fact, we can localize it to a particular area. This is the cerebral cortex itself. In Greek, cortex means \\"bark,\\" or thin layer, and that is exactly what it is. The human cerebral cortex is only a few millimeters thick, but without it, there is no consciousness, no lower or higher mental or cognitive functions, no language capability, and no personality as we know it. Remove this thin sheet of neurons, and what remains in a human being is only very primitive vegetative and physiological functions such as thirst, hunger, fear, and basic motor functions. However, even motor control in a human is irreparably damaged, resulting in a condition known as \\"decerebrate rigidity,\\" where the skeletal muscles become excessively rigid and inflexible.<br />Recent research shows that consciousness is the result of processes and mechanisms occurring in diverse and separate parts of the cortex which have to be coordinated in time for consciousness to occur. In other words, there is no one area in the cortex or the brain in which consciousness resides, and it is actually composed of many different components, in contrast toclassical philosophical models which saw consciousness as a simple, monolithic, indivisable construct or phenomenon.<br />Anyway, just a few thoughts on the subject of mind-brain dualism, and why the traditional dichotomy in philosophy is so wrong-headed and false.o classical philosophical models which saw consciousness as a simple, monolithic, indivisable construct or phenomenon.<br />Anyway, just a few thoughts on the subject of mind-brain dualism, and why the traditional dichotomy in philosophy is so wrong-headed and false.	2004-03-10
751833:US	45193257	R21QFNXCSUYUA2	0804831815	893277106	The Secrets of Cabales Serrada Escrima (Secrets of Series)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A few comments on this controversial book	Despite the controversial and critical reviews of this book, I found it useful in learning about some of the history and background of grandmaster Cabales, and also the techniques of Cabales Escrima. I can't comment on the criticisms posted here on Wiley's book, as I'm not primarily an escrimador, being mainly a karate, kobudo, and iaido practitioner. However, I've trained in the Philippine stick arts too and I was just looking for a book that could provide some basic history on the art in addition to what I already knew.<br /><br />The first few chapters are a brief bio of master Cabales, from his boyhood in the Philippines to his eventual arrival in the states, and his opening up the first Escrima school in the U.S. It was interesting to read about master Cabales's early training experiences and his teacher, F. Dizon, the origins of the first Doce Pares organization (which Wiley claims precedes by over a hundred years the current organization under the Canete family), and other interesting bits of history. After many years of working odd jobs everywhere from the Tondo docks in Manila to Alaska, master Cabales finally settled in Stockton, where he stayed the rest his life, founded the first Escrima school, and saw his art spread from a small inland valley school in California to dozens of countries and thousands of students around the world.<br /><br />The following chapters are written by students and instructors who were close to master Cabales and who relate their training experiences with him, and the last half of the book is devoted to actual techniques. These show the basic strikes, blocks, disarms, and wrist and armlocks. I enjoyed these chapters too, although the problem with books on the martial arts these days is that you can get video tapes that are excellent on literally hundreds of martial arts which show the art far better than the static photos in books. I myself have dozens of tapes by a number of masters on various styles of Escrima and other Pacific Rim arts that are far better than the photos in any book. Nevertheless, since the book basically combines a brief history and biography of the master, a number of personal memoirs of the master, and a presentation of the basic technical aspects of the art, I didn't mind that too much.<br /><br />Now not only is Cabales Escrima well established in the U.S. but a number of other Pacific Rim arts as well, including Filipino and Indonesian Kuntao, other Filipino styles and arts such as Pekiti Tersia, Lameco Escrima, Kali Illustrisimo, Kaji Kali, Bakbakan Kali, Arnis, Panajakman, Panantukan, Sikaran, and a number of styles of Indonesian Pentjak-Silat, such as Serak or Sera, Tongkat, Cikalong, Cidepok, Mande Muda, Bukti-Negara, several styles of Cimande, Suci Hati, Perisai Diri, and some others I'm no doubt forgetting. I've studied Kali Ilustrisimo, Inayan Escrima, Ted LucayLucay's style of escrima, Serak Silat, and Wagi Kali Silat myself, and enjoy them very much although they're not my main focus as a martial artist, as I said. But I've certainly learned to appreciate the Philippine and Indonesian arts more, which are truly great martial arts themselves, and I think it's great they're finally getting the recognition they deserve, although it looks like the Escrima world has the same political problems as the rest of the martial arts.<br /><br />However the controversy surrounding this book plays out, it's amazing to consider that a once obscure art only about 20 years ago is now an international phenomenon with hundreds of instructors in the U.S. and many more overseas. Angel Cabales's Serrada Escrima has perhaps had the greatest influence of all and I hope his and the many other fine Filipino stick arts continue to grow and prosper.are far better than the photos in any book. Nevertheless, since the book basically combines a brief history and biography of the master, a number of personal memoirs of the master, and a presentation of the basic technical aspects of the art, I didn't mind that too much.    Now not only is Cabales Escrima well established in the U.S. but a number of other Pacific Rim arts as well, including Filipino and Indonesian Kuntao, other Filipino styles and arts such as Pekiti Tersia, Lameco Escrima, Kali Illustrisimo, Kaji Kali, Bakbakan Kali, Arnis, Panajakman, Panantukan, Sikaran, and a number of styles of Indonesian Pentjak-Silat, such as Serak or Sera, Tongkat, Cikalong, Cidepok, Mande Muda, Bukti-Negara, several styles of Cimande, Suci Hati, Perisai Diri, and some others I'm no doubt forgetting. I've studied Kali Ilustrisimo, Inayan Escrima, Ted LucayLucay's style of escrima, Serak Silat, and Wagi Kali Silat myself, and enjoy them very much although they're not my main focus as a martial artist, as I said. But I've certainly learned to appreciate the Philippine and Indonesian arts more, which are truly great martial arts themselves, and I think it's great they're finally getting the recognition they deserve, although it looks like the Escrima world has the same political problems as the rest of the martial arts.     However the controversy surrounding this book plays out, it's amazing to consider that a once obscure art only about 20 years ago is now an international phenomenon with hundreds of instructors in the U.S. and many more overseas. Angel Cabales's Serrada Escrima has perhaps had the greatest influence of all and I hope his and the many other fine Filipino stick arts continue to grow and prosper.	2004-03-10
752328:US	45193257	R1CKXQXQ937XHB	1840460571	677131740	Introducing Quantum Theory	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Great little book	I already had the Introducing Logic book, which I thought was excellent, so I thought I'd try this one too in the series. I certainly never thought I'd see a book on quantum physics that was as good as this one done in such a cartoon-like style. I really liked the Introducting Logic book, and I wasn't disappointed with this one either. It presents the many strange and even paradoxical phenomena of quantum physics in a clear and concise way, and the illustrations are a fun and amusing way of keeping the reader's attention while helping to further the reader's understanding of the concepts. Even presented in such an engaging way, however, they're still not easy. Quantum physics is just not very intuitive and you just have to get used to that fact, but this book will give you a basic understanding of the area without too much cognitive anguish and serious brain strain.<br /><br />After reading this book, if you're interested in further material, the late, great Richard Feynman's book, QED, is still the best introduction for the non-specialist. It contains almost no math and Feynman uses mainly spatial concepts to illustrate and explain quantum electrodynamics in a less mathematical, more intuitive way with his usual wit, enthusiasm, and style. The concepts are explained clearly and concisely in a way that is accessible to the layman and non-physicist. After reading this book, if you're interested in a more mathematical treatment, I would recommend the R.I.G. Hughes book, The Structure and Interpretation of Quantum Theory. It uses a little calculus, but mostly sticks to presenting the mathematics of quantum linear algebra, vector spaces, tensors, and matrix theory as developed by David Hilbert specifically for use in quantum mechanics. It's much more technical than Feynman's book but will give you a much better understanding of quantum mechanics in terms of the mathematical theory.	2004-03-10
755758:US	45193257	R3BZ8FZ35SN3QJ	4770023839	390633638	Total Stick Fighting: Shintaido Bojutsu (Bushido--The Way of the Warrior)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Useful book on Shintaido style	In an age of cheap video you have to wonder why people are even still doing martial arts books with static photos that don't really convey the art very well, and this is especially problematic for the weapons arts. Furthermore, when you consider that most martial arts videos cost about $30 new and the price for this book is about the same, and that all this material would easily fit on a 60-minute video tape, the purpose of such a book becomes even more moot.<br />That having been said, I still found this a useful book on the art of Shintaido. The photos are quite clear and the demonstrators seem to show excellent form, although there are subtle differences from the Okinawan kobudo that I'm more familiar with. This is a relatively new art founded in the 60s when the author found himself disatisfied with traditional bo training and decided to develop his own methods, which he says encourage more natural movement. This is hard to glean, as I said, from photos in books, but I was still able to get some idea about the style from the photos.<br />The book covers basic positions, strikes, blocks, several kata, kumibo (sparring) techniques, and nagewaza, or throwing techniques, which was the most interesting to me. The author says the system has about 50 but he only shows 15 in the book. I would be up for a more advanced book showing these techniques, but I suppose that would be a stretch. The author should really consider doing a video instead.<br />One final point is, as someone remarked earlier from the author's comment in the book, the style seems to be mostly focused on the art of handling the bo and getting intimate with its special capabilities and properties rather than practical combat, and the author encourages non-traditional types of activities such as throwing the bow in the air, playing catch with someone, and so on, in order to develop this sort of feel for the weapon. For someone already skilled in the bo arts or a Shintaido practitioner, this is fine, but if you're a non-expert looking for truly practical and combative stick art, there are better books out there. This book should be seen as a contribution to the bujutsu arts and culture rather than as a combative art per se, and in that regard it serves very well.if you're a non-expert looking for truly practical and combative stick art, there are better books out there. This book should be seen as a contribution to the bujutsu arts and culture rather than as a combative art per se, and in that regard it serves very well.	2004-03-07
756806:US	45193257	R10YK3E0VUPSIU	0393058549	20116327	The Random Walk Guide to Investing: Ten Rules for Financial Success	Books	4	18	29	N	N	Good book, except for one problem	I just had a few comments to make.<br />Malkiel is famous for his position that no-one can beat the stock market over the long term. The evidence for this is so sobering that I won't repeat much of it here, since it's now so well known--such as 90% of the mutual fund managers failing to beat the indexes year after year. Also, managed funds vs. index funds have higher expense ratios, which further lessons their performance since those costs are passed on to the customer. This is certainly a potent argument in favor of investing in index funds that track various things, such as growth stocks, high tech, or the broad market.<br />However, there is one major problem with Burton's argument which he doesn't discuss in the book that I could recall. Burton's data refers to mutual funds, which typically buy many stocks. At its height, for example, the big Magellan fund owned 1400 stocks. The average mutual fund owns about 100 stocks, and many own more. The turnover can be as high as 75% a year or more, which further increases costs because of all the commissions.<br />The problem with needing to own that many stocks is that mutual funds often run out of top-quality picks, and then are forced to buy second or even third-tier stocks, which degrades their performance. This almost guarantees that there will be a regression to the mean in terms of overall performance of the sort Malkiel talks about. However, the small investor has no such limitation. He can cherry pick and create a top-quality portfolio without having to buy the less steller (or worse) stocks that would make your typical mutual fund manager green with envy.<br />The problem here, of course, is being able to ferret out the top quality stocks. Malkiel would point out that this approach isn't without its risks, either, since such a portfolio with a small number of stocks could lack diversification. However, there's a way to deal with that. If you had, say, $100,000 to devote to a portfolio of stocks, you would be adequately diversified if you bought 15-20 stocks and picked the best stock in different sectors, ranging from high-tech to low-tech such as retail. Some people find that this is too many stocks to track, and that 10-12 in different sectors is a good compromise that still offers good diversification without having to track so many stocks. This has been proven to be almost as effective a way to diversify as buying the overall market (the economist who developed this asset allocation theory won the Nobel Prize in econ some years back), but has the major advantage of not diluting the strength and quality of the portfolio with poorer stocks.<br />Since Burton is a financial economist I'm surprised he doesn't seem to be aware of this. If you didn't want to devote all your money to this strategy, you could still put half of it in index funds and then use the other half for this. Whichever way you decide to go, good luck and happy investing!dequately diversified if you bought 15-20 stocks and picked the best stock in different sectors, ranging from high-tech to low-tech such as retail. Some people find that this is too many stocks to track, and that 10-12 in different sectors is a good compromise that still offers good diversification without having to track so many stocks. This has been proven to be almost as effective a way to diversify as buying the overall market (the economist who developed this asset allocation theory won the Nobel Prize in econ some years back), but has the major advantage of not diluting the strength and quality of the portfolio with poorer stocks.<br />Since Burton is a financial economist I'm surprised he doesn't seem to be aware of this. If you didn't want to devote all your money to this strategy, you could still put half of it in index funds and then use the other half for this. Whichever way you decide to go, good luck and happy investing!	2004-03-06
758088:US	45193257	R93HZTRL2NCJR	1890536040	621367986	Koryu Bujutsu: Classical Warrior Traditions of Japan	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent & scholarly	Written by some of the leading western experts who studied for years in Japan, this is an excellent introduction to the ancient Koryu or old arts of Japan. The book focuses mainly on the weapons arts using the sword, yari (spear), naginata (halberd), and so on, but jujutsu and the grappling arts also get discussed. Some of these authors were familiar to me from their contributions to martial arts journals like Furyu or the online Electronic Journal of the Martial Arts, like Ellis Amdur. Meik Skoss, the husband of Diane, was part of Draeger's original research team that went to Indonesia that resulted in Draeger's books covering Pentjak-Silat and the other Indonesian bladed arts, so I had high expectations about the quality and depth of the articles, and I wasn't disappointed.<br />As far as the coverage of the various arts is concerned, one thing that needs to be mentioned, since most people who study a martial art in the U.S. are studying karate or a similar boxing art like TKD or kung-fu, is that there isn't any coverage of that, since karate didn't arrive in Japan from Okinawa until the 1920s, and Japan really had no native tradition of boxing like ancient China, although China had a grappling art similar to jujustu in the art of chin na, and in the north there was Mongolian wrestling. Jujutsu did have atemi-waza, or striking techniques, but it wasn't a separate art and didn't develop to the same extant that it did in China and Okinawa before being introduced into Japan. Why this is I don't know, but I point it out just in case.<br />I had one other comment about the Hunter Armstrong chapter. He discusses in detail iaido, which he feels has lost the combative aspect, if it ever had it, pointing out that drawing the sword isn't an issue on the battlefield since you'll already be in the ready with your sword drawn, and in the heat of battle, if you have to draw your sword, it's probably too late anyway. Draeger brings this issue up too in his book, and that especially since the end of WWII iaido curriculums have been modified to make them more artistic than combative.<br />While this may be true, this problem isn't unique to iai or kendo or the other weapons arts. Karate has the same problem too, and so do the other unarmed martial arts. Unless you are willing to put on the heavy contact gear and risk getting your head bashed in, you're not participating in the ultimate combative aspect of the art, either. Although the samurai of previous centuries honed their arts and skills on the crucible of the battlefield and in individual duels, this isn't medieval Japan anymore, and is no longer practical. So although I would agree with Armstrong that the paired partner practice is certainly more realistic than the solo katas of iai, even that doesn't come very close to the original environment, and I don't see much help for the situation unless people are willing to make pretty radical changes that are unlikely, if only for the liability reasons.<br />Overall, this is a fine collection of articles about various aspects of the old Japanese martial traditions that are still poorly understood in the west and outside of Japan in general.ally since the end of WWII iaido curriculums have been modified to make them more artistic than combative.<br />While this may be true, this problem isn't unique to iai or kendo or the other weapons arts. Karate has the same problem too, and so do the other unarmed martial arts. Unless you are willing to put on the heavy contact gear and risk getting your head bashed in, you're not participating in the ultimate combative aspect of the art, either. Although the samurai of previous centuries honed their arts and skills on the crucible of the battlefield and in individual duels, this isn't medieval Japan anymore, and is no longer practical. So although I would agree with Armstrong that the paired partner practice is certainly more realistic than the solo katas of iai, even that doesn't come very close to the original environment, and I don't see much help for the situation unless people are willing to make pretty radical changes that are unlikely, if only for the liability reasons.<br />Overall, this is a fine collection of articles about various aspects of the old Japanese martial traditions that are still poorly understood in the west and outside of Japan in general.	2004-03-05
758506:US	45193257	R33KTOAO96WOU1	0740738054	922171055	Words You Don't Want to Hear During Your Annual Review: A Dilbert Book	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another funny Dilbert book	This is another very funny and spot-on book from Adams. Some of the characters like Ratbert and Dogbert don't appear as much, but Wally comes on strong and new characters are introduced like ConsulTick.<br />What's funny is the resonant note that Dilbert has struck with so much of corporate America. Having been an employee at a major Fortune 500 company for many years myself, I was convinced that Adams was talking about my company, and so did everyone else, although the resemblances at times could be almost eerie.<br />Adams's cartoons of the more absurd and ridiculous aspects of corporate culture (which at times seems to be about 99% of it) continue to provide much needed comic relief for hapless cubicle dwellers everywhere, and this is another funny book from Adams that shouldn't disappoint his fans.	2004-03-05
759464:US	45193257	R1XO8BEKORHNV5	0804805091	141596275	The Samurai Sword: A Handbook	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Excellent introductory work	Although not comprehensive this is an excellent introduction to sword appreciation and understanding. After a brief consideration of the main periods of Japanese history, which shouldn't overwhelm anybody since it's a just a brief overview, the author moves on to consider the major periods of swordmaking and their history. After these two brief history chapters the author goes on to discuss the different types and styles of swords, fittings, and other info. There are detailed discussions of all the features, including blade types and details, all the fittings, especially the tsuba, or guard (which is virtually a field unto itself), plus inscriptions, lists of famous swordmakers by historical period, and much other useful and practical information. The author was possibly the most prominent sword expert living outside of Japan at the time he wrote this book. It's excellent as an introduction to the field, or as a quick reference.	2004-03-04
763768:US	45193257	R224YXW6WNQFII	0316713597	967161947	Flawed Dogs: The Year End Leftovers at the Piddleton "Last Chance" Dog Pound	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great illustrations	With a name like Berkeley Breathed you'd better be a Pulitzer-Prize winning illustrator with the talent to boot; otherwise, you yourself might end up in the Piddleton Last-Chance Dog Pound as just another flawed, unloved, and rejected mammal, whether canine or human. This funny book brings together a gaggle of aesthetically challenged canines for whom Lady Luck seems to have happily passed them by. Some of their owners are almost as unprepossessing, but you know what they say about dog owners resembling their dogs. Some of them are so homely they're almost cute, but I guess that wasn't enough to save them from the pound. This is another funny and beautifully illustrated children's book from Breathed.	2004-03-01
764676:US	45193257	R1YYL9MCW5R4RE	0140442529	100370598	Notes from Underground; the Double (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	19	N	N	A few comments and an interesting fact	Dostoyevski's underground man character, although conceived in 1864, presages by more than 50 years the alienation and disaffection that became so widespread in the 20th century, especially in the so-called \\"lost generation\\" that grew up between the two world wars. As such, it became the pattern for generations of other literary anti-heroes whose existential angst was to reverberate through literature for the next hundred years and beyond. Overall, still a great classic and one whose philosophical and literary influences still resonate today.<br />Dostoyevsky is of interest for another reason that has only recently come to the attention of medical science. Based on the notes in his diaries, Dostoyevsky may have had the very unusual neurological condition known as temporal-lobe epilepsy. This form of epilepsy produces no motor convulsions or seizures as in the classical Jacksonian epilepsy that is so well known. Rather, the effects are on the person's mental and emotional state.<br />In his notebooks Dostoyevsky reported experiencing visions and emotional states of such an intense nature, saying that that were so ecstatic that one would be willing give up one's life to experience it one more time, that it seems likely he did indeed have this rare neurological syndrome. It can produce intensely vivid imagery and visions, and ecstatic and euphoric emotional states. However, in some cases, it also produces uncontrollable rage and violence, but it appears that Dostoyevsky had the more pleasant and benign form of this disease.<br />Having studied the excerpts from his diaries describing these experiences and compared them to contemporary patients who have been diagnosed with the disease, the evidence seems compelling to me too that he did indeed have this condition. How it ultimately affected his writing I don't know, but perhaps this will be something that will enable us to gain further insight into his writings in the future.	2004-03-01
765224:US	45193257	R26WH0YCAF2CPP	076790639X	777612594	Why There Are No Good Men Left: The Romantic Plight of the New Single Woman	Books	4	12	20	N	N	Good summary of the issues	Since even this book's title is certain to push people's buttons (although no doubt it's a marketing ploy as much as anything) I'm sure it'll accumulate a lot of 1 star and 5 star reviews from each side of the now venerable war between the sexes.<br /><br />I thought the author did a good job of summarizing the social and psychological trends over the last few decades that have produced the current situation of chaos in the mating and dating game. However, I don't think that's as important as people think, and I think too much is made of it. Contrary to what most human behavior experts think, the average human has a fairly high level of social intelligence (especially women, who are proveably smarter here than the men, based on the research), and I think most men and woman have the basic skills to socialize and date without a lot of help from the experts, unless they have specific personality problems or psychological issues that need to be addressed. Of course, a little relationship education doesn't hurt, but then the experts don't agree on everything here, either. For example, consider the controversy The Rules book has created. Anyway, I think men and women should trust their basic instincts a lot more and supplement that with further reading if they want to, which certainly can be helpful--assuming you read the right experts.<br /><br />But anyway, as a result of the sexual revolution of the 60s, the increasing education of women from the 60s to the present day, the increasing number of women pursuing careers, the acceptability of cohabitation, and the psychological and financial risks of marriage and divorce, many men and women often delay for years getting married and having children. This is okay to some extent, as it certainly represents significant social progress for women. They can get educated and establish careers and have something to fall back on if they get divorced, in contrast to previous decades and centuries, where if a woman was divorced by her husband, she had little in the way of marketability and recourse at that point in terms of being able to marry again and be supported as in her previous marriage, assuming she was comfortable there. English literature abounds with stories of women who divorced and ended up as scullery maids. In most of the Muslim world, it's still that way. All the husband has to do to divorce the wife is say, in the presence of witnesses, \\"Go thee now and be divorced,\\" and she's out of luck. No lawyers, no muss, no fuss. But she can't divorce him, or it's much more difficult, if it's possible at all.<br /><br />However, this long delay runs dramatically contrary to our evolutionary biology and probably a lot of our psychology too. In prehistoric times, the average age at death has been determined from bone anatomy to be about 18 years, and the average age at marriage and childbearing was probably about 13-15 years old. Actually, our own pioneer ancestors often got married as young as 13 or 14 for the girls and 14 or 15 for the boys before heading west. Such early marriage and child-bearing was once necessary if the species was to survive, but not anymore. And modern civilizations don't approve of such early marriage and child-bearing practices, and with people living much longer anyway, there is no longer a life-expectancy related reason for such early reproduction.<br /><br />Nevertheless, the point is, as several others have pointed out, a woman is most nubile and marriagable at about 16-18 years and men are conditioned probably by their biology to prefer women of that age for physical and survivability reasons, regardless of how intelligent, educated, financially well established, successful professionally, and otherwise accomplished, they are. Therefore, a 30-year professional woman who thinks she has a lot to offer a man probably does--if he's looking for an intelligent conversation over dinner at a fine restaurant and then an evening at the symphony or opera--but not marriage. But that's what the 30-year old professional women in this book are complaining they can't attain.<br /><br />I personally think it's too bad men are like this (being a man, myself), but that's the way it is. Evolution and normal human psychology have stacked the odds against these women, and now they're scrambling to make up for the lost time. This certainly doesn't mean they can't get married, and the dismal odds in the book are probably dubious, to say the least. It just means that they'll have to lower their standards, perhaps marry an older man, or one less perfect than they would like--which the women in this book with their meticulous and detailed lists probably wouldn't be too happy about.<br /><br />As another reviewer here commented, one solution to this is for the woman to get married at a younger age but to have it in writing that if there is a divorce, she gets to go to school as part of the settlement. This isn't foolproof, however, since if the guy is a complete incompetent financially, or doesn't make much money, she may not get enough to attend a decent school. But anyway, it's a possibility that could work for many women. Actually, I knew a couple who did do this--only it was the woman who was the breadwinner and he was the house-husband. But it had been agreed that she would put him through school if they ever got divorced, and she did--although he had to lean on her a bit to get her to live up to her part of the original bargain, since he didn't have it in writing--but it did work out in the end.old professional women in this book are complaining they can't attain.     I personally think it's too bad men are like this (being a man, myself), but that's the way it is. Evolution and normal human psychology have stacked the odds against these women, and now they're scrambling to make up for the lost time. This certainly doesn't mean they can't get married, and the dismal odds in the book are probably dubious, to say the least. It just means that they'll have to lower their standards, perhaps marry an older man, or one less perfect than they would like--which the women in this book with their meticulous and detailed lists probably wouldn't be too happy about.    As another reviewer here commented, one solution to this is for the woman to get married at a younger age but to have it in writing that if there is a divorce, she gets to go to school as part of the settlement. This isn't foolproof, however, since if the guy is a complete incompetent financially, or doesn't make much money, she may not get enough to attend a decent school. But anyway, it's a possibility that could work for many women. Actually, I knew a couple who did do this--only it was the woman who was the breadwinner and he was the house-husband. But it had been agreed that she would put him through school if they ever got divorced, and she did--although he had to lean on her a bit to get her to live up to her part of the original bargain, since he didn't have it in writing--but it did work out in the end.	2004-02-29
765312:US	45193257	R2FRG0EKV3X8UK	1840463457	328931634	Introducing Logic	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fun little book and intro	I never thought I'd see an introductory logic book done in cartoon fashion with drawings (which are surprisingly good likenesses in most cases) of the different logicians along with dialog balloons where they provide additional comments on the text, like characters in a cartoon.<br /><br />The result is a fun little book with a unique approach to its subject matter that provides a fine introduction to the  different logicians' contributions. The book covers topics ranging from classical symbolic logic to the modern logic of Frege and Russell, the philosophical logic of Wittgenstein, the mathematical logic of Hilbert and Godel, and the computational logic of Alan Turing. The authors also have a nice touch with some of the historical details and personal notes about the different logicians.<br /><br />I used it as a review of some of the important history, logical developments, and epistemology, which I'd gotten rusty on, my area of interest being the philosophy of science, but for many people who just want a good, basic understanding of the issues without having to slog through the rigors of a more detailed text, this might be all they need or want. So overall, a great little introduction with a unique and light-hearted approach to such a typically forbidding and dry topic. Although certainly not a high-level academic tome, this is probably the most enjoyable and fun philosophy book I've ever encountered.	2004-02-29
765539:US	45193257	R12N1A013UEMCX	1590300149	463924521	The Heart of Kendo: A Comprehensive Introduction to the Philosophy and Practice of the Art of the Sword	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Outstanding introductory book	Outstanding introduction to kendo, covering the history, equipment, katas or forms, competition and rules, and many other areas of knowledge from an American who trained for years in Japan and also has more black belts in other arts than you can shake a stick (or a bo or a bokken) at.<br />If you liked this book, I would also recommend Karl Friday's Legacies of the Sword for a more scholarly look at the history and culture of iaido and kendo from a professor of Japanese history at the University of Georgia, much of it impressively researched and written from original language sources. It's mostly focused on the famous Kashima Shinryu style, but much of it is relevant to the other styles as well, and dozens of masters in the history of the sword arts get discussed and their styles as well.	2004-02-29
775913:US	45193257	R78YVZT98FGJJ	0804805741	97202384	This is Kendo	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Some excellent history	This is a reprint of the book originally published in 1964, if I remember correctly, and is definitely something of a classic, since there were few books available in the U.S. on the art of kendo at that time.<br />I read this book mainly for the history of kendo, in order to supplement the reading I'm doing on the history of iai, as I am mainly an iaido practitioner rather than a kendo-ka. I'd recently read Karl Friday's Legacies of the Sword, a scholarly work by an American professor of Japanese history on iaido, much of it impressively written from original Japanese sources. It was quite detailed as far as the history and philosophy of Kashima-Shinryu iaido goes, but other styles get discussed too, such as Jikishin Kage-ryu and Yagyu Shinkage-ryu. However, much of the information is relevant to other styles as well. But it was primarily, as I said, on iai, so I wanted to get some background in the kendo as well. I mention it because it would be a good book to read after this one. Just be advised, if you're familiar with Dave Lowry's lively and entertaining books on iaido, this is truly a academic tome, and the style is much denser and dryer than Lowry's works, but it's worth reading for the exhaustive detail and scholarship that went into it. The author says that it was the product of 20 years of research, and it shows.<br />I can't comment on the technical aspects of the kendo forms and techniques, but I thought the history was excellent despite a few things I found far-fetched, such as the author's mentioning of 9-foot swords. I note one of the other reviewers commented on this too, and he also had a problem with some of the author's facts on European armor. However, baring a few problems like that, I thought this chapter was excellent as a good introductory history and it contained much good information on many of the old kendo schools and the most famous masters, and dozens of famous masters are discussed along with the styles they originated, along with their exploits and some of the philosophy too. There still aren't many books discussing the history of iaido and kendo in English in much detail, and this chapter on the history is one of the better ones I've seen so far.r exploits and some of the philosophy too. There still aren't many books discussing the history of iaido and kendo in English in much detail, and this chapter on the history is one of the better ones I've seen so far.	2004-02-21
777900:US	45193257	R27KQ32POXGNC7	0071364382	345680687	John Bogle on Investing: The First 50 Years	Books	5	5	7	N	N	No nonsense book by one of the greats	A good, practical, no-nonsense book on investing that emphasizes returning to basics and tried and true approaches that have always worked over the long term. He points out that investing needn't be, and perhaps shouldn't be, rocket science, and that you can do quite well in the market over the long term just by matching the performance of the market, and not trying to beat the market. As many people found out recently, pursuing a momentum strategy in an era of already overheated PE's and buying the latest hot story stock can be dangerous to your portfolio's health. Following a value-oriented fundamental approach with at least part of your portfolio can be a useful way of reducing volatility and improving your performance even if you're a died-in-the-wool momentum investor. This advice is especially timely coming as it does in the aftermath of the recent bear market. Another important point that many experts emphasize is that it's important to implement an investment program that matches your needs and risk tolerance, perhaps the most important thing in an investing program, since if you can't sleep at night, you probably won't be able to maintain it over the long haul.<br />As Bogle points out, since 90% of fund managers fail to beat the averages over the long haul, the best strategy is to buy a fund that tracks the major indexes, which does two things. First, it minimizes costs, so you won't pay any management fees as you would for your typical mutual fund. Also, most investors don't realize such costs as advertising and sales expenses are minimal for an index, compared to other funds, and those are typically passed on to the investor in the load or management fee. Since there are now more mutual funds than there are stocks on the New York Stock Exchange (which is over 5000) and as I said, 90% of them fail to beat the indexes, it's hard to imagine a more sobering reason for making an index at least a part of your investing strategy. So overall, a good book on investing emphazing a no frills, common-sense, and back-to-basics approach.<br />Although Bogle amply documents and demonstrates that most fund managers can't beat the averages over the long haul, and so the best way to invest in a mutual fund is to buy one that invests in the indexes and avoid the costs of managed funds, this doesn't mean a small investor can't beat the averages. The reason most funds don't is that most own so many stocks, as in the case of the Magellan fund, which used to own 1400 stocks, that they're forced to buy too many second and third tier stocks (or worse), which degrades their performance. The individual investor, however, can cherry-pick and do much better that way, assuming he's successful at it. But the point is that mutual funds have an inherent disadvantage in terms of owning a quality portfolio that inevitably stacks the odds against them, a limitation which small investor doesn't have.<br />A brief side note here. I noticed the forward is by Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve Chairman who was succeeded by the present Al Greenspan. Volcker went on to head up the World Bank after that job, and I was glad to see he's still around and working.sting emphazing a no frills, common-sense, and back-to-basics approach.<br />Although Bogle amply documents and demonstrates that most fund managers can't beat the averages over the long haul, and so the best way to invest in a mutual fund is to buy one that invests in the indexes and avoid the costs of managed funds, this doesn't mean a small investor can't beat the averages. The reason most funds don't is that most own so many stocks, as in the case of the Magellan fund, which used to own 1400 stocks, that they're forced to buy too many second and third tier stocks (or worse), which degrades their performance. The individual investor, however, can cherry-pick and do much better that way, assuming he's successful at it. But the point is that mutual funds have an inherent disadvantage in terms of owning a quality portfolio that inevitably stacks the odds against them, a limitation which small investor doesn't have.<br />A brief side note here. I noticed the forward is by Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve Chairman who was succeeded by the present Al Greenspan. Volcker went on to head up the World Bank after that job, and I was glad to see he's still around and working.	2004-02-20
777993:US	45193257	R20RM6RX0FC28O	1570620504	723146566	The Sword of No-Sword: Life of the Master Warrior Tesshu	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Enjoyable account	This is a very well written and entertaining account of Tesshu, one of the last samurai, a retainer in the Emperor's service who lived during the period of Japan's transition from feudalism to a modern, industrialized state. Tesshu was a man of great martial skills and equally great compassion who was always poor because he gave away most of his considerable stipend to support his poor and starving relatives, friends, and innumerable homeless (human as well as animals) that he took in and fed, often saving them from almost certain starvation. As a result, he often went without food one or two days a week, preferring to give it to those in even greater need. A devout Buddhist at a time when most Japanese had long since adopted Shinto, Tesshu was also an accomplished calligrapher and poet. Overall, a very readable account of a great man who remained loyal to the old ways and traditions even as they were crumbling around him.	2004-02-20
778665:US	45193257	R22EQN7Y7YCAXU	0824818792	526528894	Legacies of the Sword: The Kashima-Shinryu and Samurai Martial Culture	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Detailed study of important tradition	This is the most detailed account of the historical origins, techniques, and philosophies of one of the most important koryu or old martial arts schools that I've seen so far. If you're familiar with Dave Lowry's books this would be a good book to read next, although be advised that it's more technical, and being an academic work the writing style is dryer than Lowry's also. But that's a small price to pay for the great amount of information and detail it contains.<br />The book focuses mostly on iaido, specifically the kashima-shinryu style, but much of it is relevant to the other sword styles as well. You'll also learn a fair amount about many of the other arts and how they were used on the battlefield, such as the naginata, spear, and bow. For example, I knew that the naginata became a favorite of samurai women, as well as monks, but I didn't know that kyudo or archery was originally a ceremonial and not a battlefield art back in the 8th and 9th centuries, the period during which the foundations of the later samurai-dominated social order were first laid.<br />In addition to discussing in detail the sword arts and a number of other martial traditions, Friday also gives a good account of Japanese history from the 9th to the mid-19th century, when the samurai order was finally abolished. The lineage of quite few iaido styles and their most important masters and exponents, and their lives and exploits, are also often colorfully discussed in detail, perhaps in more detail than most people will want, but since this is an academic work that pretty much goes with the territory. But I suspect the average reader of this book will have at least some previous knowledge of Japanese history and martial arts, so that shouldn't be a problem. But the book will probably be most useful to those readers with some first-hand experience with iaido who also have a more than a passing interest interest in Japanese martial history and culture.<br />I note the comments by a previous reviewer that the author's command of the physics is less than impressive, but as he concedes, most writers on the martial arts aren't that good with the physics and often get it wrong. Although this is an academic work, and as he says, should be held to higher standards, I'm more interested in the author's historical expertise, which is his forte, rather than his knowledge of the physics, since I have enough background there to figure that out for myself. Since the author is a professor of Japanese history, I assume he can read Japanese fluently and can therefore consult original sources, which is an important point, and he lists many of these under \\"primary sources\\" in the back of the book.<br />As has also been pointed out, the author is too uncritical in accepting the tales of his master's exploits and many matches and duels in which he says remained undefeated, but again, this is a typical attitude among most martial arts students, no matter how advanced. Worse in my opinion, is that the author seems to subscribe to Chinese medical theories such as the circulation of the Chi and the theory of meridians which have no basis in fact whatsover and are best regarded as pre-scientific and metaphorical depictions of physiological processes rather than truly scientific theories. A better approach would be some discussion of the relevant neurophysiology and biophysics, but that would likely be too technical for a work such as this, although much has been learned in this regard in recent decades (this was my own field of doctoral study) and there have been Nobel Prizes awarded for work in this area. Anyway, I don't expect a history prof, however proficient in his own specialty, to have a \\"black belt\\" in physics or neurobiology, so that wasn't really a problem for me, either. The book more than makes up for the above problems with the author's ability to read the original sources in Japanese, its wealth of historical detail, and its in-depth discussion of one of the most important weapons schools of the samurai era. For anyone interested in koryu this is an exhaustively reseached and detailed study that is well worth your time and money.ortant weapons schools of the samurai era. For anyone interested in koryu this is an exhaustively reseached and detailed study that is well worth your time and money.	2004-02-19
783729:US	45193257	R7E60VHDFJ3AE	0804831602	488704315	Moving toward Stillness: Lessons in Daily Life from the Martial Ways of Japan	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Useful collection of essays	This books brings together a number of Lowry's columns over the years on Zen and the martial arts, and you can learn a lot that is worthwhile about Zen and how a Zen master would apply these principles in everyday life from reading this book. There is no doubt in my mind that many martial artists and westerners in general could benefit from adopting certain Zen principles in their lives, especially in regard to the West's dysfunctional obsession with the individual ego and individual consciousness.<br />That having been said, I have a problem with books like this. The problem is the same one I had with Alan Watts's famous work, The Book, On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are, back in the 60's and 70's, which I saw as catering to that segment of the western readership who are perennially eastern-obsessed and therefore too naive and uncritical of their philosophy. Back then, there were just too many young people, who, having rejected whatever western culture they were brought up in, simply accepted, lock, stock, and barrel, Zen, Tao, Vedanta, and/or Buddhism after having read one or two books and therefore having finally discovered &quot;the truth.&quot;<br />Well, looking back, that is perhaps too harsh an assessment, and as I said, you can learn a lot that is important and worthwhile from reading Lowry's books about Zen and eastern philosophy. But having studied many of the world's philosophies and religions, I would have to point out that no one philosophy, whether eastern or western, has a monopoly on the truth. They all have their strengths and weaknesses, and no one philosophy or system has all the answers. But overall, I think Lowry has done an important service by writing so clearly and articulately for the westerner who may be at a loss for how to approach a subject as esoteric as Zen philosophy.<br />I had one more comment, by way of leaving you with a little more perspective perhaps on the relationship between east and west. The great philosopher of history and culture, Frederick Northrop, in his comparison of eastern and western modes of thinking, once pointed out that at the highest levels western epistemology and Zen both become theories of perception, although they take different approaches. The western approach is to look &quot;hard&quot; at something, trying to analyze every possible facet of the perceived object. The Zen master's approach is just the opposite. His approach is more passive, but also more reflective and receptive. He sees more by &quot;looking softer,&quot; and letting the object reflect its qualities to him by emptying his mind of all preconceived thoughts. This is the principle of &quot;mind like the moon,&quot; and it is one of the most interesting Zen principles, and a useful one for the martial artist too (at least Mas Oyama thought so, which is good enough for me). Lowry discusses many other Zen principles in his book and how a true master might apply them in his everyday life, and that you may also find useful in your own life.ory and culture, Frederick Northrop, in his comparison of eastern and western modes of thinking, once pointed out that at the highest levels western epistemology and Zen both become theories of perception, although they take different approaches. The western approach is to look &quot;hard&quot; at something, trying to analyze every possible facet of the perceived object. The Zen master's approach is just the opposite. His approach is more passive, but also more reflective and receptive. He sees more by &quot;looking softer,&quot; and letting the object reflect its qualities to him by emptying his mind of all preconceived thoughts. This is the principle of &quot;mind like the moon,&quot; and it is one of the most interesting Zen principles, and a useful one for the martial artist too (at least Mas Oyama thought so, which is good enough for me). Lowry discusses many other Zen principles in his book and how a true master might apply them in his everyday life, and that you may also find useful in your own life.	2004-02-16
784916:US	45193257	R2OVFGYZ9MXZKT	0804831424	585821513	Persimmon Wind: A Martial Artist's Journey in Japan	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting account	I enjoyed Lowry's account of his travels in Japan, which he uses to explain and illuminate many aspects of Japanese martial (and also not so martial) culture, ranging from flower arranging to iaijutsu and naginatajutsu, and others. I especially liked his account of training in a rural iai school in which the teachers, although possessing decades of experience (as well as comparable skill), still described themselves as &quot;students&quot; since they were a rural dojo and many hadn't been able to formally test for high rank, although they probably would have qualified. That didn't keep them from finding and correcting the slightest faults with his technique, and he found the workouts both exhaustive and exhausting at this humble and bucolic dojo. You can't read one of Lowry's books without learning a lot about Japanese history, philosophy, and martial arts, and this one is no different.	2004-02-15
789466:US	45193257	R1ERRNKVES2007	0471417920	947388572	John Neff on Investing	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Back to basics	John Neff recounts his life as one of Wall Street's legendary value players in this book. This is more of a personal memoir in some ways by one of investing's legends rather than a detailed investment book, but I found it enjoyable and full of useful advice nevetheless. Neff's warnings about the dangers of &quot;story stocks&quot; and momentum stocks, which recent events in the market have certainly underscored, will no doubt ring true to many investors looking to reassess their investment strategies after the recent market downturn. Neff tells how he ferretted out unloved and battered stocks with low PE's whose businesses were still solid and were set to rebound when conditions eventually turned around, which they did sooner than later in Neff's case. Although a little light on the technical details, as I said, it's more of a personal memoir, and overall, it's a good book on the lessons and advantages of value investing and how Neff pursued that strategy in the different economic environments and stock markets of the 60's to the 90's for the Windsor Fund.	2004-02-11
789566:US	45193257	R1R0BF8U6WQK86	0071364382	345680687	John Bogle on Investing: The First 50 Years	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Back-to-basics approach	A good, practical, no-nonsense book on investing that emphasizes returning to basics and tried and true approaches that have always worked over the long term. This advice is especially timely coming as it does in the aftermath of the recent bear market. Bogle points out that it's important to implement an investment program that matches your needs and risk tolerance, perhaps the most important thing in an investing program, since if you can't sleep at night, you probably won't be able to maintain it over the long haul. He also emphasizes that investing needn't be, and perhaps shouldn't be, rocket science, and that you can do quite well in the market over the long term just by matching the performance of the market. As many people found out recently, pursuing a momentum strategy in an era of already overheated PE's and buying the latest hot story stock can be very risky. Following a value-oriented fundamental approach with at least part of your portfolio can be a useful way of reducing volatility and improving your performance even if you're a died-in-the-wool momentum investor.<br />The best to do this is by following a strategy of just investing in a fund that tracks the major indexes, which does two things. First, it minimizes costs, so you won't pay any management fees as you would for your typical mutual fund. Also, most investors don't realized such costs as advertising and sales expenses are minimal for an index, compared to other funds, and those are typically passed on to the investor in the load or management fee. But the most important reason is that 90% of fund managers fail to beat the averages over the long haul. Since there are now more mutual funds than there are stocks on the New York Stock Exchange (which is over 5000) and as I said, 90% of them fail to beat the indexes, it's hard to imagine a more sobering reason for making an index at least a part of your investing strategy. So overall, a good book on investing emphazing a no frills, common-sense,and back-to-basics approach.<br />A brief side note here. I noticed the forward is by Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve Chairman who was succeeded by the present Al Greenspan. Volcker went on to head up the World Bank after that job, and I was glad to see he's still around and working.	2004-02-11
793857:US	45193257	R38V4O5UM46YIT	0380711656	720498485	Paradigms Lost	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Superb discussion of modern theories	Casti is one of the best science writers out there considering he isn't nearly as well known as some of them, but he deserves to be. Also, his books are consistently at a respectable level of technical detail and sophistication which is rare in science writing intended for the layman. In this book, although the discussions range from current cosmological theory to evolutionary biology to quantum physics, I was most interested in his discussion of Chomsky and current linguistic theory, which is my interest, so I will confine myself to that.<br />In this chapter, Casti gives the best introduction for the general reader that I've seen on Chomsky's ideas on innate language acquisition and transformational grammar. In the process, he also compares them with competing views such as Sampson's and Piaget's, and he even discusses E.O. Wilson's sociobiological views a bit, which Chomsky himself commented on. After reading this chapter, you would probably be able to read the chapter on generative and transformational grammar in a good introductory theoretical linguistics text, such as John Lyons's classic Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics, or Donna Jo Napoli's recent book, entitled simply Linguistics, which is also excellent. So overall, another great book from Casti that stands head and shoulders above the competition and with a great introduction to modern linguistic theory.	2004-02-08
795173:US	45193257	R1GPVTV91BMBS7	0446677469	275029842	Rich Dad's Guide to Investing: What the Rich Invest in, That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	3	32	37	N	N	Decent starter book despite a few problems	This is a well written and even inspirational book on how to build wealth and become rich, but there are some problems with it. The conversations between rich dad and Kiyosaki focus on the financial lessons in life that rich dad says many people learn too late, or never learn. In many ways, its remarkably similar to \\"The Richest Man in Babylon,\\" by George Clason, a venerable classic which had a similar approach and was familar to earlier generations of investors.<br />The book makes two major points, which is that most people who get rich usually start their own businesses, work hard at making them successful, and first acquire wealth that way. Then they take the money and invest it in the stock market in solid assets that will gain in value. Since the value of money is constantly decreasing, according to Kiyosaki, why hold onto cash? Kiyosaki uses the example of ancient Romans clipping silver coins, which is how the ridges or \\"reeds\\" came to be engraved on coins, as an example, but in our time it's the government that is essentially \\"clipping\\" with policies that negatively impact the value of the money. The wise rich dad, therefore, is the one that first makes the money in business but then knows how to preserve and even increase its value by investing in stocks and also in real estate.<br />On the con side, as I said, the book doesn't really give much detailed advice on how to properly invest, and if you're going to play the stock market you'll need to read more than this book. I would recommend several classics such as William O'Neil's How to Make Money in Stocks (I would read this rather than his more recent books, such as 24 Essential Lessons for Investment Success, or the others) or the legendary Peter Lynch's books, such as One Up On Wall Street. Kiyosaki says the rich dad also knows how to make money in the market when its going down as well as going up. This implies shorting stocks, but the novice investor is strongly advised not to do this until he or she is much more knowledgeable because of the risks.<br />Despite Kiyosaki's statement about the currency, the U.S. dollar doesn't always decline. For example, if you went long the dollar in the late 90s against several other currencies, such as the Deutschmark, the Japanese Yen, or the New Zealand dollar, which got to 2.4 to one against the U.S. dollar, you would have made a killing.<br />As someone else already noted, Kiyosaki is dismissive of people who get degrees and work hard to have a career as a way of making money and becoming financially secure, and repeatedly mentions the hapless poor dad in the book who worked hard his entire life and yet was laid off and is now faced with the task of finding a job at age 52, and that having your own business is the only sure road to job security. However, a Rand Corporation study done in the 90s showed that most people who had acquired significant wealth by the time they were in their forties were those who'd gotten good educations and degrees, and then had successful careers, not those who'd founded businesses. Furthermore, government statistics show that 90% of small businesses fail within the first two years. In fact, in another recent study, the people who were most well off financially were those who had had good jobs and yet lived well under their means and had saved aggressively.<br />Simce Kiyosaki's book is light on actually how to invest, I thought I'd give you one piece of advice, and it might be the best piece of investment advice you'll ever hear. There aren't very many easy ways to get rich. As someone once said, \\"Real money is easy to come by; it just takes a lifetime of work.\\" But the miracle of compound interest is one of them. Over the last 75 years, the stock market has averaged an 8% annual return. If you put $100 each month into a mutual fund, such as the Vanguard Russell 5000 fund, which mirrors the broad market, each month, and started doing that in your twenties or early thirties, and the market averages the same rate of return, you would have a million dollars after forty years. You can do this with an deduction from your savings account each month so that its automatic.<br />Another reason this is a good strategy is that it is a form of dollar-cost averaging. When the market is up and over-valued, your $100 buys fewer shares. When the market is down and under-valued, it buys more shares. Over the long term, you optimize your purchase price for stocks and further increase your return. Over the last 25 years, the market has actually returned almost 12%, so this would work even faster. Even if you're long past your 20s or 30s (like I am), this is still a great way to invest. Unfortunately, too many even very knowledgeable investors don't pay attention to this one great little investing trick. It insures that one part of your portfolio over the long term will probably do quite well, even if your personal stock picking doesn't with the part of your portfolio you're actively managing. It also provides you with a long-term investing program that isn't dictated by the short term vagaries of the market, which is what paralyzes a lot of people. Let the experts thrash around trying to predict where the market will go from day to day or week to week, while you stick to your little, automatic dollar-cost averaging program, which will help to smooth out the inevitable bumps and grinds in the market over the long term.ages the same rate of return, you would have a million dollars after forty years. You can do this with an deduction from your savings account each month so that its automatic.<br />Another reason this is a good strategy is that it is a form of dollar-cost averaging. When the market is up and over-valued, your $100 buys fewer shares. When the market is down and under-valued, it buys more shares. Over the long term, you optimize your purchase price for stocks and further increase your return. Over the last 25 years, the market has actually returned almost 12%, so this would work even faster. Even if you're long past your 20s or 30s (like I am), this is still a great way to invest. Unfortunately, too many even very knowledgeable investors don't pay attention to this one great little investing trick. It insures that one part of your portfolio over the long term will probably do quite well, even if your personal stock picking doesn't with the part of your portfolio you're actively managing. It also provides you with a long-term investing program that isn't dictated by the short term vagaries of the market, which is what paralyzes a lot of people. Let the experts thrash around trying to predict where the market will go from day to day or week to week, while you stick to your little, automatic dollar-cost averaging program, which will help to smooth out the inevitable bumps and grinds in the market over the long term.	2004-02-07
802284:US	45193257	R15M6W93UOPD4E	0066620597	357838821	Stock Market Wizards: Interviews with America's Top Stock Traders	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Worthwhile although not as great as first two	While I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to stock market investors, I didn't think it had the same depth and level of insight as Schwager's first two Market Wizards books, which I consider two of the most valuable volumes in my investment library. There were a few interviews that I liked, though, such as the one with Ahmet Okumus, the Turkish immigrant who buys quality stocks he thinks have been punished too much and will eventually turnaround. Furthermore, he sells puts on them when he thinks they're still overvalued for the options income, and if the stock declines to that level, he's actually delighted to have the stock \\"put\\" back to him since he really wanted to own the stock at that price anyway. This means he does exhaustive fundamental research and must be very accurate and confident in and of his valuation of the company for this to work, and his historical returns show he can make this work, too, as it significantly added to his overall performance. I thought that was an interesting strategy and an example of someone with a niche that they're able to exploit. I still found most of the other interviews worthwhile, though, and I would recommend this book to stock market investors since there is a lot of good advice about the pitfalls of investing there, too.	2004-02-01
802650:US	45193257	R1R934TBONVCXX	0735201811	471015642	Japanese Candlestick Charting Techniques, Second Edition	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Comprehensive and detailed	It's said that Japanese candlesticks are so universally used and well-regarded in Japan that you couldn't trade the Japanese market without knowing them. While I haven't tried it to verify that claim myself, many traders do believe in this technique of technical analysis and find it useful. Nison's book is probably the bible on the subject, and after a brief but interesting history of the Japanese market, he discusses what they are and how to use them in great depth and detail, giving the reader a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of candlesticks. Sometimes the prose gets a little dense and may be tough going for beginners, but overall, this is an excellent book on the subject.<br />If you're a novice trader, however, I would recommend you read one of the many introductory books and then a more advanced book on technical analysis before reading this one. The book isn't cheap, but I would do a search on Amazon's used books and see if you can pick up a copy that way. Finally, a caveat, which is that one indicator, or even one type of indicator (such as moving averages or oscillators) isn't enough to trade the markets, and the real skill in trading is knowing which indicator is applicable in any given situation, which only comes with experience. But this book will help you understand this important indicator so you will know how to use it when it's appropriate.	2004-02-01
803057:US	45193257	R33I4WHC6Y0A3U	0471144479	42259370	The Visual Investor: How to Spot Market Trends	Books	3	68	71	N	N	Good starter book but that's it	This is a good starter book for the beginner, although it will be much too basic for the intermediate or advanced trader. But if you're just starting out, the first 133 pages will give you a basic introduction to the different technical indicators and chart reading. The next half of the book deals with the application of the indicators to mutual funds and other topics. I would just read the first 133 pages, and then go on to one of the more advanced texts now that you have some background, as this book by itself isn't enough to give you a good understanding of the subject. Murphy himself has a more advanced book, and Martin Pring also, and many others. Just be advised this is really just the beginning. The book is also a bit overpriced but I will say it's probably the easiest book I've seen recently for getting your feet wet on the subject.<br />Perhaps the most important part of the book is Murphy's mentioning that the head and shoulders pattern was investigated by the Federal Reserve and found to be statistically significant, and supposedly now is using the indicator to time its currency interventions. However, the real use of technical analysis is not that the patterns mean anything in and of themselves, its having the experience and judgment to know which pattern applies in a given situation that makes them truly useful, and the fact the traders themselves believe in them, so to some extent they become a self-fulfilling prophecy. So the field of technical analysis is itself a combination of art and science.<br />And actually, the most important aspect of trading is loss control and sell discipline, and understanding position sizing relative to risk and reward, since understanding the technical indicators is actually fairly straightforward, and many charting packages will do that for you anyway, so you don't even know how to understand how they're derived. And the charting packages will generate buys and sells by whatever indicator you want, but remember, it's knowing when to apply a given indicator that's the hard part. Finally, if you're planning on starting in on trading yourself, make sure you read up on and understand what's known as &quot;money management&quot; thoroughly before you set out--such as proper position sizing (not risking too much money on a given trade) and not selling your losers promply--an almost universal mistake among novice traders--and even pros who should (and do) know better. Good luck and happy trading!knowing when to apply a given indicator that's the hard part. Finally, if you're planning on starting in on trading yourself, make sure you read up on and understand what's known as &quot;money management&quot; thoroughly before you set out--such as proper position sizing (not risking too much money on a given trade) and not selling your losers promply--an almost universal mistake among novice traders--and even pros who should (and do) know better. Good luck and happy trading!	2004-02-01
808156:US	45193257	R1N7KXW35IQUJX	0471295426	744326370	Getting Started in Technical Analysis	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Excellent beginner's book	I'm familiar with Schwager from his two Market Wizards books, in which he interviewed and profiled many of the great traders of our times, such as Paul Tudor Jones, the great futures and swing trader. So when I saw this I decided to check it out.<br />I would recommend this as a good beginner's book. Read this before you undertake Martin Pring's book on technical analysis, for example, as his exhaustive analysis of chart patterns will be too dense and forbidding if you're just starting out. Schwager strikes a good balance between getting the concept across and inundating the beginner with too many details. Most technical analysis methods aren't that hard to understand, even the ones based on more sophisticated math; it's the application to the real-world charts that takes some skill and experience.<br />For me the best chapter was the 82 Rules of Trading, which contains 82 short statements about trading principles, including such classics as never selling a stock that is making new highs (probably as close to an &quot;absolute&quot; principle as there is in the markets). This chapter may be most useful to someone with more trading experience in the market who's experienced what happens when you violate these principles, but they're there anyway, and it won't hurt you to get exposed to them right off. Overall, a well written, clear, and concise introduction on this aspect of trading.	2004-01-28
812547:US	45193257	R3N7LLP3X27S3T	0071384006	835933567	Technician's Guide to Day and Swing Trading	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Excellent introductory book	Whatever one thinks of technical analysis, even a died-in-the-wool fundamental and value investor trembles at the thought of going against the famous \\"head-and-shoulders\\" pattern. This book will give you an excellent background in the basics without overwhelming you with a lot of technical detail. The book discusses everything from moving averages and Bollinger Bands to oscillators such as relative strength, MACD (moving average convergence-divergence), ROC (rate of change), the parabolic indicator, and Pring's own proprietary KST indicator, and so on.  Also, the included CD contains a four-hour video presentation on the most important topics. Pring says in the introduction that, in contrast to most CDs in books, which are throw-aways, the CD is actually the most important thing and the book is the \\"throw-away.\\" In any case, there is a lot of value and information here between the book and the CD and overall this is a fine book to get you to the next level in terms of your trading expertise.	2004-01-25
817116:US	45193257	R1QJLBP5UE1ZTA	155738486X	573597831	Option Volatility &amp; Pricing: Advanced Trading Strategies and Techniques	Books	5	101	104	N	N	Great options book	Perhaps the most amazing success story in the markets and investing in the last 10 or 15 years is the growth of the options market, and the advent of inexpensive trading for derivatives such as options, allowing even the small and amateur investor to use these vehicles if he or she wants. I've read that the options market has grown more than ten-fold since the 80s, even more so than the stock market. This book will help you advance your knowledge of this important area of the market.<br /><br />This is one of the few really high-level options books that is understandable without advanced math. I have a couple of other books on options and derivatives, and they require advanced calculus. It's still geared toward the professional, but as an amateur I still found it interesting and worthwhile reading. Be advised you'll probably still need to read an introductory book or two on options before tackling this volume, which is what I did. But after absorbing those two books, I found I had the background to read and appreciate Natenberg's book. Natenberg discusses all the advanced concepts so you learn such things as how to do butterfly option spreads, synthetic puts and calls, volatility spreads, how to remain delta and gamma neutral, and other such advanced concepts. Overall a great book and essential reading for anyone who wants a better understanding of this important area.	2004-01-21
818422:US	45193257	RB0M4R5BTCWSF	1580629261	810415790	100 Best Stocks (2004)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good book on conservative investing	The main strength of this book is the 100 detailed company profiles, which give the rundown on the company's core businesses, their history of profitability, product and market area dominance, quality of management, and so on. What use is this, you might ask? Well, Peter Lynch once said that you should be able to tell at least a two-minute story about each stock you buy. Well, the coverage here amounts to a ten-minute story for each of the 100 stocks. Most of these were familiar to me, but some weren't, and so I learned something there. Perhaps the best stock I learned about was good ol' MMM, Minnesota Manufacturing and Mining. It has a 20-year record of 20 percent return on equity (ROE), and amazingly, 30 percent return on capital. You could do worse than buy this stock and just hold it. (By the way, it's up several points over the last few trading days in the market, and Proctor and Gamble has done pretty well also, another recommended stock). Anyway, for those wishing to follow a conservative, large-cap investment program, this book is packed with useful information. Anybody who buys the top dozen stocks in this book, distributing them among at least half a dozen sectors, should do pretty well over the long term. Remember, although 90 percent of all mutual fund managers don't beat the broad indexes, it's only necessary to match the market's performance over the long haul to become very well off financially and secure your retirement. This book will help you do that by concentrating on the fairly conservative strategy of buying and holding quality large-cap stocks.	2004-01-20
819543:US	45193257	R16HCISVL5I07V	0071357548	655141869	24 Essential Lessons for Investment Success: Learn the Most Important Investment Techniques from the Founder of Investor's Business Daily	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another good book from O'Neil	I liked this book although I would recommend you read O'Neil's classic, How to Make Money in Stocks, before reading this one. That's because this book basically begins where that one leaves off, and concentrates on which indicators and information to focus on as a further aid to analyzing and buying a stock. And not too surprisingly, O'Neil emphasizes that you can get all this information from the IBD. I recently looked at getting a subscription, but unfortunately, the relative strength and sector strengths info only come with the premium, or more expensive version of the subscription, but many experts regard getting and reading the IBD an essential component of their investing success.<br />While I myself have never used that particular info myself, and have been able to do just fine in the market without it, the stock tables and indicators in the IBD do boil a lot of information and research down into such famous indicators as O'Neil's relative strength and sector strength ratings, EPS and volume information, and so on. Although you could get most of this information from other sources for no charge, IBD puts it all under one cover, and the relative strength indicator is something you can't get anywhere else. This is probably worth the price of the subscription as a time-saver, especially if it helps you make money. So I would essentially say this book is mainly for those who want to use O'Neil's system in conjunction with the info contained in the IBD, and are willing to put out the money for a subscription to get it.	2004-01-20
823505:US	45193257	R1LT49UC442KT8	0071410678	674575660	When the Market Moves, Will You Be Ready?	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent book with some nice strategies	Very well written, clear, and concise book on the market, emphasizing using both fundamental value and technical chart analysis to play the market. Perhaps the most important point made in the book is the author pointing out that one must pick strong stocks in strong sectors in order to be really successful. This tip might be worth the price of the book by itself, since 3 out of 4 stocks will ultimately follow the broad market anyway. (You can get that sector strength information from the Investor's Business Daily paper or the paid version of the website, but you'll have to pay the premium subscription price to get it).<br />One other extremely interesting section is where the author shows that buying stocks during the cold months and selling them during the warm months of the year can produce almost twice the gains of holding them throughout the year. This strategy tested out as valid in the American market going back several decades and incredibly was valid in the British market going back to 1694. The basic point is that holding stocks from October to April resulted in an average return of about 12%, whereas holding them throughout the year resulted in a performance of almost half that, because stocks often declined during the warmer months. Again, that little tidbit of advice might be worth the price of the book by itself, and is reminiscent of the strategy of buying the index and going long when the stock market crosses its 200-day moving average on the upside, and shorting it when it crosses the 200-day moving average on the downside, which has produced an average return of 17%. I've looked at dozens of simple and complex strategies but I hadn't heard of this sort of seasonal strategy before and was very interested to find that out, and may give it a try myself. So overall, a fine book on the market that should be useful to the beginning as well as more experienced investor and trader.	2004-01-16
824987:US	45193257	R2NFQU62UXS4AX	0465054803	818578640	A Mathematician Plays The Stock Market	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Informative and fun	If you're an experienced trader or investor you probably won't find much new in this book, but I would recommend it to anyone who's just starting out or who doesn't consider themselves that knowledgeable about how to think about the markets yet. Written in an easy to understand, engaging style, and using the author's facility with math where it illuminates the important points, the author discusses the various approaches and styles to investing, discussing the strengths and weaknesses of both value investing and technical chart reading, for example, with wit and humor.<br />After reading this book you may be convinced that nobody can really beat the markets, and perhaps that's true, but at least you'll have a basic understanding of some of the important history and technical aspects of market analysis after reading this book. And remember, there's always the strategy of dollar-cost averaging into a broad-based market index, which has always worked over the long run, since 90% of mutual fund managers fail to beat the indexes. It's only necessary to match the market to do quite well over the long term.<br />And as far as the long term goes, remember that in the last 100 years, there have only been two instances where the market went down three years in a row--in the recent correction which started in 2000, and back in 1929 to 1931, where the greatest buy point in U.S. market history was reached in the spring of 1931, when the market was down 90% from it's 1929 highs.<br />But getting back to the present book, this is an informative and fun book on how to think and understand the markets which should give you a better perspective if you do decide to get your feet wet or go on to read other, more advanced works.	2004-01-15
829730:US	45193257	R2XEIITOGWMFC8	0781801885	52570906	Ukrainian-English Phrasebook and Dictionary (Hippocrene Language Studies)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Not Hippocrenes best, but might still be usable	I have few associations to Ukrainian language and culture, except that, oddly enough, I had the opportunity to eat in a Ukrainian restaurant in the Canadian town of Jaspar once, in the Canadian Rockies. The food was quite good (I had the Ukrainian potato dumplings, a traditional dish) and I'd be happy to eat there again if I ever return for a visit.<br />I note the two very negative reviews of this book by the two previous reviewers, citing many phonetic mistakes and even some grammatical ones, such as the author stating that Ukrainian has six cases, like Russian, whereas it actually has seven, which is the vocative case. I'm not as knowledgeable as these two people, so I defer to them here, but I would point out that technically Latin has the vocative case also, but it's hardly ever used. If you look in Latin texts, you'll only see the six cases mentioned.<br />Appropos of the grammar, I would have liked to verify if the verbal system has directive and non-directive verbs also, like Russian, but there's no mention of this, but that's perhaps a minor technical point.<br />Since this is the only book on the language I've ever seen, I picked it up to see what it was like, having had some previous background in Russian. Had it not been for the problems cited, this might have been a decent book. It's divided into 15 chapters of useful phrases in practical and dynamic situations, using the now very familiar and successful Berlitz strategy, pioneered by the great Maximilian Berlitz back in the late 19th century as an alternative to the traditional rote memorization of languages. So there are chapters on Transportation, Shopping, Food and Drink, At the Restaurant, etc. There is a 5-page section on essential phrases, and a phonetic and pronunciation guide. Finally, there is a 3000 word mini-dictionary in the back.<br />The book uses phonetic equivalents to aid in pronunciation, and the book is quite readable being in the large, trade paperback size with a good-size font. The book also includes the Cyrillic alphabet and a transliteration for the words. At just over 200 pages it would be a lot of information for the price, since it's only 12 dollars, had it not been for the problems cited by the two previous reviewers. Despite those, I give it a slightly better rating at 2 stars for being the only book I've ever seen on the subject, which will still be useful to you if you keep in mind the corrections in the two earlier reviews. And the price is a consideration too since Hippocrene's books are usually cheaper than the competition.<br />In that sense, I guess you get what you pay for. The quality of Hippocrene's books can be uneven, it's true, but they're also capable of putting out very good language books for a realtively modest price, so they can offer a lot of value for the money, such as their concise of grammar of Spanish, which I thought excellent. You just have to pick and choose a little bit. And sometimes, as in this book, they're often just about the only books available on the subject in a typical bookstore, without access to a university library with an extensive language and linguistics section, such as their Beginner's Assyrian and Beginner's Armenian books.e book also includes the Cyrillic alphabet and a transliteration for the words. At just over 200 pages it would be a lot of information for the price, since it's only 12 dollars, had it not been for the problems cited by the two previous reviewers. Despite those, I give it a slightly better rating at 2 stars for being the only book I've ever seen on the subject, which will still be useful to you if you keep in mind the corrections in the two earlier reviews. And the price is a consideration too since Hippocrene's books are usually cheaper than the competition. <br />In that sense, I guess you get what you pay for. The quality of Hippocrene's books can be uneven, it's true, but they're also capable of putting out very good language books for a realtively modest price, so they can offer a lot of value for the money, such as their concise of grammar of Spanish, which I thought excellent. You just have to pick and choose a little bit. And sometimes, as in this book, they're often just about the only books available on the subject in a typical bookstore, without access to a university library with an extensive language and linguistics section, such as their Beginner's Assyrian and Beginner's Armenian books.	2004-01-12
831383:US	45193257	R3970AXN75O8R5	185828922X	883351640	The Rough Guide to Hindi & Urdu Phrasebook 2 (Rough Guide Phrasebooks)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent little phrasebook/dictionary	Except for having studied some classical Sanskrit, I don't know much about Indian subcontinnental languages like Urdu and Hindi, except that Urdu is the main language in Pakistan and Hindi is probably the same for India, despite the many more languages spoken there. I'd never seen a book covering both of the languages before, so I checked it out, and this looks to be an excellent little phrasebook and dictionary.<br />You can learn a lot even from a little book like this, and it turns out Hindi and Urdu are mostly mutually intelligible, although written in different alphabets, Urdu using the Permo-Arabic script and Hindi using the old Devenagari alphabet, or more accurately, syllabary.<br />The book starts out with a 30-page section giving basic info such as a pronunciation guide and an intro to the grammar. It also includes common phrases, numbers, telling tiem, and so on. Most of the book is taken up by the dictionary and phrasebook, but interspersed throughout there are sidebars that provide extra info. Often these are cultural tips on such things as customs, etiquette, and slang, but occasionally you get some grammar, too.<br />Finally, there is a reference section in the back with sections on signs and notices, how to read menus and food items, numbers, place names, road signs, public holidays, and many others, in both the Hindi and Urdu. Also, although as I said they're very similar languages, any words or phrases that are only for on Language are indicated by a &quot;U&quot; or &quot;H.&quot;<br />The text uses &quot;keyword referencing&quot; for the dictionary, so if you need to find out how to ask for a hotel room, you just go to the &quot;hotel&quot; section in the dictionary and look for that word, and then you can find the phrase from there.<br />I also learned some interesting things about the grammar, such as that there are only two genders and two noun cases in Urdu and Hindi, the direct and the oblique. What we call prepositions occur as postpositions, or after the noun, and pronouns lack gender, so there is no &quot;he&quot; or &quot;she.&quot; The verb has the same tenses as English and most Indo-European languages, which are strong on time relationships in general (unlike, for example, Arabic and Japanese, which lack a true future tense and are not especially detailed in this regard), and so there are past, present, future, past continuous, past perfect, past imperfect, etc., tenses, as well as the indicative, imperative and subjunctive moods as well.<br />Given all the features and at 240 pages, it's a lot of information in one little book. And at six and a half dollars, the price is right. The paper is also higher quality than I've seen in other small, inexpensive phrasebooks. All in all, I think this is a great little dictionary/phrasebook book for the price from the Rough Guide.s, or after the noun, and pronouns lack gender, so there is no &quot;he&quot; or &quot;she.&quot; The verb has the same tenses as English and most Indo-European languages, which are strong on time relationships in general (unlike, for example, Arabic and Japanese, which lack a true future tense and are not especially detailed in this regard), and so there are past, present, future, past continuous, past perfect, past imperfect, etc., tenses, as well as the indicative, imperative and subjunctive moods as well.<br />Given all the features and at 240 pages, it's a lot of information in one little book. And at six and a half dollars, the price is right. The paper is also higher quality than I've seen in other small, inexpensive phrasebooks. All in all, I think this is a great little dictionary/phrasebook book for the price from the Rough Guide.	2004-01-11
844436:US	45193257	R2HCLLDX5X0ZS1	1563052946	390754006	Wicked German (Wicked Travel Series)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Very funny little German book	A very funny little German book that is as much a satire on the language, Germans, and travel in general as a phrasebook. Although only 64 pages, it packs a lot of humor and entertainment into this small package. Some of the phrases are truly funny. To give you a sampling of some of what's in the book, here are a few examples. In the chapter on Clothing I found \\"Diese Hosen sind einfach ummerfend.\\" (These lederhosen are hilarious!) In the chapter on dealing with policemen, there was \\"Ich muste sie naturlich von der Strasse rammen.\\" (I had to run him off the road, of course). In the chapter on \\"Words of Love and Pastry,\\" there was \\"Ich mochte in Ihren Gugelhopf beissen.\\" (I want to bite your Bundt cake). And in the chapter, \\"The Wurst of the Wurst,\\" there was \\"Habe ich erwahnt das ich mich entschlossen Vegetarier su weiden?\\" (Did I mention that I've decided to become a vegetarian?).<br />The book is devided into 38 sections of a page or two, each with its own funny phrases. The book is mostly phrases and sentences, but there are a few funny words highlighted too. There is also a humorous two-page \\"fractured\\" history and timeline of beer, which has entries like, \\"1516--The German Purity Law is written ro protect the quality of beer. Anyone caught drinking a Coors is spanked to death by a 300-pound barmaid.\\" Even the chapter and section titles are humorous, such as \\"Surviving German Romanticism,\\" and \\"Grimm Tales of the Black Forest.\\"<br />If you liked this book I can also recommend \\"Scheisse!: The Real German You Were Never Taught in School,\\" by Gertrude Besserwisser, which covers all the funniest and most outrageous German curses, epithets, slang, and other phrases of dubious parentage and gentility. For example, I learned that saying \\"BMW\\" doesn't just mean the name of a car, it also refers to a woman who is not especially well-endowed, since it's from \\"Brett mit Warzen,\\" or \\"a board with warts.\\" But a lot of the book wouldn't be repeatable here, so I'll have to leave it at that and urge you to get the book yourself if you're interested.ave it at that and urge you to get the book yourself if you're interested.	2004-01-02
845700:US	45193257	RXHO9VELKY1Z3	0486424758	618424573	Simplified Grammar of Arabic, Persian and Hindustani	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Great value for the price	This is the Dover, 2002 edition of this 1890 classic by E. H. Palmer. Despite being published almost 115 years ago by Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner, and Co., this is still one of the best concise grammars of Arabic I've seen. I only know the basics about Persian and Hindustani, and was most interested in the Arabic part. Except for being written in the same Arabic script (with some minor modifications), those two languages don't have much in common with Arabic, except for many loan words, since Arabic is a Semitic family language, and Persian and Hindustani are Indo-European languages. I did learn, though, that the alphabet for Hindustani is almost the same as for Arabic, except that Hindustani has Arabic letters with up to four dots over them, the maximum in Persian and Arabic being three.<br /><br />The book is only 100 pages long, but half of it is devoted to the Arabic grammar. It emphasizes the \\"algebraic\\" approach to the word root, which I found very helpful, and which the modern introductory grammars of Arabic by Ingle and Awde that I have don't seem to use. For example, using the letters X, Y, and Z to denote the tri-syllabic word pattern, the author gives the basic pattern for a root and then discusses how the variations on the root change the meaning. For example, the simplest verb form in Arabic is the pattern, XaYaZa. An example of a verb that meets that pattern would be the verb for \\"does,\\" or  fa:ala (the \\":\\" denotes one of the glottal-type Arabic sounds). Katala (he killed) and dharaba (he struck) are other examples.<br /><br />One often reads that the triliteral root patterns are helpful in inferring and gleaning other knowledge about the words, but from my experience, still being a comparative beginner, this is something that doesn't become that helpful until one has reached the intermediate stage of study, although there are exceptions, such as in the pattern for adjectives that I mentioned above. But as the author's approach emphasizes the root patterns and their derivations more than the other books I have, that aspect of the language has become more apparent to me. In general, the author avoids technical grammatical and linguistic terms.<br /><br />The author includes some nice tables of the verb conjugations, such as the  \\"Table of Derived Forms, \\" \\"Table of Forms of the Simple Verb,\\" and a \\"Table of Broken Plurals.\\" (There is no consistent way to form the plural of nouns in Arabic, so the best way is to just learn it with the word, as with the gender for nouns in French, German, and Spanish). There are also tables for numerals and ordinals.<br /><br />I only have one complaint about the book, which is that the print is a little faint or spotty occasionally, probably because it was reproduced from camera-ready copy from the original book, but considering the price is only nine dollars, it's a lot of value for the price. I also like the Arabic font better than the ones in several other modern Arabic books, which is somewhat more compact (less distance between consonants and letters), which I found easier to read). And if you actually need the Persian and Hindustani grammars, you really can't beat it. As they say, you can beat the author, but you can't beat his price. :-)erns and their derivations more than the other books I have, that aspect of the language has become more apparent to me. In general, the author avoids technical grammatical and linguistic terms.<br /><br />The author includes some nice tables of the verb conjugations, such as the  \\"Table of Derived Forms, \\" \\"Table of Forms of the Simple Verb,\\" and a \\"Table of Broken Plurals.\\" (There is no consistent way to form the plural of nouns in Arabic, so the best way is to just learn it with the word, as with the gender for nouns in French, German, and Spanish). There are also tables for numerals and ordinals.<br /><br />I only have one complaint about the book, which is that the print is a little faint or spotty occasionally, probably because it was reproduced from camera-ready copy from the original book, but considering the price is only nine dollars, it's a lot of value for the price. I also like the Arabic font better than the ones in several other modern Arabic books, which is somewhat more compact (less distance between consonants and letters), which I found easier to read). And if you actually need the Persian and Hindustani grammars, you really can't beat it. As they say, you can beat the author, but you can't beat his price. :-)	2004-01-01
845958:US	45193257	REUIXQCB0YCNF	0812005473	622560115	201 Arabic Verbs (201 Verbs Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Useful but only for the already knowledgeable student	This book gives you the conjugation tables for 201 verbs as it says, but be forewarned, you will already need to be fully conversant with the grammar and Arabic verbs in general to use it. The verbs aren't even given phonetic equivalents in the tables. So this is basically only for the advanced or perhaps intermediate student. For the price, I don't see why some basic information on Arabic verb conjugations, verb patterns and grammar couldn't have been provided, as in the other 501 and 201 verb books from Barron's. The 501 books, for example, often have 20 or 30 pages of material on this, serving at least as a good review for the experienced and a pretty good introduction for the neophyte.<br />On the pro side, however, the index is organized according to verb categories and conjugational patterns. So if, for example, you need to look up the pattern for verbs with initial, medial, or final hamza, doubly weak verbs, geminate, or quadriliteral verbs, or any of the other verb categories, along with the 10 conjugational patterns themselves, you can find them in the index and then go right to that pattern in the text. The complete verb table and pattern is displayed, so if you need to find out what the imperfect subjunctive or jussive is, it's all there.<br />If you're going to use this book and aren't at least an intermediate student yet, I can recommend the Arabic Verbs and Essentials of Grammar book by Jane Wightwick and Mahmoud Gaafar, which will help you fill in all the gaps. There are other grammars out there, but if you have some grammatical and linguistic background, the E. H. Parker book, Simplified Grammar of Hindustani, Persian, and Arabic, although now 120 years old and resissued by Dover Press, is still surprisingly good and a great bargain (at eight dollars) for the price.	2004-01-01
846436:US	45193257	R28XZ9M4WTNDG9	0452272211	631973895	Scheisse! The Real German You Were Never Taught in School	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Very funny book on German	This is probably the funniest book you'll ever see on German, and it's the only one I've seen on the subject. Most of the book wouldn't be repeatable here, but I might be able to mention a couple things. &quot;Die Muschi&quot; refers both to &quot;cat&quot; as well as to you know what, just as in English. Equally funny, I recall from my study of Chinese that in Mandarin, the word &quot;mao,&quot; pronounced with the tone that falls at first and then rises, has the same dual meaning too. So German, Chinese, and English are all alike in this respect. :-) You might hear the acronym &quot;BMW&quot;, but it doesn't refer to the car. It's shorthand for Brett mit Warzen, or &quot;a board with warts,&quot; referring to a woman that is not especially well endowed. However, &quot;der Vorbau&quot; means just the opposite. In fact, it translates as &quot;front porch,&quot; which carries a connotation of being fairly heavy as well.<br />The book has 12 chapters with hundreds of off-color and colorful phrases and words, and a glossary. Each chapter has a paragraph of introduction to the subject of the chapter, such as &quot;Curses, Epithets, and Other Cries of Exasperation,&quot; or &quot;The Basics,&quot; or &quot;Body Language and Other Parts.&quot; Finally, there a little quiz in the back to test your new-found knowledge of scatological German linguistics, so to speak. The book is only 112 pages, but there is a lot of information in those 112 pages, and it's worth the price just for the entertainment factor.	2003-12-31
848824:US	45193257	RBFNH7UE5X62L	0781802342	72671888	Beginner's Japanese (Beginner's Series)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Excellent beginner's book	I think this is one of the better Hippocrene Beginner's Series books I've seen. It would be suitable for a good introduction to Japanese for most people. It's laid out differently from most of the Hippocrene Beginner's books  I've seen. The right-hand margin of the right page has sidebars that elaborate on or add to the text, such as discussing aspects of Japanese culture, or fine points of the grammar. The left-hand margin of the left page has the current chapter's vocabulary list and definitions.<br />The author makes a very interesting statement, which is that it takes a Japanese speaker 5 to 8 years to achieve fluency in English, but an English speaker only 2 to 3 years for Japanese. I don't know if this is true or not, but one major thing Japanese has going for it is the very regular verbs and other aspects of the grammar. Unlike English, Spanish, French, and other Indo-European languages, which often have hundreds of irregular verbs, Japanese only has two. For example, 22 of the most commmon Spanish verbs are irregular in the present indicative tense, and of those, 18 are irregular in the subjunctive mood and often several other conjugations, making for a great deal of memory work.<br />The main difficulty for most English speakers will be that some concepts in Japanese will seem strange. For example, Japanese doesn't have adjectives as we know it. They actually belong to the verb rather than the noun grammatically, and are are conjugated to agree with the verb rather than declined to agree with nouns, as in most languages. And even verbs don't exist as we know them. In Japanese, it's most accurate to think of verbs as expressing the \\"act of doing something,\\" rather than simple action per se, according to another book on Japanese I just read.<br />The book is also good for discussing basic Japanese sentence patterns, and these are often highlighted and discussed in the text. However, the book doesn't really go into Japanese particles in depth, which are a more advanced and difficult part of the grammar, but I wouldn't expect that in a beginning book. These are small standalone words that serve various functions, such as marking the subject, topic, or modifying the verb, and other things. For that you'll need a more advanced book. There are at least two books out I've seen devoted just to particles. These are: \\"Dictionary of Japanese Particles,\\" by Sue Kawashima, and the other is \\"All About Particles,\\" by Naoko Chino. Both of these are excellent and will help you with this important area of the grammar. Another good book is \\"Japanese Sentence Patterns,\\" which discusses 50 basic patterns and 69 variations, also by Naoko Chino.<br />But getting back to the present book, there are 25 lessons or chapters. Each lesson has exercises, self-tests, a vocabulary list, and discussions of grammar. The grammatical discussions aren't too technical but cover the necessary points well. The book also includes an index with all the vocabulary words paged to the text, and a discussion of the Hiragana and Katakana phonetic alphabets. Hiragana is taught to schoolchildren when they're first learning to read, and Katagana is used for spelling important foreign words. All in all a very nice introductory book on Japanese.e advanced and difficult part of the grammar, but I wouldn't expect that in a beginning book. These are small standalone words that serve various functions, such as marking the subject, topic, or modifying the verb, and other things. For that you'll need a more advanced book. There are at least two books out I've seen devoted just to particles. These are: \\"Dictionary of Japanese Particles,\\" by Sue Kawashima, and the other is \\"All About Particles,\\" by Naoko Chino. Both of these are excellent and will help you with this important area of the grammar. Another good book is \\"Japanese Sentence Patterns,\\" which discusses 50 basic patterns and 69 variations, also by Naoko Chino. <br />But getting back to the present book, there are 25 lessons or chapters. Each lesson has exercises, self-tests, a vocabulary list, and discussions of grammar. The grammatical discussions aren't too technical but cover the necessary points well. The book also includes an index with all the vocabulary words paged to the text, and a discussion of the Hiragana and Katakana phonetic alphabets. Hiragana is taught to schoolchildren when they're first learning to read, and Katagana is used for spelling important foreign words. All in all a very nice introductory book on Japanese.	2003-12-30
849918:US	45193257	R16EBTDWRWSR3X	9995266385	81705211	Just Enough Greek	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good little phrasebook	This is a nice compact little phrasebook in the Passport Just Enough series. Besides the phrasebook, it includes an alphabet and pronunciation guide, everyday expressions, a map of Greece, and a considerable reference section of 30 pages containing some grammatical notes on the language, months and dates, numbers, country names, and so on.<br />The phrasebook portion is divided up into 18 chapters, such as Accommodations, General Shopping, Health, Eating and Drinking Out, Leisure, and there was also Asking if Things Are Allowed, and Crossing the Border. The everyday Expression section contains phrases like &quot;I don't speak Greek,&quot; and &quot;Where's the toilet?&quot;--surely an important phrase to know in any language or country. :-)<br />I only have one complaint, which is that the type looks a little too dark and heavy, just short of looking sort of smudgy, probably because of the cheap paper. There's also the Lonely Planet and Berlitz compact phrasebooks, which are printed on better paper, but they're almost twice the price of this one, since it's only five dollars. But overall this is a fine little phrasebook and the only reason I give it four stars is because of the print. Other than that it's a great value at the price.<br />Also please note that the Amazon listing of the book says it's out of print and out of stock, but I found a copy recently at a Border's Books. Not sure if that means it's been recently reprinted in a new edition or not, but it might now be available again, so check if you're interested.	2003-12-29
850041:US	45193257	R1XWJ9AUSQREG3	0781806771	802777217	Beginner's Assyrian (Beginner's (Foreign Language))	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Okay for linguists, but not a good beginner's book	This is not an especially good beginner's book; a more appropriate title would be \\"A Linguist's Beginner's Assyrian,\\" as it presumes too much previous knowledge of grammar and of Semitic family languages. It would not be appropriate as a first learning text for most people, in my opinion. However, for someone who's main interest, like mine, is in comparative linguistics and not in learning the language per se, but who wants to learn the something about the language, about the grammar, and how it works and is structures, this book is fine.<br />The book's approach is straight out of late 19th century language pedagogy in it's use of rote memorization and the inclusion of lengthy passages to translate. And the style reads like it was actually written many years ago, and republished by Hippocrene. I'd like to know more about this, but the publication page only lists the date of the Hippocrene edition.<br />On the pro side, the book includes an alphabet and phonetic guide, a 45-page discussion of the grammar, a glossary of about 800 words, and 30 pages of smaller print footnotes discussing various aspects of the Romanized phoneticizations for translations. There is a list of 215 ideograms and a list of 360 phonograms. So despite its problems, I did learn quite a bit about Assyrian from this book. The language is based on the typical tri-consonantal root system for Semitic family languages, like Arabic, Aramaic, Ugaritic, and Hebrew (but not Hittite, which is now known to be of Indo-European origin).<br />To highlight some of the mains points of the grammar that I learned, nouns in Assyrian have two genders, male and female. Nothing is needed to form the male gender, and the female ending involves simply adding a \\"u\\" to the end of the word. There are five noun declensions or cases: nominative, accusative, genitive, dative, and locative, as in classical Arabic. (In current Arabic there is only the nominative, accusative, and dative, and those are no longer used in the modern spoken Arabic).<br />I couldn't find a precise breakdown of tenses, moods, or aspects, but the author states that the Assyrian verb has imperfect, permansive, imperative, infinitive, and participial forms. In addition, there are causative and reflexive verbs, and strong and weak verbs. The \\"permansive,\\" which was new to me, is defined as having an intransitive quality, and denotes continuation of state or being. Examples of permansives are \\"they dwell,\\" or \\"sapuh,\\" \\"it is spread,\\" or \\" sabtu,\\" \\"they were left,\\" or \\"purruku,\\" and \\"it was situated,\\" or \\"massura.\\" There are four primary, four secondary, and two tertiary verb stems, the 2nd and 3rd being formed from the primary by adding \\"ta\\" and \\"tan.\\"<br />Weak and strong verbs don't have the same meaning as in the Germanic family languages, where strong verbs form the past tense by an internal vowel change, as in \\"speak\\" and \\"spoke.\\" A weak verb just means that verbs with stem endings in certain letters lose these letters when adding the conjugational endings.<br />As far as modifiers go, there are adverbs of manner, time, and place, as in English. Adjectives are similar also. There is only one indeclinable relative pronoun which doesn't change for person, gender, or number. Demonstrative pronouns (this, that) are the same as in English and most languages.<br />So although not an especially good beginner's book, I was still quite entertained by this book, and I was able to use it to gain at least a basic understanding of a language is probably little changed since about 3800 B.C. The author states that Assyrian is quite similar to Akkadian. (I should mention here that Sumerian is quite different, however, and is in fact not a Semitic language according to linguists). Assyrian finally died out 2500 years ago, about the time Pericles was giving his orations in the Greek senate. And after reading this book, I can see why. :-) However, at 12 bucks, the price is relatively inexpensive.<br />Note: since I first postedthis review, I did a web search and found D.G. Lyon's name in the following reference: \\"D.G. Lyon, Harvard Excavations at Samaria, 1908-10.\\" So Lyon was active in the early part of the last century, and the book probably dates from that period. So Hippocrene is likely reissuing an old book whose original copyright has expired, which accounts for the dated writing style and learning approach.this review, I did a web search and found D.G. Lyon's name in the following reference: \\"D.G. Lyon, Harvard Excavations at Samaria, 1908-10.\\" So Lyon was active in the early part of the last century, and the book probably dates from that period. So Hippocrene is likely reissuing an old book whose original copyright has expired, which accounts for the dated writing style and learning approach.	2003-12-29
850564:US	45193257	R2F4ESJOFTML5J	0195079930	114764632	The World's Writing Systems	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Exceptional reference work and coverage	Exceptionally well researched, documented, illustrated, and well-written reference work on 80 of the world's writing systems. I don't know if they're all here, but they include extinct languages such as Egyptian and Gothic, as well as modern ones that are still alive. Alphabets as diverse as the Cree syllabary and Korean phonetic alphabet are discussed, as well as phonographic and ideographic systems such as Egyptian and Assyrian cuneiform.<br />Much of the information in this book relating to the history and development of various writing systems can be found in  Encyclopedia Britannica and Encarta articles on various languages and language groups, but the actual writing systems are usually not shown, which is where this book comes in. This book lays them all out under one cover. However, the Britannica articles are especially impressive from the standpoint of the comparative philology and historical linguistics, so you might want to consult those articles too for that information, especially as the Britannica CD is only a fraction of the cost of this book.<br />In addition to the real languages covered, this book even covers musical notation, body movement, and Tolkien's invented language for Middle Earth. Despite the cost, this is an extraordinary reference work on writing systems that will probably become the definitive work in its field.	2003-12-29
851146:US	45193257	R2BMC5RE5M8U99	0764103946	819205659	Arabic (Barron's Travel Wise)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very high-quality paperback and phrasebook	In addition to the phrasebook, and although it's reflected in a higher price, this book has very high-quality production values and materials for a contemporary paperback book. Paper is nice, high-quality gossy, and pages are sewed in signatures as well as glued into the binding, for years of use. Chapters are color-coded with icons on the page edges. Roman phoneticization of Arabic words is set in blue type. Tables use color, and illustrations are in color. The cover looks like durable, woven canvas with a waterproof, plasticized coat.<br />The words and phrases show short-vowel markings, normally not indicated in adult books, which will help with the learning of the words, and making this book a good general vocabulary building book for the non-expert in the language. In addition to the phrasebook, there is a guide to the alphabet and pronunciation, a brief grammar section covering some crucial points of the grammar, and a reference section containing tables of weights and measures, expressions of time, days and months, and so on. At the end is a considerable 80-page English-to-Arabic only dictionary that contains about 2300 words. The front and back covers have a map of the Arabic world. Almost no expense appears to have been spared (literally) to make this a quality product.<br />The phrasebook section is organized in typical fashion with chapters devoted to various useful situations and topics, such as Eating and Drinking, Events/Entertainment, Clothing, Beach/Sports. There is even an \\"At the Police Station,\\" and \\"At the Dentist\\" section, which, hopefully, you will never need! And there is a section with frequently used phrases. I couldn't find a figure for how many phrases are contained in the book, but as I said, there are about 2300 words in the dictionary, providing a fairly substantial vocabulary. This is a very high-quality paperback, which, although that's reflected in the price of 13 bucks, which is anywhere from 50% to 100% more than the comparable Berlitz, Lonely Planet, and Passport series phrasebooks, I think is still reasonable considering the features and the quality you're getting.litz, Lonely Planet, and Passport series phrasebooks, I think is still reasonable considering the features and the quality you're getting.	2003-12-28
852230:US	45193257	R1IPSVW8EALQLM	0781807239	445999652	Beginner's Armenian (Hippocrene Beginner's)	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Good introductory grammar and vocabulary	This is the Hippocrene edition of the book that was originally published in 1966 by the Armenian General Benevolent Union.<br /><br />Armenians call themselves Hai, and their language Hayeren. It used to be thought a language isolate like Ainu on the island of Hokkaido in Japan or Burushaski, a substratal language spoken by about 50,000 people in the mountain valleys of Pakistan, but it's now known to be a member of the large Indo-European family. It has a unique alphabet of 38 letters, which only have one sound, making it very phonetic.<br /><br />This makes for a good beginning grammar book and will help you acquire your first working vocabulary of Armenian, as it contains about 1500 words, and many useful phrases and expressions, but I suspect the average person might find the book a little too difficult as a beginning course.<br /><br />That having been said, I enjoyed this little book, and there are few resources out there for someone interested in actually learning the language. My interest is in comparative and structural linguistics, so the greater focus on the grammar was just fine for me. I can recommend Modern Western Armenian, by Thomas Samuelian, in two volumes, for those looking for a more complete beginner's course.<br /><br />I did learn a lot from this book about the grammar. There is no gender in Armenian, which is a godsend for an Indo-European language. Nouns have six cases similar to those that exist in and are well-known from Russian and Latin, and the older, root language has some archaic ones that aren't used much anymore, but the author does discuss those in some detail.<br /><br />Verbs have indicative, imperative, and subjunctive moods, and present, imperfect (continuous past), past (habitual past), conditional, and future tenses. The negative of a verb is formed by placing a single letter at the beginning of the verb, and there is no special form for the interrogative in Armenian, being denoted only by a change in the voice. This is different from English, which requires an auxiliary verb, or in French, which uses inverted sentence structure. Armenian has causative verbs and a compound past tense, using the auxiliary verb \\"have\\" to form it, as in \\"I have read,\\" exactly the same as in English.<br /><br />There are mostly postpositions in Armenian and only a few prepositions as we know them in English. When they do occur prepositions often govern certain noun cases and declensions. For example, the \\"words,\\" \\"as,\\" \\"until,\\" and \\"without\\" require the use of the dative and accusative case, and the word \\"except\\" governs the ablative case.<br /><br />Adverbs and adjectives are used much as they are in English, with the exception that adjectives, like nouns, are declined. And some adjectives, as with prepostions, require certain cases, such as the instrumental and dative. The author illustrates and lists several of these in the same section as the prepositions.<br /><br />The book is 208 pages long is divided up into 15 chapters, in the large trade paperback size. It contains a dictionary of 1500 words, many useful phrases and idioms, an alphabet and pronunciation guide, many paragraphs of conversation for translation, and a good capsule grammar. I found this to be an excellent book to get a good grasp of the comparative aspects of Armenian morphology and grammar, and the price is also reasonable considering there are few other resources out there on Armenian. For me the book was fine, although as I said, if you're interested in a better beginner's course you might check out the Samuelian books. Finally, both the Pimsleur and Penton's language series have audio-based courses in Western Armenian that have been favorably reviewed here too.iliary verb, or in French, which uses inverted sentence structure. Armenian has causative verbs and a compound past tense, using the auxiliary verb \\"have\\" to form it, as in \\"I have read,\\" exactly the same as in English.    There are mostly postpositions in Armenian and only a few prepositions as we know them in English. When they do occur prepositions often govern certain noun cases and declensions. For example, the \\"words,\\" \\"as,\\" \\"until,\\" and \\"without\\" require the use of the dative and accusative case, and the word \\"except\\" governs the ablative case.    Adverbs and adjectives are used much as they are in English, with the exception that adjectives, like nouns, are declined. And some adjectives, as with prepostions, require certain cases, such as the instrumental and dative. The author illustrates and lists several of these in the same section as the prepositions.    The book is 208 pages long is divided up into 15 chapters, in the large trade paperback size. It contains a dictionary of 1500 words, many useful phrases and idioms, an alphabet and pronunciation guide, many paragraphs of conversation for translation, and a good capsule grammar. I found this to be an excellent book to get a good grasp of the comparative aspects of Armenian morphology and grammar, and the price is also reasonable considering there are few other resources out there on Armenian. For me the book was fine, although as I said, if you're interested in a better beginner's course you might check out the Samuelian books. Finally, both the Pimsleur and Penton's language series have audio-based courses in Western Armenian that have been favorably reviewed here too.	2003-12-27
853788:US	45193257	RF4YRORM1B2AI	0691114064	872637296	The Hungarians: A Thousand Years of Victory in Defeat	Books	5	74	89	N	N	Engaging history on this people	Well written, detailed, and fascinating history of this often beleaguered but important people and country. My interest is mostly in Ural-Altaic linguistics, which includes Hungarian, which belongs to what is called the Finno-Ugric branch of the Uralic sub-family, which contains Finnish, Estonian, and Hungarian, but I also found I enjoyed picking up some history about the Hungarians and their culture, too. I already had the basics and knew about when they'd first arrived in eastern Europe, and about their later wars with the Tatars, Turks, and Russians, but I learned quite bit more about it from this book.<br />A little aside here, Hungarians have contributed disproportionately, relative to their numbers, to modern math, physics, and other areas of science. They include greats like mathematician Paul Erdos, who founded the area of discrete mathematics, worked in many areas of pure math, and may have been the most prolific mathmematician who ever lived, with 1500 papers; John von Neumann, who developed game theory and was the inventor of the electronic computer; Edward Teller, the \\"father of the H-Bomb,\\" and Bela Julesz, a mathematical psychophysicist and researcher in the field of visual perception, and recipient of the prestigious MacArthur \\"Genius Award.\\" And last but not least, Andy Grove, the former President and CEO for 20 years of Intel Corporation, the famous computer chip-maker, was Hungarian also.<br />Interestingly, although I'm not Hungarian myself, I have a few connections to some of the above. I'm related to Ernest Lawrence, who invented the cyclotron, or atom smasher, which made possible critical technology for the building of the atom bomb, without which there wouldn't have been the later hydrogen bomb. Lawrence won the Nobel Prize in 1939 for his invention. I worked at Intel for several years, and met Andy Grove. And my immediate boss at Intel was Hungarian too, and he and I used to discuss Hungarian history and culture occasionally, which he used to get a kick out of, since I was the only non-Hungarian he knew with any interest in it.<br />I also had the pleasure of travelling around Hungary and most of the eastern-bloc countries back in the early 80s, before the wall came down, and found the Hungarian people both worldly and hospitable. It's said that because of their turbulent history, Hungarians approach life realistically and without illusions, and I think I can say this is certainly true based on my own experience.<br />But getting back to the present book, I wanted to mention one other interesting fact about the Hungarians, which is that they are most closely related to the Ostyak tribes of Siberia. The Ostyaks have the distinction of being the only tribes and villages the Communists couldn't take over and subjugate, and their villages remained politically independent of Moscow throughout the entire communist period.get a kick out of, since I was the only non-Hungarian he knew with any interest in it.<br />I also had the pleasure of travelling around Hungary and most of the eastern-bloc countries back in the early 80s, before the wall came down, and found the Hungarian people both worldly and hospitable. It's said that because of their turbulent history, Hungarians approach life realistically and without illusions, and I think I can say this is certainly true based on my own experience.<br />But getting back to the present book, I wanted to mention one other interesting fact about the Hungarians, which is that they are most closely related to the Ostyak tribes of Siberia. The Ostyaks have the distinction of being the only tribes and villages the Communists couldn't take over and subjugate, and their villages remained politically independent of Moscow throughout the entire communist period.	2003-12-25
854031:US	45193257	R1M5D50S4EVZ	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Okay but hardly great	It's amazing how many negative and one-star reviews this book spawned. I myself was tempted to say the title of this book should have been \\"A Staggering Work of Heartbreaking Mediocrity,\\" but actually the book is okay; it's just that it doesn't live up to its very pretentious title. There are some funny and clever things in the book, too, but the title itself might be the cleverest part. Anyway, if you can pick it up used it's worth checking out in case you're one of the people who find it truly worthwhile reading, as some people here apparently did.	2003-12-25
854647:US	45193257	R2QGCIXBD8D7HI	026201078X	461639449	Linguistics, 2nd Edition: An Introduction to Language and Communication	Books	5	76	77	N	N	Excellent intro text	This is the second edition and fourth printing of this popular text by Akmajian, Demers, and Harnish at the University of Arizona. Although this text is now over 15 years old, it's still a fine introduction to the subject. One nice thing about the book is that the prose is not too technical for the beginning reader while providing excellent coverage of the important concepts and technical points. This is often a problem with linguistics texts since, unlike other technical subjects, most people have little or no background in linguistics before taking their first real course in the subject, and having previously learned a foreign language isn't as helpful as many students might think since much of linguistics, especially in the transformational grammar and generative grammar and analytical syntax areas, is a highly technical, formal, and even mathematical discipline now.<br />As I am mainly a neuroscientist and secondarily a linguist, I was most interested in Part 3 of this book. The first two parts present the usual linguistics topics such as phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, language variation, and evolution. Part 3 deals with the area of Psycholinguistics, and there are four chapters discussing language from the standpoint of Cognitive Psychology and Neuropsychology. The four chapters are: Pragmatics: The Study of Language Use and Communication; Speech Production and Comprehension; Language Acquisition in Chimp and Child;, and Language and the Brain. The chapter on the brain might be a little too basic for neuroscience students, but it's an excellent introduction for the linguistics students, and I noticed that a number of the classic experiments such as the famous &quot;Wada test&quot; and dichotic listening experiments were discussed, as well as topics like conduction aphasia, Broca's aphasia, Wernicke's aphasia, hemispheric localization and dominance, and so on.<br />Overall still a fine text and worth picking up used if you can find it, when it will be bargain for the price.e bargain for the price.	2003-12-24
855312:US	45193257	RCWO0YBZVQRPR	0812013980	841667651	Spanish at a Glance: Phrase Book & Dictionary for Travelers (Barron's Languages at a Glance Series) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Surprisingly useful little book	This is a great little Spanish phrase and vocabulary book that is much more useful than I at first thought. In addition to the other features, they do one thing that really makes this a nice little resource. Each chapter contains useful phrases such as \\"Would you please give me _____,\\" with a blank at the end of the phrase, and below it are the other words or phrases you can plug in. Or to give another example: \\"I would like to make a reservation ______,\\" and below it are the words \\"for tonight,\\" \\"for tomorrow evening,\\" \\"at 9 pm,\\" \\"for two persons,\\" and so on. This gives you the applicable phrase and some other possiblities to \\"plug-in,\\" and after that you can make up your own from your own knowledge, now that you know how to construct the key phrase.<br />The book is organized into chapters devoted to specific situations, subjects, and needs, using dynamic and realistic phrases and dialog in the now well-known Berlitz approach, developed by the great Maximilian Berlitz in the mid to late 19th century as an improvement over the traditional rote learning of languages. There are over 1500 useful phrases and over 2000 vocabulary words. The author gives travel and cultural notes for Spain, Mexico, and other Spanish-speaking countries. Chapters are color-coded and are organized by activity, as I mentioned, such as Food and Drink, Going Shopping, Small Talk, Accidents and Repairs, Dating and Socializing, etc. Each of these has a number of subcategories. For example, the section on Entertainment and Diversions has Passive Sports, Active Sports, and under Active Sports has the further subsections of On the Slopes, At the Beach/Pool, Sports Equipment, Camping, On the Links, Tennis, and so on.<br />At the end there is a basic grammar of Spanish in the appendix and a Spanish/English dictionary. Considering the book is only 7 bucks and is over 300 pages long, it's a great value for the amount of information you get.It's small size makes it easily portable and it has a nice protective plastic slipcase, and even the paper is nice, glossy, high-quality paper which is rare in paperbacks these days. Finally, there are maps of Madrid, Barcelona, and Mexico City on the front and back inside covers. I just keep it in my car to read during spare moments to improve my vocabulary. This is a great book to improve your Spanish for specific situations and subjects and as someone else said, combined with a tape course and a Spanish grammar makes an even more valuable addition to your Spanish learning library.ective plastic slipcase, and even the paper is nice, glossy, high-quality paper which is rare in paperbacks these days. Finally, there are maps of Madrid, Barcelona, and Mexico City on the front and back inside covers. I just keep it in my car to read during spare moments to improve my vocabulary. This is a great book to improve your Spanish for specific situations and subjects and as someone else said, combined with a tape course and a Spanish grammar makes an even more valuable addition to your Spanish learning library.	2003-12-23
857035:US	45193257	R2AVNJARO9SW0Z	0764113569	891998480	French Verbs (Barron's Verb Series) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Great little French verbs book	Dr. Kendris is one of the most trusted names for me in the language learning field, and I have a number of books by him, including the Spanish verbs version of this book, and the larger 501 Spanish Verbs book. The two most important features are the over 40 pages of grammar related to verbs that Kendris includes in the introduction to the book, which is the best capsule grammar I've seen for French, and the index of 1000 verbs in the appendix which is keyed to the appropriate model in the 301 verbs section, which makes it useful for even more verbs. Overall, another little winner here from Prof. Kendris, and at over 300 pages and just under 6 bucks, a great value at the price.<br />I had a suggestion for how to use this book. If you're still mastering the verb conjugation patterns, here's an idea. Get a 3x5 card and cover up the table for a verb, then proceed down the page, trying to do the conjugation yourself, then revealing it to see if you were right. Start with the ar-ending verbs and then go on to the er and ir-ending ones, which are similar or the same for many conjugations. Then go on to the irregular ones. Language learning is often a matter of two steps forward, one step back, and this is a great way to drill yourself and put the book to good use.	2003-12-22
857240:US	45193257	R10IH1JKMQSO0P	4770026080	531012718	A Dictionary of Basic Japanese Sentence Patterns (Kodansha Dictionary)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Excellent book on topic	In addition to its extensive lexicon of so-called particles, word order is another thing that differs in Japanese from English, and this book will help you master this important aspect of Japanese grammar. Supposedly, English has only 20 basic sentence patterns because of its fairly regular word order, and according to the author, there are only really 3 in Japanese--Noun, Verb, and Adjective sentences. This book covers 50 basic patterns and 69 variations. The variations are set off by little text boxes throughout the book in which the pattern is illustrated, and then it is discussed in more detail in the text. Polite and informal patterns are shown along with discussions of various issues. The similarities and differences from other patterns are discussed.<br />The intro says the book contains all the patterns needed for the Levels 3 and 4 Japanese Language Proficiency Test. In addition, there is a brief section where terms are defined, and also there is an appendix convering conjugation patterns of 103 verbs. There is a similar chart showing inflections for dozens of adjectives and also &quot;na&quot; adjectives. Adjectives are another major area where Japanese differs from English, and adjectives are conjugated to agree with verbs, rather than declined to agree with nouns as in most Indo-European languages.<br />Here are some examples of what some of the patterns look like, ranging from easy to complex:<br />1) Noun sentences with N2 mo as predicate<br />2) Negative verbs of existence with mo after the subject<br />3) Adjective sentence with topic wa and subject ga<br />4) The subjunctive with V-tara, as in: (Moshi) N1 ga V1-tara (N2 wa) N3 desu/V2-masu<br />5) Indicating habitual action with V koto ga/mo arimasu<br />6) Indirect passive: N ni [intrasitive] / V [passive] - masu<br />The book is over 300 pages and so should contain considerable material for even the intermediate and advanced student of Japanese. Overall, this is an excellent grammar on Japanese syntax that should help you with this important aspect of the language.syntax that should help you with this important aspect of the language.	2003-12-22
857527:US	45193257	RFI23JLU0AWU1	0764113577	538860020	Spanish Verbs (Barron's Verbs Series)	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Wonderful little Spanish verb book	Please note that this is for the second edition of this book, copyright 2001. The previous edition says copyright 1990. I can't tell from the Amazon book page here if this is the first edition or second edition, but the cover design is slightly different from that displayed here from my copy, which I recently purchased, so I mention that just in case.<br />No matter what language you're learning (unless its Turkish, which has 100% regular verbs, or Japanese, which has only two), verbs are usually a major difficulty and stumbling block in learning a foreign language. This is the best compact verb book I've seen for Spanish. The pages VII to XL (7 to 40) in the introduction contain the best capsule grammar of verbs for Spanish I've seen, and is better than the ones I've seen in some of the bigger, beefier grammar books for quickly getting a good grasp of the basics as well as the more complex issues.<br />There are many features I like about this book, but one especially helpful thing the author does is to explain the formal grammatical names for the verb tenses, aspects, and moods and how they are formed in English, along with plenty of examples. For example, many of us have never thought of what the preterit or pluperfect is in English, but Kendris explains this along with many other useful things. Another nice feature is his discussion of how some verbs that express a mental state actually change meaning in the preterit. For example, the sentence, \\"Supe la verdad,\\" means \\"I found out the truth.\\" (Saber, which means to know, changes from \\"know\\" to \\"found\\" in the preterit). And the sentence \\"Pude hacerlo,\\" means \\"I succeeded in doing it.\\" (Poder, which means \\"to be able,\\" means \\"succeeded\\" in the preterit).<br />Other features include extensive lists and coverage of irregular verbs, an index of 1000 verbs keyed to one of the models or patterns of the 300 main verbs in the text, an index of common irregular verbs identified by the infinitive, which allows you to look up which infinitive verb form it belongs to without knowing that initially, and an index of Spanish/English verbs. Each conjugation page contains at least a few examples at the bottom of the page of usages, such as in the Kendris's larger 501 Spanish Verbs book. Overall, an excellent little verb and grammar book for the student of Spanish, and considering the price is only 6 bucks and is over 300 pages long, a great value to boot.k up which infinitive verb form it belongs to without knowing that initially, and an index of Spanish/English verbs. Each conjugation page contains at least a few examples at the bottom of the page of usages, such as in the Kendris's larger 501 Spanish Verbs book. Overall, an excellent little verb and grammar book for the student of Spanish, and considering the price is only 6 bucks and is over 300 pages long, a great value to boot.	2003-12-22
858224:US	45193257	R2HYMVY8HBTFH1	0415226120	172441706	Hungarian: An Essential Grammar (Routledge Essential Grammars)	Books	5	6	14	N	N	Excellent concise grammar	I have to say Routledge is doing a great job with their Essential Grammar series, having previously read their books on Swedish and Danish, and I've also seen the books on Russian, Chinese, and Finnish, which I'll probably get to next.<br />I learned a lot about Hungarian grammar from this book. Hungarian is the most important extant member of the Ugric sub-branch of the Finno-Ugric branch of the Ural-Altaic family, and as such, it deserves to have more resources like this book to encourage its study and scholarship. Many languages preserve complicated systems of both noun classification prefixes and verb prefixes, such as Swahili, or post-fixes, as in the case of Ural-Altaic languages such as Finnish and Estonian, which have 14 and 15 cases, respectively. Hungarian has 20, and some Caucausian languages in southern Russia have over 30. Hungarian is notable for another feature common along Uralic languages like Turkish known as &quot;vowel harmony,&quot; wherein vowels in a word are similar and require similar positions of the tongue to pronounce.<br />I also have to add my own comments to the two excellent ones already posted on this book. I understand what the reader from New York is saying with respect to the case endings, and I also agree with the second reviewer from New York, as they both make important points.<br />I have sometimes felt that the &quot;markerese&quot; of traditional structural linguistics gets out of hand in describing certain languages, but on the other hand, I don't see a viable alternative, either. Many languages preserve complicated systems of both noun classification prefixes and verb prefixes, such as Swahili, which has prefixes, infixes, and postfixes for noun classes, or extensive case systems, as in the Ural-Altaic languages. Finnish and Estonian have 14 and 15 cases, respectively, Hungarian has as many as 24, and some Caucausian languages in Russia have over 30. This is far more than the classical Indo-European languages like Sanskrit, which has 8, Greek, which also has 8, and Latin, which has 6. Contemporary Russian has 6, and German technically has 4. But Finnish has 14 and Estonian has 15, and Hungarian has 20 active cases and may have had 24 in the past, as I said. This makes the case system far more extensive and as a result poses a much greater learning problem for the foreign language speaker.<br />So some sort of structure is required to organize the grammatical material for presentation to the foreign speaker, and I just don't see an alternative, although presenting the real postpositions on equal footing with the case endings would probably help, as the reader from New York suggests. This just means that no language, even Ural-Altaic ones, subsist only on cases and that some pre or postpositions are needed.<br />Anyway, however this debate turns out, I found this to be an excellent, concise grammar and it is one of the few out there I have seen on Hungarian.t, which has 8, Greek, which also has 8, and Latin, which has 6. Contemporary Russian has 6, and German technically has 4. But Finnish has 14 and Estonian has 15, and Hungarian has 20 active cases and may have had 24 in the past, as I said. This makes the case system far more extensive and as a result poses a much greater learning problem for the foreign language speaker. <br />So some sort of structure is required to organize the grammatical material for presentation to the foreign speaker, and I just don't see an alternative, although presenting the real postpositions on equal footing with the case endings would probably help, as the reader from New York suggests. This just means that no language, even Ural-Altaic ones, subsist only on cases and that some pre or postpositions are needed.<br />Anyway, however this debate turns out, I found this to be an excellent, concise grammar and it is one of the few out there I have seen on Hungarian.	2003-12-21
860657:US	45193257	RZOAO3OZHK7ER	0452279062	645099053	Successful Intelligence: How Practical and Creative Intelligence Determine Success in Life	Books	4	26	33	N	N	Excellent discussion of the issues	First, I should mention something of my own background. My academic background is in psychometrics and also neurobiology, where I did my master's and doctoral work. Sternberg is mostly preaching to the choir with me, as I agree with many of his criticisms about the deficiencies of current and past I.Q. tests.<br />That having been said, I am mostly okay current psychometric, statistical, and mathematical theory and practice here, as long as one understands the strengths and limitations of the various approaches. I understand those very well, but most people don't and tend to get hung up on one or another aspect of it without having a systematic grasp of all the psychometric issues. If it weren't for that, books like Sternberg's wouldn't be necessary.<br />Sternberg's definition of successful intelligence is pretty common-sensical, although more difficult to quantify than the abilities typical I.Q. tests measure, but I'm okay with that.<br />However, the bottom line is that the real answers about intelligence are eventually going to come from the brain research areas, which was my main field. The neurobiology doesn't contradict the psychometric approach but does complement it and provides a more rigorous basis for the idea of intelligence and what it consists of. To give you just a brief example of the neurological picture, the human brain contains 60 trillion nerve cells organized into 14,000 major and minor brain centers and pathways, and each nerve cell is connected to between 3,000 and 100,000 other neurons, producing a neural network and web of almost unbelievable compexity. And in the past 50 years, neuroscientists have made considerable progress in understanding the neural basis of intelligence and of higher cognitive abilities, such as language processing and spatial ability, which have been found to be located in the temporal lobe in the case of language processing, and in the right hemisphere in the case of left-hemispheric dominant people (which is most of us).<br />But getting back to Sternberg's concerns, the most egregious and widespread problem with I.Q. testing, of course, is that people hung up on a single I.Q. high or low test score, which might not mean much in isolation, and the system doesn't help that situation since it attaches too much credence to them without understanding the other factors, qualifications, and exceptions to a single I.Q. score that must be taken into account.<br />Sternberg also spends a lot of time discussing examples of people (such as himself), who don't do very well on standard I.Q. tests and about the baleful effect such scores had on their lives. Appropos of that, I can give two much more glaring examples than Sternberg himself, notwithstanding his being a Yale professor, which I am perfectly willing to concede is pretty impressive.<br />In the late teens and 1920s an important Stanford psychologist, Lewis Terman, tested thousands of California schoolchildren to identify those with high I.Q.'s and then to follow them throughout their lives, to see of the early promise of their intelligence was fulfilled. Terman ended up with a group of 1300 children, who he followed from their early years until their deaths. I would suspect many if not all would be dead by now. Until they had passed away, their files remained sealed, and only Terman and his group knew their actual identities.<br />Anyway, many did have impressive careers as writers, scientists, lawyers, teachers, and other professionals. Despite most of them growing up during the depression in the last century, many more of them went to college and onto professional and graduate school than the overall population. That having been said, the test had two major faults or oversights in terms of the selection process: the test, which was the Stanford-Binet, an important and widely used I.Q. test, missed the two Nobel Laureates in physics, Luis Alvarez, and William Shockley. Shockley is familiar to many as the famous inventor of the transistor. Both were tested but fell below the minimum of 140 or a score of 135 for a sibling to be included. And none of the other 1300 children won a Nobel Prize. Hence, the test missed the only two Nobel Laureates in the entire group.<br />Also, James Watson, of Watson and Crick fame, only has an I.Q. of 115, if I remember right, and is the co-discoverer of DNA, for which they shared a Nobel Prize back in the 50's.<br />So obviously, I.Q isn't the whole story. I have many stories myself of people who had much lower test scores than I on any of the standardized tests, whether I.Q., the SAT, the GRE, or whatever, who did just fine in college and grad school and who often got higher grades than I, and who went on to become more successful in real life too. So as I said, Sternberg is sort of preaching to the choir in my case, and overall, I tend to agree with him that I.Q. should not be the overriding determinant in the selection and educational process that it often is, at least not without taking into consideration other factors such as special aptitudes and talents, creative abilities, grades, work and real world experience, self-discipline and willingness to work hard, and so on.ransistor. Both were tested but fell below the minimum of 140 or a score of 135 for a sibling to be included. And none of the other 1300 children won a Nobel Prize. Hence, the test missed the only two Nobel Laureates in the entire group.<br />Also, James Watson, of Watson and Crick fame, only has an I.Q. of 115, if I remember right, and is the co-discoverer of DNA, for which they shared a Nobel Prize back in the 50's.<br />So obviously, I.Q isn't the whole story. I have many stories myself of people who had much lower test scores than I on any of the standardized tests, whether I.Q., the SAT, the GRE, or whatever, who did just fine in college and grad school and who often got higher grades than I, and who went on to become more successful in real life too. So as I said, Sternberg is sort of preaching to the choir in my case, and overall, I tend to agree with him that I.Q. should not be the overriding determinant in the selection and educational process that it often is, at least not without taking into consideration other factors such as special aptitudes and talents, creative abilities, grades, work and real world experience, self-discipline and willingness to work hard, and so on.	2003-12-18
862297:US	45193257	R1N0GRHHWUHJEI	0848822870	422758140	Comrade Don Camillo	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A blast from the past	I read this book when I was only thirteen, which wasn't old enough to grasp all of the subtleties in Guareschi's political and cultural satire and humor, but I did get some of it, despite my basically still being a kid. The book pokes fun at both Italian and Soviet politics through the antics of the irrepressible Comrade Camillo, a mischievous priest who has his own agenda in accepting the invitation to visit the Soviet Union. Guareschi wrote a number of other successful books, including a series of Don Camillo books, but I don't know how many of them were translated into English. If there were, I never saw any of them, but I enjoyed this one, and it now stands as a window into another era of Cold War politics that is rapidly receding in the wake of the Berlin Wall's coming down and now the events of of 9/11.	2003-12-17
862878:US	45193257	R2OHV4WC2LXSMZ	0415082080	202225697	Swedish: A Comprehensive Grammar (Routledge Grammars)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Very well written and comprehensive grammar	There are people who like nothing more than to pick up a book on the grammar of a foreign language and read it, to find out what that language is like and how it works, and I have to admit I'm one of them. We are the nerds of the linguistic universe (although technically, I would say the universal generative and mathematical grammar guys outrank us). But a book like this is enough to transport us to that big linguistic Valhalla in the sky.<br />This is a very detailed, well written, and comprehensive Swedish grammar that should serve the needs of the student and instructor of Swedish and of Germanic languages in general. In addition to the treatment of the grammar, it includes a glossary of linguistic and grammatical terms for those who are a little rusty on the details of their grammar, and who can't recall what a case declension, a subjective complement, or the subjunctive mood is anymore (although that modal construction, as in English, has almost disappeared).<br />I'd previously read Holmes's Swedish: An Essential Grammar, which is also excellent, but this one is even more detailed and comprehensive. As another reviewer observed, there is a dearth of basic resources for people interested in learning Swedish, and this book fills a major gap in the coverage that should be a boon to the most demanding student of the language.	2003-12-16
863146:US	45193257	R390FIPN4ERP4O	0415160480	651503738	Swedish: An Essential Grammar (Routledge Essential Grammars)	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Excellent concise grammar	This is a very well written, interesting, informative, and concise grammar of Swedish. For the hard-core linguist, there is also the Comprehensive Grammar published by Routledge at 95 bucks by Holmes, but this one will do for most people, expecially since it's about 1/6 the price.<br />I learned a lot about Swedish from this book, and it was fun reading it as the similarities between English and Swedish are still very much in evidence. The two languages still share many features in common. Here are some of the ones that I learned from this book:<br />1. There are two levels of syllabic stress in Swedish and four in English. This gives Swedish it's sing-song quality.<br />2. Many words are the same or almost the same. (However, note that the vowel diacritical marks in the Swedish words can't be shown).  These words include: fot (foot),  finger (finger), gras (grass), hus (house), kna (knee), lamm (lamb), oss (us), skarp (sharp), son (son), tva (two), tre (three), and vi (we).<br />3. Both have only the nominative and genitive cases:<br />skepparen i baten  (the skipper of the boat)<br />skepparens katt  (the skipper's cat)<br />4. Both have subject and direct object forms for pronouns:<br />vi  (we)<br />oss  (us)<br />5. The have similar ways of distinguishing adjectives and adverbs:<br />dyr  (dear)<br />dyrst  (dearest)<br />6. There are similar methods for comparing adjectives with inflectional endings:<br />fet  (fat)<br />fetare  (fatter)<br />fettest  (fattest)<br />7. Without inflectional endings, they look like this:<br />mer typisk  (more typical)<br />mest typisk  (most typical)<br />8. Both have weak verbs with dental endings: (i.e., &quot;d&quot; and &quot;t&quot; in the past tense)<br />vi cylcade  (we cycled)<br />de kysste mig  (they kissed me)<br />9. Both have strong verbs with internal vowel changes in the past tense:<br />vi sitter  (we sit)<br />vi satt  (we sat)<br />10. The languages have similar auxiliary verbs:<br />kan, ska, maste  (can, shall, must)<br />de kan komma  (they can come)<br />11. Verb tenses are very similar:<br />vi ar har nu  (we are here now)<br />han har redan kommit  (he has already arrived)<br />12. They have similar use of the formal subject:<br />det ar kallt har  (it is cold here)<br />dett finns ett museum dar  (there is a museum here)<br />13. Both have inverted (verb-subject) word order for questions:<br />var ar vi?  (where are we?)<br />ar du sjuk  (are you sick?)<br />14. Both have only pre-positional adjectives:<br />em warm sommar  (a warm summer)<br />den warma sommaren  (the warm summer)<br />However, lest I give the impression that the languages are exactly alike, I should mention some some important differences between Swedish and English. Swedish is entirely phonetic, whereas English is not. Swedish main clause word order is much more labile and flexible than in English. The sentence often begins with word or words that are not the actual subject, and subject and sentence elements can appear in different positions in both dependent and independent clauses.<br />Nouns have gender in Swedish, but they are either neuter or non-neuter, which is different from the Romance languages, where they are female or male, or in other Germanic languages, like German, where they are male, female, or neuter. Also, adjectives inflect in the definite although not the indefinite declension.<br /> In terms of verb constructions, in modern Swedish there is only one form of the verb for all persons, singular or plural, for all tenses. Like English, Swedish has no continuous form of the verb, and uses auxiliary verbs for the future, perfect, and pluperfect. There are four principle verb conjugation types, with I, II, and III being weak and IV being strong.<br />These are just a few of the many interesting things I learned about Swedish from this book. Overall, this is an excellent concise grammar of Swedish and one of the few mass market paperbacks out there devoted to this important language. For those who are interested, there is also Ake Viberg's brief grammar, Swedish: Essentials of Grammar, that I can recommend also. They are both relatively inexpensive so I would recommend you just buy both, but either one will give you an excellent background in the subject of Swedish grammar.et paperbacks out there devoted to this important language. For those who are interested, there is also Ake Viberg's brief grammar, Swedish: Essentials of Grammar, that I can recommend also. They are both relatively inexpensive so I would recommend you just buy both, but either one will give you an excellent background in the subject of Swedish grammar.	2003-12-16
863227:US	45193257	R3UUG00GKE1E4X	0804816948	39327731	Outrageous Japanese: Slang, Curses & Epithets	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Very funny and entertaining	This is probably the most entertaining book you'll ever find on Japanese, and it's probably the funniest I've seen on any foreign language so far, and I've looked at a lot of language books.<br />The author has over 50 years of experience with Japanese and Japanese culture, including having written over 30 books, and he brings that wealth of experience and a very wry wit and ironic sense of humor to this book. And he's not shy about including some very funny and ribald stories from his younger army days about his first encounters with the seamy side of Japanese culture.<br />For example, \\"Ian-fu\\" means \\"a girl with no elastic in her drawers.\\" This refers to the women who were sent to comfort the men during times of social unrest and war. As Seward says, most of the comforting took place in silence and in the horizontal position. And a \\"baka no baita\\" means an \\"ignorant slut.\\"<br />Besides the above, Japanese has so many words for disparaging someone's intelligence that it would be impossible to list them all, but here is a selection from the book:<br />aho--dumb-ass<br />gutara--addlepated loafer<br />gubutsu--foolish chucklehead (this reminds me of when I was learning Mandarin Chinese, and I was told that a \\"tsao-tao\\" was a \\"stupid, happy person\\"<br />baka--horse-deer (whatever that is) :-)<br />Then there are a few strange curses:<br />Kuso sh_te shine--sh_t and die<br />Kuso sh_te nero--sh_t and go to sleep (one would think going to sleep constipated would be worse)<br />Mama-gon--forever scolding hell-hag of a mother<br />Snakes and turtles come in for a fair amount of abuse in Japanese for some reason, and the phrase, \\"Omae no yo na dongame wo yatou to wa yume ni mo orawenzo,\\" translates as, \\"I would never dream of hiring a dull turtle like you.\\" And \\"deb-game\\" translates as \\"a turtle with buckteeth,\\" meaning \\"a peeping Tom.\\"<br />So overall, a very funny and entertaining book on an aspect of Japanese language and culture that I haven't seen addressed by the many other books I've seen on Japanese.ny other books I've seen on Japanese.	2003-12-16
865929:US	45193257	R1LJDSA84H244L	0844238619	373974711	Teach Yourself Gaelic Complete Course	Books	5	24	31	N	N	Excellent beginner's course in Scottish Gaelic	I've been doing a little research on Celtic languages and linguistics, and I got this course to help out with Gaelic, especially the speaking and pronunciation. This is a course in Scottish Gaelic as opposed to Irish Gaelic in the Teach Yourself Series. I've previously had the TY courses for several languages, such as Spanish and Arabic, and they have all been excellent so far, and this one is no exception. The audio tapes are great for teaching you proper pronunciation, and they put to use the vocabulary and grammar that you learn in the book.<br />Each chapter has vocabulary-building lists, a brief grammar section, and exercises and practice drills. Aspects of the language's grammar are typically introduced in the context of a given conversational requirement, so although the coverage of the grammar isn't systematic and especially technical, it's still good and more than adequate to understand the conversational examples and phrases. For those wanting a more rigorous treatment of the grammar of a language, you'll probably want to pick up a separate grammar to accompany the Teach Yourself courses, which is what I do.<br />To give you a little idea of what I've learned so far (much of it from this particular book), Irish belongs to the Celtic language family, the most western of the Indo-European language groups. It is of interest to linguists since it may preserve features of the original Indo-European proto-language. The family has two branches, the first composed of Gaelic and Manx, which are very similar to each other, and the other branch, composed of Welsh, Breton, and Cornish, but they are too different to be mutually intelligible. Irish is known as Gaeilge, and Welsh is called Cymraeg. Breton and Welsh are grouped together as Brythonic languages, while Irish and Scots Gaelic are grouped together as Goedelic languages. Irish and Scots Gaelic speakers can understand each other with some difficulty and also Welsh and Breton speakers. However, it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, for a Welsh and an Irish speaker to understand each other.<br />Irish and Scots Gaelic, Welsh, and Breton are still alive, but Cornish and Manx have died out. The other Celtic languages that have died out are Galatian (spoken by Celts in central Turkey), Gaulish, and Celtiberian or Hispano-Celtic. The last three were assimilated into the Roman empire. Lastly, there was Pictish, which may or may not have been a real Celtic language.<br />Irish has a relatively small alphabet compared to most European languages, with only 18 letters. One of the ways Irish gets along with such a small alphabet is that there are complex rules relating to combinations of consonants and vowels, with the vowels affecting the pronunciation of the consonants. You'll learn about all of these in the sections  on phonetics and pronunciation.<br />There are several interesting aspects to Irish phonetics. One is that it has what are called slender and broad consonants, or short and long versions of the consonants. An American speaker typically has long consonants, and a Scottish speaker short consonants, but Irish has both. To illustrate this concept, the \\"l\\" in the word \\"leaf\\" would be \\"slender,\\" but in the word \\"feel,\\" broad. Another interesting aspect of Irish phonetics is there are complex rules for mutation of sounds, such as in lenition and eclipsis of consonants. This often happens in the first consonants of verbs and nouns. Lenition means softening, or the replacement of a loud, abrupt sound by a softer hissing or continuous sound, as in the replacement of \\"c\\" by \\"ch.\\" Eclipsis occurs when the sound of a consonant like \\"c\\" is overtaken by the sound of the consonant before it, such as a \\"g.\\" I'm used to this phenomenon being referred to as forward or anterograde assimilation of consonants, and English also has it, as when the \\"s\\" in dogs sounds like a \\"z\\" because it is being assimilated by the voiced \\"g\\" sound. Russian is the reverse, and has regressive or retrograde assimilation of consonants.<br />Irish has masculine and feminine genders, and also something called the genitive singular, which affects different kinds of nouns when they are joined to the previous noun. Irish has similar verb tenses and moods to English, but the habitual past is more important in Irish. There are two perfect present tenses, based on the verbal adjective, or past participle, such as in \\"written,\\" or the verbal noun, or gerund, as in \\"writing.\\" Hence, Irish has present, past, present habitual, past habitual, and future tenses. It also has the imperative, conditional, and subjunctive moods, and there is a passive voice, similar to English and most Indo-European languages.<br />Well, I hope you didn't mind my little digression on Celtic and Irish linguistics, but getting back to the present book, this is an excellent book and audio tape combination for the beginning student of Scottish Gaelic. After completing this course, you'll have an excellent foundation in the language and will be ready to advance to the intermediate level in your studies.ograde assimilation of consonants.<br />Irish has masculine and feminine genders, and also something called the genitive singular, which affects different kinds of nouns when they are joined to the previous noun. Irish has similar verb tenses and moods to English, but the habitual past is more important in Irish. There are two perfect present tenses, based on the verbal adjective, or past participle, such as in \\"written,\\" or the verbal noun, or gerund, as in \\"writing.\\" Hence, Irish has present, past, present habitual, past habitual, and future tenses. It also has the imperative, conditional, and subjunctive moods, and there is a passive voice, similar to English and most Indo-European languages.<br />Well, I hope you didn't mind my little digression on Celtic and Irish linguistics, but getting back to the present book, this is an excellent book and audio tape combination for the beginning student of Scottish Gaelic. After completing this course, you'll have an excellent foundation in the language and will be ready to advance to the intermediate level in your studies.	2003-12-13
867002:US	45193257	R1L7FP8Z1LW6GQ	0844285390	682786940	Essentials of Swedish Grammar: A Practical Guide to the Mastery of Swedish	Books	5	22	33	N	N	Great little Swedish grammar book	This is a very well organized, clear, and concise book on Swedish. As a couple of other reviewers have noted, there aren't that many books available on the subject on the mass market, for some reason, and so your choices are fairly limited, unless you have access to a good college library with more academic linguistic books.<br />Swedish is one of the main Germanic family languages, like English. Supposedly, the language closest to modern-day English is Frisian, a northwest German language, and Frisian and English share features that no other members of the family have, according to an article I read once, although they didn't say specifically what they were. But I do recall that Frisians are sometimes the butt of jokes since they're regarded sort of like \\"Okies\\" or rural, rustic folk in the U.S.<br />Anyway, having studied some German I thought I'd try to learn a little about another Germanic family language, and this book was great for that. Swedish grammar is more complex than English in that it is a more highly inflected language, but it's really no worse than German, so if you have some background in that, you'll be fine.<br />Nouns are declined for number, definiteness vs. indefiniteness, and the nominative and genitive cases. There are five delension patterns depending on the two letters the noun ends with, and a fifth that is just the bare stem word. Adjectives are inflected the same way, and are no longer inflected according to case as in Old Swedish. There are nominative, possessive, and direct object forms for the pronouns.<br />Comparative and superlative forms in Swedish are pretty much idential to English. Adverbs come in three types, plain adverbs, older noun or adjective case forms (mostly datives) which have survived as adverbs, and neuter adjectives used as adverbs. The last group is easy to form from the indefinite neuter singular adjective, which isn't that difficult.<br />Swedish verbs fall into one of five conjugations. The first three of are called \\"weak,\\" because they've undergone reduction historically and lost the older Germanic stem changes. The fourth conjugation is usually referred to as the \\"strong\\" conjugation, and the fifth as the \\"mixed\\" conjugation (since it has a \\"strong\\" imperfect stem, but a \\"weak\\" supine). Strong verbs are those that undergo an internal change in the past tenses, such as in sleep, slept, or sing, sang, sung.<br />Swedish syntax is very similar to English, except for cases when inverted word order is used, similar to what happens in German. Like English, Swedish has some verbs that change their meaning in combination with other words, such as adverbs, as in phrasal verbs, which are constructions like run up a bill, run out of, brush up on, and so on, where the meaning of the word \\"run\\" or \\"brush\\" changes. Unlike English, but like German, the Swedish adverbs and particles can shift between being used as a verb prefix or as separate words.<br />Swedish is one language that has been modelled on a computer since it was regarded as being regular enough to create grammatical macros to produce the grammar. I recently came across an example of such a computer program, and so I thought I'd list the macro for the non-modal auxiliary and finite modal verb-phrase formation rule:<br />(@vp.aux.vp(Aux,V),<br />vp:[@tense.aspect(TenseAspect), ...]) --? (Aux,<br />v:[semanticAux=y, arglist=(V,vp:[...]),<br />@tense.aspect(TenseAspect), ...]) + (V,<br />vp:[vform=(inf\\"/supine), ...].<br />Anyway, not sure I understand that myself but it sure looked cool.<br />But getting back to the present book, this is a very nice little introduction to Swedish with a concise summary of the grammar and how it differs from English. There are lots of useful example sentences in both Swedish and English, some good vocabulary, and finally, not the least of its virtues is that the price is right.alled \\"weak,\\" because they've undergone reduction historically and lost the older Germanic stem changes. The fourth conjugation is usually referred to as the \\"strong\\" conjugation, and the fifth as the \\"mixed\\" conjugation (since it has a \\"strong\\" imperfect stem, but a \\"weak\\" supine). Strong verbs are those that undergo an internal change in the past tenses, such as in sleep, slept, or sing, sang, sung.<br />Swedish syntax is very similar to English, except for cases when inverted word order is used, similar to what happens in German. Like English, Swedish has some verbs that change their meaning in combination with other words, such as adverbs, as in phrasal verbs, which are constructions like run up a bill, run out of, brush up on, and so on, where the meaning of the word \\"run\\" or \\"brush\\" changes. Unlike English, but like German, the Swedish adverbs and particles can shift between being used as a verb prefix or as separate words.<br />Swedish is one language that has been modelled on a computer since it was regarded as being regular enough to create grammatical macros to produce the grammar. I recently came across an example of such a computer program, and so I thought I'd list the macro for the non-modal auxiliary and finite modal verb-phrase formation rule:<br />(@vp.aux.vp(Aux,V),<br />vp:[@tense.aspect(TenseAspect), ...]) --? (Aux,<br />v:[semanticAux=y, arglist=(V,vp:[...]),<br />@tense.aspect(TenseAspect), ...]) + (V,<br />vp:[vform=(inf\\"/supine), ...].<br />Anyway, not sure I understand that myself but it sure looked cool.<br />But getting back to the present book, this is a very nice little introduction to Swedish with a concise summary of the grammar and how it differs from English. There are lots of useful example sentences in both Swedish and English, some good vocabulary, and finally, not the least of its virtues is that the price is right.	2003-12-12
867812:US	45193257	R3QTKUGRFY8VGD	065802129X	24295969	Teach Yourself Irish: Complete Course (Cassette and Book) (English and Irish Edition)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Excellent beginner's book	Irish belongs to the Celtic language family, the most western of the Indo-European language groups. It is of interest to linguists since it may preserve features of the original Indo-European proto-language. The family has two branches, the first composed of Gaelic and Manx, which are very similar to each other, and the other branch, composed of Welsh, Breton, and Cornish, but they are too different to be mutually intelligible. Irish is known as Gaeilge, and Welsh is called Cymraeg. Breton and Welsh are grouped together as Brythonic languages, while Irish and Scots Gaelic are grouped together as Goedelic languages. Irish and Scots Gaelic speakers can understand each other with some difficulty and also Welsh and Breton speakers. However, it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, for a Welsh and an Irish speaker to understand each other.<br />Irish and Scots Gaelic, Welsh, and Breton are still alive, but Cornish and Manx have died out. The other Celtic languages that have died out are Galatian (spoken by Celts in central Turkey), Gaulish, and Celtiberian or Hispano-Celtic. The last three were assimilated into the Roman empire. Lastly, there was Pictish, which may or may not have been a real Celtic language.<br />One of the first things students notice is the odd spelling of Irish words. This is because there are only 18 letters in the Irish alphabet. This isn't many letters compared to English's 26, Arabic's 29, Bulgarian's 30, Russian's 33, Hungarian's 44, Japanese's 52, or Chinese's thousands of characters (however, there are only about 220 basic characters, or radicals), but Malaysian still has less at 14.<br />One of the ways Irish gets along with such a small alphabet is that there are complex rules relating to combinations of consonants and vowels, with the vowels affecting the pronunciation of the consonants. You'll learn about all these in the first chapter, which is on phonetics and pronunciation.<br />To discuss the phonetics a little more, Irish has short and long vowels like English, but unlike English it has both long and short consonants, called slender and broad. If you are an American or Scottish speaker your consonants are all broad, but if you are Welsh or Irish your consonants are likely all slender, but old Irish has both slender and broad types. To give an example of this, the \\"l\\" in \\"leaf\\" is slender, but the \\"l\\" in \\"feel\\" is broad, and the word \\"little\\" has a slender initial \\"l\\" and a broad second \\"l.\\"<br />Another interesting aspect of Irish phonetics is there are complex rules for mutation of sounds, such as in lenition and eclipsis of consonants, which I alluded to earlier. This often happens in the first consonants of verbs and nouns. Lenition means softening, or the replacement of a loud, abrupt sound by a softer hissing or continuous sound, as in the replacement of \\"c\\" by \\"ch.\\" Eclipsis occurs when the sound of a consonant like \\"c\\" is overtaken by the sound of the consonant before it, such as a \\"g.\\" I'm used to this phenomenon being referred to as forward or anterograde assimilation of consonants, and English also has it, as when the \\"s\\" in dogs sounds like a \\"z\\" because it is being assimilated by the voiced \\"g\\" sound. Russian is the reverse, and has regressive or retrograde assimilation of consonants.<br />Although Irish and Scots Gaelic are relatively difficult to pronounce for English speakers, Welsh isn't and is very similar to Spanish in that the spelling is completely phonetic.<br />However, this book does an excellent job of covering Irish pronunciation and there is an extensive chapter covering the differences between Irish and English sounds. After the first chapter, the remaining 20 chapters deal with phrases for practical situations that one encounters while travelling of the sort used in a typical Berlitz book, with the grammar being introduced as you go along. I would prefer a more systematic treatment of the grammar, and there is a 15-page section covering the grammar in the appendix of the book. But in the conversation chapters the various aspects of the grammar are just discussed as you go along.<br />Irish has masculine and feminine genders, and also something called the genitive singular, which affects different kinds of nouns when they are joined to the previous noun. Irish has similar verb tenses and moods to English, but the habitual past is more important in Irish. There are two perfect present tenses, based on the verbal adjective, or past participle, such as in \\"written,\\" or the verbal noun, or gerund, as in \\"writing.\\" Hence, Irish has present, past, present habitual, past habitual, and future tenses. It also has the imperative, conditional, and subjunctive moods, and there is a passive voice, similar to English and most Indo-European languages. Interestingly, the only exception to this is Basque, which does not have a passive voice. Basque is also the only language in Europe that is ergative-absolutive rather than nominative-accusative in terms of the case system. What this means is that the subject of an intransitive verb is declined the same way as the direct object of a transitive verb. The subject of ergativity is a very interesting one and worth reading up on in the chapter on it in a good general or structural linguistics book.<br />But getting back to the present book, this is an excellent, basic introduction to Irish and also has the advantage of the optional set of tapes that will help you with speaking and pronunciation. If you're like me, you'll want a fuller treatment of the grammar, but this is a fine beginning book and you can always pick up a more rigorous grammar later when you're a few chapters into this book and are ready for it.ix of the book. But in the conversation chapters the various aspects of the grammar are just discussed as you go along.<br />Irish has masculine and feminine genders, and also something called the genitive singular, which affects different kinds of nouns when they are joined to the previous noun. Irish has similar verb tenses and moods to English, but the habitual past is more important in Irish. There are two perfect present tenses, based on the verbal adjective, or past participle, such as in \\"written,\\" or the verbal noun, or gerund, as in \\"writing.\\" Hence, Irish has present, past, present habitual, past habitual, and future tenses. It also has the imperative, conditional, and subjunctive moods, and there is a passive voice, similar to English and most Indo-European languages. Interestingly, the only exception to this is Basque, which does not have a passive voice. Basque is also the only language in Europe that is ergative-absolutive rather than nominative-accusative in terms of the case system. What this means is that the subject of an intransitive verb is declined the same way as the direct object of a transitive verb. The subject of ergativity is a very interesting one and worth reading up on in the chapter on it in a good general or structural linguistics book.<br />But getting back to the present book, this is an excellent, basic introduction to Irish and also has the advantage of the optional set of tapes that will help you with speaking and pronunciation. If you're like me, you'll want a fuller treatment of the grammar, but this is a fine beginning book and you can always pick up a more rigorous grammar later when you're a few chapters into this book and are ready for it.	2003-12-12
868335:US	45193257	R1VOFTND3GMAXF	0844271012	92644898	Conversando En Ingles : English Conversational Grammar for Spanish Speakers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent and quite inexpensive too	I am a native English speaker who's studying Spanish for the first time since the two years I had it in school, which was at least a couple of decades ago at this point. This book is designed for Spanish speakers who want to improve their English, but after a couple of months of intense self-study, I'd reached the point where I could read this book pretty well. It's been very helpful to see English from &quot;the other side&quot; starting out with the the most useful English expressions and grammar, and then see them discussed from the standpoint of the Spanish.<br />The verb and grammar tables were especially interesting since they assume and start with Spanish as the &quot;normal&quot; state of affairs, and then discuss how English differs from it. I found this quite refreshing and enjoyed seeing English from a different viewpoint from the perspective of the grammar, as I have a pretty good background in grammar and general linguistics, but haven't thought about English that much compared to some other languages.<br />The book is just over 200 pages long and has 61 brief sections discussing various aspects of English, from grammar to phonetics to practical phrases and conversation. There are dozens of tables illustrating various aspects of English grammar, especially the verb system, and how it differs from Spanish. For example, one main difference is English's use of helping verbs and modal auxiliaries, which allow the use of so-called periphrastic verbal constructions for these functions, which is different from Spanish and French and the other Romance family languages.<br />The book also includes hundreds of useful phrases, several  vocabulary lists with Spanish phonetic equivalents, numerous example sentences to translate, and many other practical exercises such as word substitution and sentence-completion drills, a list of over 130 of the most common irregular verbs in English, a list of the most common irregular adjectives in English, and lists of new words and expressions to expand your vocabulary. Overall, a very nice little book and a great value at the price considering it's only eight bucks.s and expressions to expand your vocabulary. Overall, a very nice little book and a great value at the price considering it's only eight bucks.	2003-12-11
871602:US	45193257	R1JFD9UYPD7K0R	0764124293	652020059	501 French Verbs (Barron's 501 French Verbs)	Books	5	17	33	N	N	Still excellent although check the alternatives too	French is one of the world's great languages, but it would be even greater if it weren't spoken by the French. :-) (Sorry about that, but I couldn't resist).<br /><br />On a more serious note, this is one of the venerable 501 Verbs books that have become a staple of many students of foreign language. These are great books, and the layout of the tables is the easiest on the eye of all the verb books out there that I've seen.<br /><br />That having been said, I have a preference for the 2000 Essential French Verbs volume over this one, although I don't like the layout and the design as much. The font is a little too small, for one thing, and the tables just aren't as aesthetic-looking as the 501 book.<br /><br />However, one major advantage the 2000 Verbs book has is the long section after the verb tables discussing the grammar and usage for dozens of French verbs in much more detail than can be done on the verb table pages. Many more example sentences and of usage are included, along with practice exercises that are helpful too. The 501 Verbs books also contain several example sentences at the bottom of each page, but the 2000 Essential French Verbs book has many more.<br /><br />The way the book works is that there are only tables for about 250 French verbs, but in the back is an index of 2000 French verbs keyed to the correct page for that verb pattern, and you just turn to that. That also saves paper and makes the book less thick and unwieldy than the 501 book although it actually is useful for many more verbs.<br /><br />One thing the 501 book has, however, is a pretty good section on idiomatic uses of French verbs, and dozens of examples of sample conversations similar to the Berlitz models of using simulated conversations in practical situations.<br /><br />So the 501 French Verbs book is still a great volume, however, although I could possibly do without the use of color over the earlier edition since I'm not sure it's not more of a distraction than a help, but it's okay. But I recommend checking out the 2000 Essential French Verbs book also because of its features, in case you find you prefer that.00 Essential French Verbs book also because of its features, in case you find you prefer that.	2003-12-09
871702:US	45193257	R27IJ22W3RZLMQ	0764120611	351759063	Japanese Grammar (Barron's Grammar Series)	Books	5	71	77	N	N	Nice  little Japanese grammar, and the price is right	Considering this book is over 240 pages long despite it's small size, and does a very nice job with the grammar, and is only 7 bucks to boot, it's a pretty good deal. It's small size makes it very portable and it would practically fit in your pocket.<br />The author includes separate chapters on all the parts of speech, nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, and so on, and most of the book is taken up by those aspects of the grammar.<br />At the back of the book there is a Special Topics section. These include chapters or sections on Numbers, Telling Time, Classifiers, Days, Months, Seasons, and the Weather, Family Relationships, Useful Phrases, Borrowed Words (mainly from Chinese), Synonyms, Antonyms, Short and Long Vowels, Double Consonants, Same Pronunciation but Different Meaning (for 25 words), Different Pitch, Different Meaning (for 16 words), and a 250-word vocabulary list at the very back.<br />The beginning of the book has chapters on pronunciation and phonetics, word order, and the Japanese writing system. The font is color-coded for certain things, which some people may find easier on the eye. I sort of wish language books, like the 501 Verbs books that are so well-known, wouldn't do this,  but it's probably okay for most people.<br />Japanese has one great advantage over the typical Indo-European language in that it has almost 100% regular verbs. There are only two that are irregular. (Turkish is one of the few languages I've seen with no irregular verbs). It lacks many of the tenses European and other languages have, and it lacks a true future tense. There is no case system such as in German, Russian, Latin, and Greek.<br />However, it makes up for that in the complexity of its modal verbs or mood constructions, which signify conditionality, probability, unrcentainty, or the attitude of the speaker toward the subject. And the particle system, which serves diverse functions, from modifying the meanings of verbs to marking the subject or topic of a sentence, is also something very foreign to Indo-European language speakers, and is perhaps the most distinguishing feature of the language.<br />Another odd aspect of Japanese that is very different from most languages is that adjectives actually belong to verbs rather than nouns and are inflected to agree with them.<br />A small grammar like this can't give you everything you need to know about these topics, but this little grammar is still a nice, compact resource, and as I said, the price is right. I you get a book on the particle system, such as A Dictionary of Japanese Particles, by Sue A. Kawashima, which treats 100 of the most important particles, you should be in pretty good shape.sentence, is also something very foreign to Indo-European language speakers, and is perhaps the most distinguishing feature of the language.<br />Another odd aspect of Japanese that is very different from most languages is that adjectives actually belong to verbs rather than nouns and are inflected to agree with them. <br />A small grammar like this can't give you everything you need to know about these topics, but this little grammar is still a nice, compact resource, and as I said, the price is right. I you get a book on the particle system, such as A Dictionary of Japanese Particles, by Sue A. Kawashima, which treats 100 of the most important particles, you should be in pretty good shape.	2003-12-09
872512:US	45193257	R2XG8DCICE2FVK	0071419829	294796727	Teach Yourself Beginner's Arabic Script	Books	5	66	66	N	N	Great beginner's book	Learning Arabic presents several diffculties for the non-native, the first of which is the alphabet, or more accurately, script. This is because, unlike English and other European languages, there is no true printed form for the language, being a true script. The main problem with it is that the letters change their form depending on the context.<br />At 155 pages, this is almost a mini-course on Arabic, not just on the script, but the overall focus is on teaching you the script, and for that it serves very well. But for someone who doesn't want to have a lot of extra vocabulary or grammar piled on initially, I would recommend the Nicholas Awde and Putros Samano book, The Arabic Alphabet, instead.<br />I have a slight personal preference for that book over this one, as it focuses more on the script and doesn't worry about the more advanced grammatical topics, which really require a separate volume. As a result, it's shorter and to the point and is only 100 pages long. But both books are excellent and do their job very well. I just think this one would better suited someone who enjoys learning languages and already has skills or training in that area.<br />If that sounds like you, then this book will give you a little more basic Arabic vocabulary and grammar in the process of teaching you the script than the Awde book, and the author does a fine job of explaining all the concepts clearly and concisely. There are sections on verbs, nouns, adjectives, pronouns, and how they are formed, as well as other aspects of the grammar.<br />The author also discusses basic phonetics and phonology, and how the vowels and consonants of Arabic differ from English. One odd aspect of the phonetic notation is the number \\"9\\" is used for the Arabic glottal stop. I've seen this in one other Arabic beginner's book. It's not standard notation but it's okay for a beginner's book, as long as you know what it means. The author defines it, but I missed that somehow and kept seeing these 9's all over the place, and I finally figured out what it was.<br />As both books point out, the main problem in learning the Arabic script is the letters change their form depending on their position in the word, in other words, on whether they're at the beginning, middle, or end of the word. Then there is the infamous \\"Hamzah,\\" or diacritical mark, which can appear over various letters in the word, and can float around a lot. The rules for this get very complicated, and most Arabic speakers don't even know all of them, but the basic principles aren't hard to learn. This makes it very similar in English to the apostrophe, which causes problems for English speakers also. Just these two things can make the alphabet a trying experience to learn initially for the foreign-language speaker.<br />Both the Awde and Samanos or this book are excellent and will help you clear that initial hurdle of learning the alphabet that must be overcome before you can really embark on a serious study of Arabic grammar and language. If you're flush I'd say buy both books, since they complement and reinforce each other, and they're not that expensive to begin with.<br />Despite the difficulty with the alphabet/script, Arabic has very regular verb constructions, and dictionaries in fact can refer to them by numbers I-X. The three cases Arabic posseses, the nominative, accusative, and jussive, are really no longer used in actual conservation, and you're only likely to find them in scholarly discourse or in the Koran. This makes the case system no more complex than Spanish or English or French, which is a big help there. In contrast, Russian still has six cases and German technically has four.<br />Overall, a fine beginner's book that is almost an essential supplement to any course in Arabic, especially if you're going the self-study route (as I am).l over the place, and I finally figured out what it was. <br />As both books point out, the main problem in learning the Arabic script is the letters change their form depending on their position in the word, in other words, on whether they're at the beginning, middle, or end of the word. Then there is the infamous \\"Hamzah,\\" or diacritical mark, which can appear over various letters in the word, and can float around a lot. The rules for this get very complicated, and most Arabic speakers don't even know all of them, but the basic principles aren't hard to learn. This makes it very similar in English to the apostrophe, which causes problems for English speakers also. Just these two things can make the alphabet a trying experience to learn initially for the foreign-language speaker. <br />Both the Awde and Samanos or this book are excellent and will help you clear that initial hurdle of learning the alphabet that must be overcome before you can really embark on a serious study of Arabic grammar and language. If you're flush I'd say buy both books, since they complement and reinforce each other, and they're not that expensive to begin with.<br />Despite the difficulty with the alphabet/script, Arabic has very regular verb constructions, and dictionaries in fact can refer to them by numbers I-X. The three cases Arabic posseses, the nominative, accusative, and jussive, are really no longer used in actual conservation, and you're only likely to find them in scholarly discourse or in the Koran. This makes the case system no more complex than Spanish or English or French, which is a big help there. In contrast, Russian still has six cases and German technically has four.<br />Overall, a fine beginner's book that is almost an essential supplement to any course in Arabic, especially if you're going the self-study route (as I am).	2003-12-08
874384:US	45193257	R3A7G7FRODH6JZ	140002031X	48927185	Spanish Complete Course: Basic-Intermediate, Compact Disc Edition (LL(R) Complete Basic Courses)	Books	4	75	76	N	N	Good but needs supplementing	I have the five-CD version of this course, so I thought I'd post it here under the three-CD version, since I couldn't find it listed on Amazon.<br />This is considered one of the better all-audio courses. It doesn't seem have the big-name recognition of the well-known Michel Thomas or the Pimsleur audio courses, but it's a fraction of the cost of those, and it's fine for building basic conversation skills without getting too immersed in the grammar.<br />However, I strongly recommend you supplement the audio course with a good grammar book, as it's impossible to really get a good grasp of Spanish without some grounding in the grammar, since there are too many things that are different from English, such as the subjunctive mood, and the fact that the tenses for the conditional and future tense, along with the subjunctive moods, are mostly formed in the Latin manner with suffixation, which has disappeared in English in favor of auxiliaries and modal auxiliaries, although English has it for the basic imperfect and preterite tense.<br />Also, although there are pauses in the audio material so you can try to imitate the native speaker, there's no feedback so you don't really know how well you're doing. I also have the 8-CD Instant Immersion Spanish computer-based course, which has a digital speech analyzer that allows you to record your own pronunciation and compare it to the native speaker's. This is very helpful and I would really recommend, especially if you're studying on your own without a teacher, to get a course that does that in addition to an audio course such as this one. I also have the Complete Spanish Learning Suite in five CD's by Transparent Language, which has similar capabilities. Either of these courses are a good choice for this, and they also include many other multi-media features that are impossible to implement in an audio-only course.<br />I also have a couple of the other more traditional audio courses, such as the Foreign Language Service Institute's Level I and II Spanish classes, and they are also excellent. The big difference between them and the present course is the Living Language course doesn't come with the 650+ page manual that allows you to follow along with the spoken dialog and also explains the grammar as you go along. However, again, the Living Language course is almost one-third the cost of the FLSI course with its 12 tapes and big manual/workbook.<br />I mention the pronunciation issue because of the following problems. Spanish has only two levels of syllabic stress, as opposed to English's four. Also, English does not have the same pattern of what's called minimal vowel contrast under weak stress that Spanish does. These are considered very serious pronunciation errors in Spanish and can result in your not being understood, not just sounding like you have a strong accent. So it's important to correct these errors right from the start. However, the FLSI course is the only one so far (and I've looked at about a dozen Spanish courses) that actually discusses it, although again, it doesn't have the digital speech analyzer since it's a tape or CD-based course like the present one.<br />So overall, a good course for the relatively modest price although you will need the grammar as I said and also the digital-speech capability to aid with the pronunciation.tute's Level I and II Spanish classes, and they are also excellent. The big difference between them and the present course is the Living Language course doesn't come with the 650+ page manual that allows you to follow along with the spoken dialog and also explains the grammar as you go along. However, again, the Living Language course is almost one-third the cost of the FLSI course with its 12 tapes and big manual/workbook.<br />I mention the pronunciation issue because of the following problems. Spanish has only two levels of syllabic stress, as opposed to English's four. Also, English does not have the same pattern of what's called minimal vowel contrast under weak stress that Spanish does. These are considered very serious pronunciation errors in Spanish and can result in your not being understood, not just sounding like you have a strong accent. So it's important to correct these errors right from the start. However, the FLSI course is the only one so far (and I've looked at about a dozen Spanish courses) that actually discusses it, although again, it doesn't have the digital speech analyzer since it's a tape or CD-based course like the present one.<br />So overall, a good course for the relatively modest price although you will need the grammar as I said and also the digital-speech capability to aid with the pronunciation.	2003-12-07
874388:US	45193257	R1HSWMMPL2RYLG	0452008700	507637067	The Story of Language (Meridian)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Still a classic introduction	The late Mario Pei was professor of comparative romance philology at Columbia University, and this book is still one of the few introductions to linguistics that is accessible by the layman. There's not much on Chomskyan transformational grammar and other very technical topics in linguistics, but that's okay, there is a lot to learn about the basic structure and nature of language before one should be tackling Chomsky.<br />This includes basic concepts about grammar and the parts of speech, the basic principles of word morphology, phonetics, and phonology, language change and evolution, structural linguistics and de Saussure's important and influential ideas in the area, understanding the major language families and how they differ from each other, and the same for the individual languages in your own language group, and so on.<br />Pei discusses these topics in the non-technical and easy to understand way that he was known for. All in all it's still a useful book for the non-specialist. After this you should try a real college-level introductory linguistics text if you're willing to take the next step. After that, or maybe after reading another one or two books on general linguistics, such as Sturtevant's Introduction to Linguistic Science, I recommend John Lyons' great classic, Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics. It's out of print but worth picking up if you can find a used copy. If Lyons's book isn't available then try Donna Jo Napoli's more recent text.<br />After reading Lyons's book, you'll be ready to start tackling real professional research literature and books in the field, and getting a good, solid book on transformational grammar theory would probably be the next step to do after that. But even if you stop with Pei's book and don't go on to other more advanced readings, you'll still have gained a new appreciation for language and the fascinating science that is linguistics.	2003-12-07
875391:US	45193257	R2BE0NCE4UHDS2	0062760572	879271922	Harper Collins Spanish Dictionary:  Spanish-English  English-Spanish (Concise Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Best value for price I've seen in a dictionary so far	Foreign language dictionaries are one of the few new book bargains left, since you can often get a decent paperback one for under ten bucks. Unless you need one with hundreds of thousands of entries, or one that includes specialized scientific, technical, medical, or financial and business vocabularies, you can usually get by with one of the cheaper ones.<br />Note that this review is for the British edition, which was titled Collins Spanish Dictionary PLUS Grammar, but it was published in the U.S. under the above title, so it's the same except for that.<br />So far this seems to be an excellent dictionary. It's 1300 pages long, which makes it a pretty thick book for a paperback. In addition to the dictionary, it includes a 300-page grammar of Spanish. The grammar discusses all the major verb tenses, indicative, preterite, future, conditional, progressive tenses, and the subjunctive, and so on, the last of which is a problem for English speakers since it doesn't exist much there anymore.<br />The grammar section has over 70 verb tables showing the complete conjugation for that verb, and an index of 2800 verbs cross-referenced to the appropriate conjugation table. The grammar section also includes hundreds examples of verbs governing a preposition in Spanish and how they are used, idiomatic usages of verbs, the differences between Ser and Estar, translation problems encountered, and Spanish phonetics and pronunciation. Of course there are sections on nouns, adjectives, articles, conjunctions, and the other parts of speech, too, but verbs and prepositions are usually the main difficulty encountered by English speakers in Spanish.<br />The front of the dictionary also includes a list of dozens of common abbreviations, a second section on Spanish pronunciation, and how to express numbers, times, and dates in Spanish. I couldn't find a mention of how many words are actually in the dictionary, but the editorial review above says that there are 195,000 entries and translations, which should be enough for all but the most fluent speakers or those needing specialized vocabulary. There are facts on Spanish life and culture, although I haven't been able to figure out where in the dictionary that is yet, but it might have something to do with the boxes of text that are set apart from the rest of the text throughout the dictionary. These also appear in the English-to-Spanish portion of the dictionary, but curiously, they're in Spanish there too so it's hard to understand them unless you're fluent.<br />I also have the Collins electronic dictionary on CD, and it's excellent also. One thing that's nice about the CD-based one is it will pronounce the words for you. You have to install the pronunciation generator separately from the main dictionary, and I don't recall it asking about that during the initial installation, but anyway, it's there if you want it. Another advantage over a printed dictionary is lookup is almost instantaneous. You just start typing in the word and it pops to the place. Often you don't even need to type in the complete word. Another great feature of the electronic dictionary is that you can right click on any word in the definition section and it pops you to that definition in the text, which is great for going to a word that given as a synonym, or a word that you don't know when a phrase with the word is given.<br />One thing you'll notice about electronic dictionaries is all the color-coding and different colors used. I'm not sure if this is more of a distraction than a help so far, but anyway, it's the way they do it. This one uses at least six colors--light blue, dark blue, yellow, green, purple, and black. The way this works is the word you're looking up is in light blue, the abbreviation for the part of speech is in yellow, the phonetic pronunciation is in green, and the definition is in black. Dark blue seems to be used to state which verb form the word is from, or examples of usage, as the definition often includes phrases showing how the word is used. I'm still not sure what purple is for, but purple seems to denote similar words or synonyms, examples of Brit. or American usage, whether it's a specialized term, such as NAUT (nautical), and other things. The first word on a page at the top left of the program window is always in red, so that's all there is to that.<br />Collins maintains what it calls &quot;word banks&quot; of Spanish and English, which are electronic databases of over 400 million words of contemporary Spanish and English usage, and presumably this dictionary is based on that, and which Collins considers a valuable resource.ludes phrases showing how the word is used. I'm still not sure what purple is for, but purple seems to denote similar words or synonyms, examples of Brit. or American usage, whether it's a specialized term, such as NAUT (nautical), and other things. The first word on a page at the top left of the program window is always in red, so that's all there is to that.<br />Collins maintains what it calls &quot;word banks&quot; of Spanish and English, which are electronic databases of over 400 million words of contemporary Spanish and English usage, and presumably this dictionary is based on that, and which Collins considers a valuable resource.	2003-12-06
889270:US	45193257	R1B5CFW4EQWX1R	1591500052	478850921	Instant Immersion Japanese	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent program	I have the version of this set with the 8 CD's, which includes 5 CD's of multi-media lesson materials, and 3 CD's of audio material. This is a lot of stuff, as there are about 120 exercies just on the 5 multi-media based disks, which is probably equivalent to at least the first year of study and maybe the first two years.<br />Although there are a lot of nice features to this course, the most useful thing is the ability to record your own voice and compare your pronunciation with the native speaker's using the digital speech analyzer technology. It takes a little while to learn how to use it effectively, but you'll pick that up with a little practice. This is a very cool feature and was extremely helpful.<br />The other multi-media exercises include answering questions based on a video that you're shown with a running narration, multiple-choice questions where you respond verbally as well as in written form (using the phonetic transliterations, of course), synonym and antonym vocabulary-matching drills, word-order drills for both speaking and writing, pronunciation exercises for individual letters, words, and phrases, grammar discussions, and even crossword puzzles. Each CD has two series of review exercises which you can choose to go through or not as you please. The course is also customizable in terms of speaking, writing, reading, in terms of which exercises you want to complete. For example, if your main interest is speaking and don't care about writing, you can deselect those exercises in the configuration menu. There is also a \\"daily diary\\" function that tracks your progress as you go. You can also adjust such things as whether the program gives you hints or clues, how fast the native speaker speaks, and so on.<br />Another nice aspect of this program is that a lot of thought has gone into designing the computer interface. For example, If you forget a word during a drill or don't know a word, you can just put the mouse cursor on it and a definition pops up. I found myself using this feature quite often during the various exercises. You can also just pop over to the dictionary from there and back if you want to.<br />This program really is like being in your own personalized classroom environment, and another major advantage is you can progress at your own pace. I usually try to put in an hour a day regularly on the class. I would estimate this will still take you 4-6 months to complete the entire CD course.<br />A brief word about using the program on your computer. Only one of the CD's actually installs on your hard disk, which is the Install/Beginner disk. After that, when you're finished with that disk and are ready to move onto the Beginner 2 one, the Intermediate disk, and so on, you just put the new one in and the program starts from there. I would prefer that the entire course just install on your hard disk, since it runs faster that way, but it's okay the way it is.<br />I am enjoying this course and all in all it's a feature-packed and effective program that will get you up to an intermediate level of proficiency quickly and will prepare you for more advanced language study after completing this one.found myself using this feature quite often during the various exercises. You can also just pop over to the dictionary from there and back if you want to.<br />This program really is like being in your own personalized classroom environment, and another major advantage is you can progress at your own pace. I usually try to put in an hour a day regularly on the class. I would estimate this will still take you 4-6 months to complete the entire CD course.<br />A brief word about using the program on your computer. Only one of the CD's actually installs on your hard disk, which is the Install/Beginner disk. After that, when you're finished with that disk and are ready to move onto the Beginner 2 one, the Intermediate disk, and so on, you just put the new one in and the program starts from there. I would prefer that the entire course just install on your hard disk, since it runs faster that way, but it's okay the way it is. <br />I am enjoying this course and all in all it's a feature-packed and effective program that will get you up to an intermediate level of proficiency quickly and will prepare you for more advanced language study after completing this one.	2003-11-24
889648:US	45193257	R2PG9M2MGKDUHS	0071381643	644109730	Spanish With Michel Thomas (Deluxe Language Courses with Michel Thomas)	Books	5	66	67	N	N	Great course for the beginner	Michel Thomas's, the Pimsleur series, and the Barron's version of the Foreign Service Institute course are the three top-selling courses on Spanish, and I did extensive research on the various high end courses before buying his. I don't have the Pimsleur one but I did buy the U.S. Foreign Service Insitute course in addition to Thomas's, and so I thought I'd make a few comments by way of comparing them in case you find them useful in choosing the right course for you.<br />I have to say Thomas is a gifted teacher and he has a very interesting approach requiring no notes or rote memorization. He also stresses the importance of a natural, stress-free learning environment. Thomas is a savvy guy here as this is probably one of the major stumbling blocks for the new language learner, and so he puts the student at ease right from the very beginning--a nice touch there and I give him points for that.<br />The second cornerstone to Thomas's method is the simulated classroom environment where you work along with two other people in the class, a man and a woman. The third, and perhaps most important aspect of Thomas's course is his memorization and note-free system of learning. Thomas starts with very simple sentences and builds up from there so the student acquires the syntax almost intuitively as he goes along. Thomas also discusses differences in pronunciation as he goes, too.<br />You build vocabulary as you go along also, with Thomas empasizing cognates or words that are almost identical in the two languages initially. Overall, Thomas has done a very nice job here and I can see why people like Woody Allen and others say that his course is the only one that's ever worked for them.<br />The Foreign Service Institute course is more traditional but also very good, and I like it, too. The audio tapes present the sentences and conversations while you follow along with the manual/workbook, which provides the translations. The workbook is very extensive and also has a more detailed discussion of the grammar than you'll get with either the Thomas or Pimsleur courses. There is an advantage to this since, although I think Thomas's method is probably fine for teaching the basic verb conjugations, such as present, past, and future, you're really not going to get a good idea of how the several subjective moods work in Spanish without some systematic study of the grammar there. English has the subjunctive, but it's practical a vestigial construction, but Spanish has it in spades and is a very active part of the language.<br />On a side note, it would be interesting to see how Thomas's approach would work for a language with much simpler grammar than Spanish or French, such as Turkish or Japanese. Turkish has the wonderful distinction of being one of the few languages with no irregular verbs, and Japanese only has two. So at least as far as the verbal systems are concerned, they are much less complex than your typical European language, and the Indo-European languages in general. There are a few other more technical aspects to the two languages, of course, such as the case system in Turkish (which Japanese doesn't have), but verb conjugations are usually the most difficult aspects of the languages in most of the popular European ones because of all the irregular forms. And Spanish has at least 22 common verbs that are irregular in at least the present indicative tense, and many are irregular in several other ways.<br />One other thing the Institute course does is to provide substitution drill sections where you're required to substitute a particular word, and then give the sentence, with any needed changes. This is useful for practicing the verb conjugations and other things. I have a pretty strong background in grammar and linguistics in general so I don't mind slogging through dry discussions of grammar too much, but if you're not someone who enjoys that sort of thing, Thomas's approach may be the one for you. Overall, this is an excellent coursefrom a talented teacher with a unique approach to language learning.from a talented teacher with a unique approach to language learning.	2003-11-24
890170:US	45193257	R27GN3D0PHHLMO	0658014870	62031815	The Big Red Book of Spanish Verbs: 555 Fully Conjugated Verbs	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Excellent book on Spanish verbs	For me this book slightly edges out the now venerable 501 Spanish Verbs book, because it includes more examples of usages at the bottom of each page, and the 501 book doesn't have as many of these. There is also a nice list of the Top 50 Spanish verbs which is useful.<br />On the con side, I didn't like the visual layout on the page quite as much as the 501 book, and that book also includes the progressive conjugations using estar at the very bottom of the verb tables on each page. This isn't a big deal since this pattern doesn't change once you understand it, but it's still nice to have.<br />One other feature the 501 book has is a good section on the idiomatic uses of some of the verbs, and a fairly extensive section of conversations in different topic areas using the well-known Berlitz method. There are dozens of these at the end of the book. If you already have a book that does that, you won't need this one, but it's here if you want it. Despite these features, as I said, I still prefer the Big Red book slightly, and the two are the same price, so there's no reason to prefer one over the other there.<br />There is one other &quot;big gun&quot; in the Spanish verbs area, which is the 2000 Essential Spanish Verbs book. This one only includes about 250 tables of verbs, but there is an index which extends that to 2000 different verbs, since you just look up the verb in the index and it directs you to the correct pattern. However, this book has one major advantage over the Big Red and 501 books. It has an extensive section on the grammar of the 65 most important verbs, including many of the irregular ones, with a detailed discussion and a practice sectioni for each. I thought this was a very nice feature and so that book is worth your consideration also. I actually prefer that book to either of these, although the print is much smaller and the layout of the tables isn't as nice. If the publisher would revamp the typeface, layout, and aesthetics a bit it could definitely give the other two books a run for their money.<br />Any of these three Spanish verb books is excellent, however, and will help you bootstrap your Spanish speaking and reading knowledge and facility to the next level. They're also all the same price, so again, there's no reason to prefer one over the other there.ely give the other two books a run for their money.<br />Any of these three Spanish verb books is excellent, however, and will help you bootstrap your Spanish speaking and reading knowledge and facility to the next level. They're also all the same price, so again, there's no reason to prefer one over the other there.	2003-11-24
890185:US	45193257	RE1AVLK492BY0	0844271403	266832993	Side By Side: Spanish and English Grammar	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Extremely useful	I have about a dozen Spanish books including courses and grammars at various levels, and several audio type courses, and this is probably the most useful learning tool/book I have. The book's method of putting the English and Spanish side by side is very helpful, but the best thing is the explanation of all the tenses, which I don't always keep in my head. For example, many people aren't going to remember what the pluperfect past progressive tense is, or the imperfect subjunctive, and so on, and this book was great to remind me about those and what the corresponding Spanish forms are.<br /><br />The book does this for all the different basic parts of speech: verbs, nouns, pronouns, prepositions, interjections, conjunctions, and so on. The tables and sections don't always align exactly on the facing pages, since there aren't always exact correspondences between the two languages, but I didn't mind that too much. For example, although technically English has the subjunctive tense, it's really almost a vestigial construction, but in Spanish there is a complete system of marking the subjunctive which is still very active, and the rules, although fairly consistent, can get pretty detailed. Spanish also has a second preterite tense that English doesn't have, the co-preterite or preterite anterior, as it's called in Spanish, and the two aren't interchangeable, so you need to know how they work and what the differences are.<br /><br />So overall, an excellent book and probably the most helpful Spanish book I have, although it's not intended to be an exhaustive grammar. Some people might find the explanations a little technical, and I note one or two people here commented on that, but again, I didn't mind that too much. This book is a great value considering it really doesn't cost that much.<br /><br />I only have one other book that is similar to this one, which is Spanish Verb Tenses, by Dorothy Devney Richmond. It is only on the verbal system and has less technical descriptions of the verbs than this book, which might be better for some people. The book also has a workbook section with exercises which some people might find helpful. It also includes  appendices of verb tables of regular and irregular verbs; the preterite, future, and conditional conjugations; tables for the present and imperfect subjunctive moods; and a separate table for the modal auxiliary haber.<br /><br />Finally, there is a Spanish to English and English to Spanish glossary with definitions of several hundred verbs, and a long list of verbs that take a preposition. This book is also very reasonably priced and I can recommend it too.ptions of the verbs than this book, which might be better for some people. The book also has a workbook section with exercises which some people might find helpful. It also includes  appendices of verb tables of regular and irregular verbs; the preterite, future, and conditional conjugations; tables for the present and imperfect subjunctive moods; and a separate table for the modal auxiliary haber.<br /><br />Finally, there is a Spanish to English and English to Spanish glossary with definitions of several hundred verbs, and a long list of verbs that take a preposition. This book is also very reasonably priced and I can recommend it too.	2003-11-24
891039:US	45193257	R20Q4CZ2ZZHF4X	1400020549	963210621	2000+ Essential Spanish Verbs: Learn the Forms, Master the Tenses, and Speak Fluently! (Essential Vocabulary)	Books	5	106	107	N	N	The best of the three I've seen	This book, The Big Red Book of Spanish Verbs, and 501 Spanish Verbs are the three \\"big guns\\" out there on Spanish verb conjugations, and I think it's actually the best of the three, although I don't like the page layout as much.<br />All three of these books have their pros and cons, but this book has one major advantage over the other two--it not only has the verb tables--but in addition there is a detailed, 100-page grammar and usage section in the second part of the book where 75 important verbs are explained and used in more detail. Each of the 75 verbs gets an extra page or two, which makes it much more thorough than either The Big Red book or 501 Spanish Verbs in this regard.<br />This section includes separate discussions on all the tenses, such as the present, future, conditional, and subjunctive. In addition, there are several more useful features the other two books don't have, such as a discussion on the sequence of tenses, a summary of the subjunctive, uses of Ser and Estar, verbs that change meaning in the reflexive form, idiomatic expressions with some common verbs (which the 501 book does have), the \\"personal a,\\" definitions of common grammatical terms, and regional differences in the use of verbs.<br />For example, there is the infamous verb coger, which means to take or to catch in most countries, but which in Mexico, Venezuela, Argentina, and Uruguay, means to have carnal knowledge of equivalent to a certain four-letter word. In those countries, the verbs agarrar or tomar are used instead. So in other words, you wouldn't want to get confused in those countries and use the verb coger in regard to someone's sister. :-)<br />Another nice featurethe author includes practice sentences in which you change the subject or one of the other words so you have to conjugate the verb differently and then reply. I've found that this is more useful than just looking at the verb conjugation tables and trying to memorize them. For some reason, placing them in the context of a real sentence reinforces them even more. Learning a foreign language is a process of many little steps, and often it's two steps forward and one step back, and every little bit helps.<br />The Big Red and 501 Verbs books only have a few examples of how the verbs are used in sentences at the bottom of each page. The Big Red book has more of these than the 501 book, but it's still not nearly as extensive as the present one's.<br />One feature the 501 Verbs book has is a good section on the idiomatic usages of verbs. Another nice feature is it includes dozens of sample conversations at the back of the book on various topics, using the well-known Berlitz method (invented in the late 19th century by Maximilian Berlitz as an improvement on the classical rote memorization method of teaching languages) of simulated conversations in various practical situations, which the The Big Red and this one don't have.<br />One final minor feature, but one I still liked, was that each verb page in the 501 book has the progressive tenses using the verb estar at the bottom of the verb tables, which the other two don't have. This never changes once you understand the pattern, but it's still nice to have it laid out.<br />So all three books have their pros and cons, but if I had to have one verb book, it would have to be this one because of the much more extensive treatment of the 65 important verbs.context of a real sentence reinforces them even more. Learning a foreign language is a process of many little steps, and often it's two steps forward and one step back, and every little bit helps.<br />The Big Red and 501 Verbs books only have a few examples of how the verbs are used in sentences at the bottom of each page. The Big Red book has more of these than the 501 book, but it's still not nearly as extensive as the present one's. <br />One feature the 501 Verbs book has is a good section on the idiomatic usages of verbs. Another nice feature is it includes dozens of sample conversations at the back of the book on various topics, using the well-known Berlitz method (invented in the late 19th century by Maximilian Berlitz as an improvement on the classical rote memorization method of teaching languages) of simulated conversations in various practical situations, which the The Big Red and this one don't have. <br />One final minor feature, but one I still liked, was that each verb page in the 501 book has the progressive tenses using the verb estar at the bottom of the verb tables, which the other two don't have. This never changes once you understand the pattern, but it's still nice to have it laid out. <br />So all three books have their pros and cons, but if I had to have one verb book, it would have to be this one because of the much more extensive treatment of the 65 important verbs.	2003-11-23
891553:US	45193257	R2OLASJXK05NFI	0812020340	485873382	201 Turkish Verbs: Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses (201 Verbs Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Useful book	Turkish has the wonderful distinction of being one of the few languages I've seen with completely regular verbs, unlike Latin, Greek, Sanskrit, Russian, Spanish, French, German, Arabic, and most of the world's other major languages that I've seen books on. Japanese and Chinese are the only other ones I know that come close, as the number of irregular verbs can be counted on the fingers of one hand.<br />It would be interesting to know how many are like this, and perhaps some of the other Uralic languages like Turkish are too. As I said, Japanese is the only other one I know like this, and in fact there are only two irregular verbs in Japanese. Chinese, if I remember right, is also very regular since it doesn't even inflect for person or number, and I suspect the other Han Chinese family languages are similarly regular because of this, but I can't speak for the other tonal languages such as Thai and Vietnamese, but I assume Cantonese and Hakka are very regular too like Mandarin.<br />I also don't know how the other southeast Asian family languages compare, such as Mon, Khmer (Cambodian), Burmese, or the many other language groups and dialects in southeast Asia such as Hmong in the Mon-Khmer group. The other groups are the Bahnaric group, which includes languages like Sedang and Halang; the Senoic group, which includes Semai and Temiar; Nicorbarese, which includes Trinkat and Bompaka, Munda, which includes Juray and Remo, and the north Munda group, which includes Kork and Sora.<br />Actually, come to think of it, Arabic is pretty good. It has ten different verb conjugation categories, and once you know those, you're all right. In fact, they're so regular the dictionaries actually refer to them by numbers I-X.<br />But getting back to this book, as someone noted previously, because the verbs are completely regular, this book could probably have been about 15 pages long. The only other thing to learn is vowel harmony in Turkish, which isn't that difficult and fans of linguistics will recognize this concept from other languages where it occurs, such as in Hungarian, where it's very important. In phonetics, vowel harmony is a type of assimilation which occurs when vowels take on features of contrastive vowels elsewhere in a word or phrase. Once you know how this works, it's very difficult to misspell a word in Turkish, so even that's not really a problem. So overall, a fine book on Turkish verbs despite all the wasted wood pulp. :-)linguistics will recognize this concept from other languages where it occurs, such as in Hungarian, where it's very important. In phonetics, vowel harmony is a type of assimilation which occurs when vowels take on features of contrastive vowels elsewhere in a word or phrase. Once you know how this works, it's very difficult to misspell a word in Turkish, so even that's not really a problem. So overall, a fine book on Turkish verbs despite all the wasted wood pulp. :-)	2003-11-22
892569:US	45193257	R1YWKK0SQ53FWU	0764113496	70154353	501 Russian Verbs Barron's (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Excellent reference for Russian verb	Unlike Turkish or Japanese (in which the irregular verbs can be counted on the fingers of one hand, at least in the case of Japanese), Russian, like Latin, Spanish, German, and many other languages, has lots of both regular and irregular verbs. Spanish, which I know better than Russian, has 22 commonly used verbs that are irregular in the present indicative tense, and the same 18 are also irregular in the present subjunctive. But 12 of those have the same pattern in the present indicative, so once you get this idea, the situation is not as bad as it at first seems. There are similar patterns in Russian, and it helps to have them laid out for you and explained, which this book does. As someone pointed out, the hundreds of pages of regularly conjugated verbs really aren't needed once you get the pattern for the regular ones, and this book could have been reduced to a few pages that way, but for beginners it's still useful to have that.<br />Considering that language learners now have the choice of getting handheld language translation computers like the well-known models from Franklin, which aren't that much more than this book, and which will give you the definitions of 60,000 words, along with other notes on the grammar, games, word completion, and other features, it's interesting to see that these books are still surviving so well.<br />One useful feature is the section where the colloquial uses of various verbs are explained, which is useful too, and the Spanish version of this book has the same feature. This section focuses on commonly used verbal phrases that are not unlike the ones in use in English that cause so many problems for foreign speakers. These are phrases like &quot;run away from, or come up on,&quot; in English. But since English has done away with case markers and now mostly relies on word order, there are many more thousands of them in English than in Russian or Spanish. NTC's recent dictionary of English verbal phrases and phrasal verbs listed 12,000.<br />But getting back to this book, this is still an excellent reference for the beginner to intermediate speaker and I can recommend it for that.2,000. <br />But getting back to this book, this is still an excellent reference for the beginner to intermediate speaker and I can recommend it for that.	2003-11-21
898610:US	45193257	RWCJFV61ZGAZ	0764552597	970363519	Ferrets For Dummies	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Excellent book for the current or potential owner	I've never owned a ferret, and I might get one myself, except that unfortunately they're illegal where I live. But they're very interesting, fun-loving, and fun critters, so I settled for reading this book, which does an entertaining job of telling what its like to have and live with one (or several). The author has 10 years of experience owning and working with ferrets, and she brings her enthsiasm about them to this book.<br />First of all, a brief comment on the nasty review from a reviewer who didn't leave their name, which the author also responded to. I saw little basis for their criticisms and complaints about the book. For example, the reviewer says that this isn't the best book on ferrets out there, but then doesn't say which one is. The reviewer also says the author's style is juvenile at times, but the author's style is no different from the now hundreds of other books in the Dummies series which are notable for their easy and approachable style while nevertheless managing to impart a great deal of useful information, which is why the series has been so successful. Since the reviewer doesn't back up any of their opinions and criticisms with any evidence or examples, I think you can safely disregard this person's comments.<br />But getting back to the book itself, the author covers many aspects of owning a ferret, discussing both the good and the bad, which should be useful to anyone who presently has or is considering getting one of these animals. For me the most interesting sections were the ones covering various aspects of ferret psychology, behavior, and physiology, especially the many potential medical issues.<br />For example, ferrets are prone to lymphosarcoma, mast cell tumors of the skin, sebaceous skin tumors, enlarged spleens, and numerous other maladies. Also, females continue manufacturing estrogen until they're mated, eventually producing such a high serum level of estrogen that it can cause aplastic anemia unless they're bred or neutered. Ferrets also require somewhat higher quality food than your typical dog, and you need to make sure you keep such things as their yearly distemper and rabies shots up, and also keep them regularly wormed to prevent heartworm.<br />Ferret romance also has decidedly not been influenced very much by feminist ideas. The author says that (I'm quoting from memory here, so cut me a little slack), \\"...the male practically tackles the female and bites her on the neck. He mops his whole condo with her, even with her screaming and attempting to bite back.\\"<br />My only quip about the book, which is very minor, is the author gets a little too cute with all the ferret nicknames at times, such as furball, fuzzball, carpet shark, and so on. But as I said, it's a minor complaint. Overall this is a very detailed, informative, well-written, and entertaining book on ferrets that should be useful to anyone who has a ferret or is considering getting one.rrets also require somewhat higher quality food than your typical dog, and you need to make sure you keep such things as their yearly distemper and rabies shots up, and also keep them regularly wormed to prevent heartworm.<br />Ferret romance also has decidedly not been influenced very much by feminist ideas. The author says that (I'm quoting from memory here, so cut me a little slack), \\"...the male practically tackles the female and bites her on the neck. He mops his whole condo with her, even with her screaming and attempting to bite back.\\" <br />My only quip about the book, which is very minor, is the author gets a little too cute with all the ferret nicknames at times, such as furball, fuzzball, carpet shark, and so on. But as I said, it's a minor complaint. Overall this is a very detailed, informative, well-written, and entertaining book on ferrets that should be useful to anyone who has a ferret or is considering getting one.	2003-11-16
898806:US	45193257	R3HEVDUYIIYM7X	1853910058	768635925	Korean in Plain English	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good little phrase book	This is a nice little phrase book and basic vocabulary book on Korean, although I was looking for something with a better description of the grammar. The author provides a list of 1200 words along with 1200 of the most common phrases in which they're used, and for someone wanting a Berlitz-type travel guide and phrase book this would be fine. The author provides a brief history of the Korean alphabet, which is phonetic, like most Indo-European languages. He also discusses briefly pronunciation and how it differs from English--such as the lack of syllable stress and the consonants being similar to English but for the vowels being more like Spanish or a typical romance language--rather than English. Finally the author discusses the phonetics he uses, which is different from the typical conventions on this, but justifies it by saying it reflects more accurately how Korean actually sounds. I didn't mind it too much but would have preferred the more traditional system. But it was okay. Overall, a good little phrase book if that's all you need, but I would have liked at least a few pages devoted to the basics of the grammar, and I don't see why that couldn't have been done.	2003-11-16
899103:US	45193257	RJGMKVJJMPMPG	065800090X	336352747	NTC's Dictionary of Phrasal Verbs and Other Idiomatic Verbal Phrases w/CD-ROM	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good dictionary on these constructions	I'm not sure this is the exact same edition of this book, as the one I was looking at doesn't have the CD, and it includes 12,000 different English verbal phrases. But I couldn't find any other edition on Amazon, so I assume this is it, but I mention that just in case.<br />English has so many of these because of the decline of prefixes, which started somewhere between Old and Middle English, as Risto Hiltunen documented in his book, &quot;The Decline of the Prefixes and the Beginnings of the English Phrasal Verb,&quot; which resulted in the development of separate pronouns and eventually verbal phrases. These are phrases such as &quot;Come up on, run away from, brush up on, run out of,&quot; etc. This book documents and defines, as I said, 12,000, and is a very thick book as a result. I don't know how many of these there actually are in English, but 12,000 seems like a lot, so if you need a resource like this, I suspect it will probably have what you want.	2003-11-16
900573:US	45193257	R16W7V0QYB50Z7	0716601044	880007821	The World Book Encyclopedia	Books	5	30	34	N	N	A comparison review	Please note that this is for the CD version of the encyclopedia. I couldn't find an Amazon listing for the multimedia version, so I thought I would make my comments here for the print set. The World Book is one of the four or five great 'pedias out there, and I have been very pleased with mine, so I thought I'd make a few comments and compare it with the other major sets since I have all of them and you might find my comments useful in picking out the best one for you.<br /><br />First, the Britannica set is no doubt the most scholarly and technical of these, and many of the articles in technical subjects, such as modern epistemology and phenomenology, classical western and eastern philosophy, comparative linguistics and philology, mineralogy, petrology, and geomorphology, in which I've read a fair amount, are pitched at the advanced college level. In fact, 40% of the Britannica is devoted to science and it is definitely the strongest there. But the history articles are also very solid, along with the other areas of the humanties. The CD version contains 10,000 more articles than the print version, and there are 24,000 major articles in that, and 65,000 if you include the Britannica's shorter Ready Reference ones. However, no matter what Britannica says, this set is not appropriate to anyone under at least basic college level, and most of the articles read as if they were written to provide technical overviews for professionals who are working in the field, rather than for the average college student.<br /><br />The World Book is consistently rated the best in terms of ease of use by professional librarians, and they prefer it to the Britannica. This is because the articles are written for the expected level of the reader, rather than like the Britannica's, which are all at the under or upper undergrad college level or higher. For example, the article on CATS will be easier than the one on PHYSICS. The World Book is very strong on history and biography and I would say that is its main strength. It has 17,000 articles, plus an extra 1800 in the CD version.<br /><br />Grolier's puts out the Encyclopedia Americana as well as the New Book of Knowledge and the Grolier's Academic Encyclopedia. The New Book of Knowledge is also very good and Grolier's gives you that free as a bonus along with the Encyclopedia Americana (the online versions, that is) when you buy the Grolier's Encyclopedia. I like having all three so this is a very good deal for the price of one. Grolier's is a good, all-around reference tool and I like it as well. It is pitched at about the same level as the World Book, so it isn't quite as technical as the Britannica and would be useful as a family reference set in much the same way as the World Book.<br /><br />Encarta has the most multimedia bells and whistles, and the best integrated atlas of the world, which is a truly wonderful atlas, much better than the ones included with the other encyclopedias here. It has the best interface and navigation and over 10 levels of magnification and detail for the maps. The others atlases aren't nearly as detailed or flexible. Encarta has been enhanced by Microsoft's acquisition of Collier's Encyclopedia, which contributed an extra 3000 articles to the current version, boosting the scholarly level quite a bit.<br /><br />Encarta is good for both science and history, and the history articles for major countries such as China, Japan, Russia, England, and so on, range from 80 to 120 pages long, which is pretty impressive. The biographical articles on founding fathers such as Washington, Jefferson, Adams, and so on, range from 20 to over 30 pages, which is also pretty impressive.<br /><br />The Oxford Encyclopedia is shorter that the above ones but has very concise and to the point articles on history topics that are excellent. A surprising find was the Simon and Schuster encyclopedia, which I was impressed with, and I would say is comparable to the Grolier's or World Book in levelof difficulty and coverage.<br /><br />Hope my little comparison guide helps. Happy encyclopedia buying and reading!omparison guide helps. Happy encyclopedia buying and reading!	2003-11-15
901108:US	45193257	R2B8GNRN8RISC9	0226317722	437152152	Structural Linguistics (Midway Reprint Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Classic treatment	Harris was Chomsky's mentor and in many ways this book is the final great summation of structural linguistics before Chomsky's landmark Syntactic Structures appeared a few years later, after which the field of linguistics was never the same. This book is still worth reading for those engaged in comparative and structural linguistics studies of extant or vanishing languages, providing a thorough grounding in methods of structural analysis and description that are still valid in terms of the treatment of the surface structure of a language's grammar.<br />One only needs to read these pages and then a modern study in analytical and computational grammar, however, to see how far things have come even since Chomsky's book. Now linguists talk about harmonic context-free grammars, generalized and head-driven phrase-structure-grammars, formal recursive parsing algorithms, and other concepts that sound like they're from the field of computer science or engineering rather than linguistics--and in fact, these ideas are often used to analyze computer languages as well. Hence, you'll see articles in the literature with titles like, \\"Posterior Decoding for Generative Constituent-Context Grammar, or \\"Multi-Modal Combinatory Categorial Grammar,\\" and \\"A Parser for Harmonic Context-Free Grammars.\\"<br />But getting back to Harris's book, this is still an excellent presentation of the subject at a time just prior to Chomsky's revolution, and remains one of the best books on the subject ever written.	2003-11-14
901346:US	45193257	R32DP9PXQDCNOP	1556195044	902849328	Comparative Indo-European Linguistics: An introduction	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Detailed treatment of important family	Well written and detailed treatment of Indo-European comparative linguistics, discussing the many grammatical features and lexical similarities that tie this important group of languages together. The Indo-European languages are notable for the complex verb tense system which allows many fine distinctions in discussing time, as opposed to aspect and mood, which other language families excel at. For example, Japanese in the Ural-Altaic group lacks a true future tense, but is much more complex than most Indo-European languages in terms of modal verb constructions (the subjunctive mood is an example of that, for those whose formal grammar is a bit rusty), which express such concepts as probability, conditionality, potential, the attitude of the speaker towards the subject, and so on.<br />I note the comment one reviewer made here about some typos, but overall, this is an excellent treatment of the subject. It's not exactly a beginner's book, requiring a good foundation in comparative and structural linguistics to read it. If you need to bone up on that before reading this, I would recommend Zellig Harris's classic book, Structural Linguistics, or the chapters on comparative and structural linguistics and grammar in John Lyon's great book, Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics. I can also recommend  the amazingly well done articles on comparative linguistics and on the Indo-European family in the Encyclopedia Britannica if you can't get ahold of those, since the Lyons book and possibly Harris's book are out of print.	2003-11-14
901716:US	45193257	RYH13PKO8YIHF	0852297874	457560923	Encyclopaedia Britannica 2002 Complete 32 Volume Print Set (Encyclopaedia Britannica 2002)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A few comments after two months of intensive use	Please note that this review is for the CD version of the encyclopedia. I couldn't locate the multimedia version on Amazon, which I had written a review on a couple of months ago for some reason, so I thought I'd post the review here. That was a long review that compared the Britannica with the other major offerings with respect to features, such as the World Book, Encarta, and Grolier's, so if you're interested recommend you try to look it up as I go into much more detail on the different sets so you can make the right choice for you.<br />That was a couple of months agg, and now that I've worked with the Britannica extensively, I wanted to make a few more brief comments. And by intensively I mean that each week I've spent several hours reading the various articles.<br />First, a minor complaint. The CD version of the program is very slow running and very piggish when it comes to memory. According to my memory monitoring utility, my RAM utilitization goes from 65% availablility to 38% after loading the Britannica, and that's with 512 megs of RAM. It's the only program I run that impacts memory like that. I recently bought a new system with more RAM and now it runs much better. My old system was a nearly 4 year old Pentium III 650 MHz machine with only 128 megs of RAM (which is fine for Windows 98), but not for running XP, which I had upgraded to, especially if you want to run the Britannica program. My new system is a 2.6 GHz Celeron with four times as much memory, and the Britannica, while not blazingly fast, at least isn't dog slow anymore. I'm surprised they didn't do a better job with the speed. Most people will find this program runs somewhat slow on their systems if they're several years old unless they have a lot of RAM.<br />That having been said, I'm delighted to have this great resource on my system. My interests are mainly in science and history, and 40% of the Britannica is devoted to science. The articles on physics and astronomy and medical and physiological topics are not as technical as I would like, but the other two areas I'm interested in, geology, and linguistics, have articles that are, to use an over-used word phrase, simply awesome. The articles on mineralogy, and on igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary petrology, and geomorphology, are amazingly technical, and are at least at the upper division undergrad level and could even be master's level in terms of diffulty.<br />The articles on comparative and structural linguistics are similarly good, especially the ones on the different language families, such as the Romance, Germanic, and so on, as well as on the super-family articles such as Ural-Altaic and Indo-European. These and the geology articles read more like they were written as technical reviews for professionals already working in the field, rather than for your average college student. Lastly, the articles on western and eastern philosophy, especially the classical periods, are very good too.<br />Also, many of the history and biography articles are quite good, and I've read all the ones on the founding fathers, George Washington, Jefferson, John Adams, Hamilton, Franklin, and so on, and they were excellent as well. As I said, I like to read up and research a number of different subjects, and I read at a fairly high technical level in most of them, and the Britannica has enabled me to increase my knowledge of them substantially and to refresh my memory on many technical details I had forgotten from my advanced classes. So far I've read several dozen articles on various topics and am very pleased.<br />Well, I've written more than I intended to so I'll sign off here. But I wanted to post a few more comments from a very happy customer.logical topics are not as technical as I would like, but the other two areas I'm interested in, geology, and linguistics, have articles that are, to use an over-used word phrase, simply awesome. The articles on mineralogy, and on igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary petrology, and geomorphology, are amazingly technical, and are at least at the upper division undergrad level and could even be master's level in terms of diffulty.<br />The articles on comparative and structural linguistics are similarly good, especially the ones on the different language families, such as the Romance, Germanic, and so on, as well as on the super-family articles such as Ural-Altaic and Indo-European. These and the geology articles read more like they were written as technical reviews for professionals already working in the field, rather than for your average college student. Lastly, the articles on western and eastern philosophy, especially the classical periods, are very good too.<br />Also, many of the history and biography articles are quite good, and I've read all the ones on the founding fathers, George Washington, Jefferson, John Adams, Hamilton, Franklin, and so on, and they were excellent as well. As I said, I like to read up and research a number of different subjects, and I read at a fairly high technical level in most of them, and the Britannica has enabled me to increase my knowledge of them substantially and to refresh my memory on many technical details I had forgotten from my advanced classes. So far I've read several dozen articles on various topics and am very pleased.<br />Well, I've written more than I intended to so I'll sign off here. But I wanted to post a few more comments from a very happy customer.	2003-11-14
902881:US	45193257	R23PKGN66ZJ0X1	0064632873	550815577	Russian for Beginners	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Great first Russian book	This was my first book on Russian almost 20 years ago and I was quite fond of it. Despite being over 40 years old, having been first published in 1962, this book by Duff and Makarov is still one of the best beginner's courses in Russian out there, and I was pleased to see it had been brought out in a new edition by Harper Resource.<br />Although it purports to be a simple course, there is a lot of meat here, and each page is packed with information. There are numerous exercies, grammar drills, and detailed explanations of the grammar and syntax in each chapter. There are lots of vocabulary lists, and over 40 lessons. The author includes entertaining passages from Russian folk tales for reading and translation, such as \\"The Fox and the Scorpion,\\" and also passages from famous Russian authors where the level of difficulty isn't too great. The book imparts a vocabulary of 4000 words and there is a dictionary in the back with all the words in case you need to look them up.<br />The author has very clear discussions of the complex Russian case and verb system, especially things like the Russian verb of motion, which is different from English and most Indo-European languages, along with many other aspects of the grammar. Russian has at four different conjugations patterns for verbs, which are inflected for person, number, and gender, as well as six grammatical cases, similar to Latin, but Duff and Makarov have very clear and concise explanations of everything which are a joy to read.<br />I spent a summer working through this book and then took a college-level Russian class the following fall semester, and I was way ahead of the rest of the class as a result. I'd learned the Cyrillic alphabet and could read and understand basic Russian sentences and paragraphs and much of the grammar. In fact, I'd gone most of the way through the first semester of Russian by just getting about 2/3 of the way through this book on my own. All in all, this is still a great book and now stands as a classic in its field which has rarely been surpassed.nds as a classic in its field which has rarely been surpassed.	2003-11-13
903859:US	45193257	R1XV6ZC20XVRR4	0070382387	613445883	Schaum's Outline of Russian Grammar	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Excellent just like the math outlines	I'd used quite a few of Schaum's other Outline series titles in various math courses, ranging from statistics to calculus and differential equations, but this is the first one I've tried in a non-quanititative area, and I was pleased to see the quality shines through here also.<br />This is a great outline and review of Russian grammar. Russian has some major pitfalls for the English language speaker, such as the complex case system, which has six cases just like Latin; three genders, male, female, and neuter; and a verb classification system that is foreign to us. This is the concept of directed vs. non-directed motion.<br />For example, in Russian there are two words for walking. If you were just strolling aimlessly around, such as walking in a park, you would use one verb. But if you were walking with a specific goal in mind, such as you were heading somewhere and had a specific destination in mind, you'd use the other verb. Many Russian verbs have this dual feature, which means you have to learn two verbs to do what in English you'd do with one verb and an adverb.<br />The other major way the Russian verbal system differs from English and many other Indo-European languages is that it is built primarily on the concept of aspect rather than tense. This means Russian verbs are more concerned with whether the action was complete or is incomplete, rather than whether the action took place at a certain point in time, as in the familar past, present, and future tenses. In grammar this is known as the perfective-imperfective dimension, \\"perfective\\" referring to completed action, and \\"imperfective\\" referring to an action that is still going on or hasn't been completed yet. An example in English of the perfect indicative is \\"I spoke.\\" An example of the imperfect indicative is \\"I was speaking.\\"<br />In this context I'm reminded of the example of Japanese, which doesn't have a very detailed tense system either, and in fact lacks the future tense, and has to use the progressive present to express that, if I remember correctly. However, it has instead a complex system of moods or modal verbs, which express such notions as the probability of an action, doubt, the attitude of the speaker toward the subject or person, and so on. This book discusses these complex features of Russian grammar along with many others, and has some of the clearest explanations on these topics that I've seen.<br />I thought I'd mention one more aspect of Russian grammar, actually phonetics, that I didn't see in the book, since it's very interesting too. This is the phenomenon in Russian of a consonant tending to assimilate the sounds that come before it, as in the sentence, \\"Ya yedu va gorody,\\" where the \\"g\\" sound affects the prononciation of \\"va\\" word in front of it. English has just the opposite tendency, as in word, \\"dogs,\\" where the \\"s\\" sounds like a \\"z\\" instead of the normal \\"s\\" sound because of the affect of the voiced g. Hence, English has forward or anterograde assimilation of consonants, and Russian has the opposite, or regressive assimilation of consonants.<br />Overall this is another outstanding study outline from Schaum that I can recommend especially to first year Russian students, or anyone needing a quick review of this subject.ive present to express that, if I remember correctly. However, it has instead a complex system of moods or modal verbs, which express such notions as the probability of an action, doubt, the attitude of the speaker toward the subject or person, and so on. This book discusses these complex features of Russian grammar along with many others, and has some of the clearest explanations on these topics that I've seen. <br />I thought I'd mention one more aspect of Russian grammar, actually phonetics, that I didn't see in the book, since it's very interesting too. This is the phenomenon in Russian of a consonant tending to assimilate the sounds that come before it, as in the sentence, \\"Ya yedu va gorody,\\" where the \\"g\\" sound affects the prononciation of \\"va\\" word in front of it. English has just the opposite tendency, as in word, \\"dogs,\\" where the \\"s\\" sounds like a \\"z\\" instead of the normal \\"s\\" sound because of the affect of the voiced g. Hence, English has forward or anterograde assimilation of consonants, and Russian has the opposite, or regressive assimilation of consonants.<br />Overall this is another outstanding study outline from Schaum that I can recommend especially to first year Russian students, or anyone needing a quick review of this subject.	2003-11-12
904084:US	45193257	R2MRUKCBDOOLUH	0824820886	708884256	Ilocano Dictionary and Grammar: Ilocano-English, English-Ilocano (PALI Language Texts)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Best book on this language	Seeing as this is only one of two grammars of Ilocano I've ever seen--the other one being in a university library 20 years ago that was somebody's doctoral dissertation printed on poor quality, smudgy paper--I was prepared to read it no matter how bad it was. The surprise was that this is a very well done grammar of Ilocano, along with  separate phrase and word dictionaries that are quite extensive. The author has a Ph.D. in languages and linguistics himself from the University of California at Santa Barbara, and his interest and enthusiasm in the language comes through in this very well done book.<br />Ilocano belongs to the northern Marianas subfamily of the western Austronesian language group, and is spoken by about 10 million people, mostly on the northern Philippine island of Luzon. It has many interesting grammatical features, such as having an ergative-absolutive based case system, an extensive system of prefixes, infixes, and postfixes, as well as enclitic particles (i.e., word morphemes that can be attached to more than one category of words), and a three-way spatial system of demonstrative pronouns consisting of the proximal, distal, and medial, similar to Kapampangan, another language from Luzon. Like other Philippine languages, it is a predicate-initial language, meaning that verbs and adjectives usually occupy the initial position in a sentence. It makes extensive use of sound symbolism, having many onomatopoetic root words. In that sense it sounds similar to Swahili, which has something known as \\"onomatopoetic ideophones\\"--words which attempt to capture in sound the idea of the object, such as in the word, \\"trinka-trinka,\\" (or tractor). I'm not sure if the two features in Ilocano and Swahili are really the same, but Swahili is the only other language I've read about that does something like this.<br />The first 101 pages of the book are devoted to the phonology, morphology, and syntax of Ilocano, with the remaining 165 pages being taken up by the phrase dictionary and the word dictionary. Throughout the grammar portion the author intersperses numerous vocabulary lists, so you can build your vocabulary as you go along. According to what I've read, this is the most extensive dictionary of Ilocano to date, and was compiled from a large number of sources. This is no doubt the best book on Ilocano out there, and one of the most scholarly as well as readable books and grammars on a more exotic language that I've ever seen (and I've seen a lot of them). :-)e dictionary and the word dictionary. Throughout the grammar portion the author intersperses numerous vocabulary lists, so you can build your vocabulary as you go along. According to what I've read, this is the most extensive dictionary of Ilocano to date, and was compiled from a large number of sources. This is no doubt the best book on Ilocano out there, and one of the most scholarly as well as readable books and grammars on a more exotic language that I've ever seen (and I've seen a lot of them). :-)	2003-11-12
904098:US	45193257	R39ZF9YI8H99H8	0781804469	590168821	Chechen-English/English-Chechen Dictionary & Phrasebook (Hippocrene Dictionary and Phrasebook)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Good little starter book	There are some academic and scholarly dictionaries and works on Chechen out there, but they are quite pricey compared to this book. For the money this is a fine little book, and will give you a start on the grammar and vocabulary of Chechen. As it is meant to be a dictionary and phrase book the treatment of the grammar is necessarily limited, but it was still informative and did provide some basic information on its structure that I didn't know before. The author also discusses a little of the history of the area, and the history buffs among you probably know that Joseph Stalin was Georgian--which didn't keep him from purging and deporting tens of thousands of Georgians to Siberia.<br />Chechen belongs to one of the four subfamilies of Caucasian languages, known as the Nakh subfamily, whose center of distribution is the Caucasus mountains of central and northern Georgia and the smaller countries just to the north such as Ingushetia and Chechnya, although the inhabitants of Alania speak a language belonging to the Indo-Iranian family. The Caucasian language group is unrelated to Russian and the other Indo-European languages to the north, the Ural-Altaic languages to the east, and the Semitic and Indo-Iranian languages to the south, forming its own unique family. Despite the diversity of the group, the 40 or so languages that belong to this interesting family show a number of common features, such as ejective consonants, an agglutinative word morphology, verb subject and object prefixes, postpositions, and an ergative-absolutive case system.<br />I had read previously that the Caucasian languages often had a very large number of cases--perhaps over 30, so I was surprised to find that Chechen only had eight. That makes it more complex than Russian or Latin, which have six cases, but the same as Greek, which has 8, and simpler than Ural-Altaic languages like Finnish or Estonian, which have 14 and 15, respectively. I had read previously that the Caucasian languages often had a very large number of cases--in some cases over 30, so I was surprised to find that Chechen only had eight. That makes it more complex than Russian or Latin, which have six cases, but the same as Greek, which has 8, and simpler than Ural-Altaic languages like Finnish or Estonian, which have 14 and 15, respectively. The eight cases are:<br />Nominative--subject of intransitive verb, direct object of transitive verb. Citation form, predicate nominal<br />Genitive--possession; adnominal<br />Dative--indirect object; object of postposition<br />Ergative--subject of transitive verb;<br />Allative--indirect object; other oblique objects<br />Instrumental--instrument, means, accompaniment<br />Lative--oblique objects<br />Comparison--standard of comparison<br />The Chechen verb, in contrast to most languages, has almost no inflection for person or number, although it has ablaut. \\"Ablaut\\" refers to a vowel change inside a word, as in English drive/drove/driven or sit/sat or find/found, which signify verb tense changes. If I remember correctly, changes like drive/drove, or swim/swam, are also known as the Aorist case, which in English, German, and other German languages is basically the past tense of a strong verb. Most verbs are regular, although there are a few irregular ones.<br />Another interesting aspect of Chechen verbs is what is known as the simulfactive and iterative aspect. A simulfactive ending on a verb denotes a one-time action, as opposed to an interative verb ending, which denotes multiple or repeated action. There are over 80 of these verbs, and there are hundreds more compound verbs which use one of these as an auxiliary to create more verbs.<br />As you can see, Chechen is a fascinating language, and one which is starting to become of interest to scholars. The author, Nicholas Awde, has done a service by putting together this nice little book. I knew Awde's name from a previous book I liked on teaching yourself Arabic, so I presume it's the same writer. If so, I give Awde credit for bringing out another fine book on a little-known member from this fascinating family of languages.ter. If so, I give Awde credit for bringing out another fine book on a little-known member from this fascinating family of languages.	2003-11-12
904102:US	45193257	R2FJG4B23MHQAW	0818404302	768119533	The Arabic Alphabet: How to Read & Write It	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Essential teaching aid	I knew Nicholas Awde's name from a previous book on teaching yourself Arabic, and his dictionary of the Chechen language, one of the Caucasian family languages of Georgia and southern Russia, both of which I liked also. I've looked at a couple of dozen Arabic books for the best introduction to the alphabet, and this was the best one, and I saw only one other book that was exclusively an introduction to the Arabic script.<br />In this book Awde has produced along with co-author Samano another excellent language book. Anyone intending to learn a new language like Arabic must first clear the hurdle of learning a new alphabet, and I think anyone using any of the recent books to teach themselves Arabic should probably get this book, too, as their discussions aren't nearly as clear or as detailed as what you'll find here.<br />I'd previously learned the Cyrillic alphabet to learn Russian, so I'm no stranger to foreign alphabets, but Arabic is even more difficult in that at least many of the letters in Russian are the same as in English, although some are different, and some are the same but have a different sound, which is confusing initially. For example, the Russian letter \\"P\\" is prounounced like \\"r,\\" the backwards letter \\"N\\" is actually an \\"i,\\" the \\"y\\" is  pronounced like \\"u,\\" and the backwards letter R is is prounounced like \\"ya\\"). But Arabic is completely different so there's' no resemblance, so you have to learn everything from scratch.<br />So far I've checked out at least a half dozen books on teaching yourself Arabic, trying to figure out which one I'll buy after reading this book, and although each one has an introductory chapter on the alphabet and script, this book goes into considerably more detail than they can in one chapter and discusses many more concepts and details. The book is almost 100 pages long, and this is much longer than what your typical Arabic language text has space for in the section on the alphabet or script.<br />For example, one of the main difficulties of Arabic is that the letters change their form depending on whether they're at the beginning, middle, or end of a word. The authors go over this in detail as well as other difficulties, such as the hamzah, or diacritical marks that can appear over various consonants. The hamzah has the most complicated rules of any aspect of the Arabic script, and most native Arabic speakers don't even know all of them because there are so many. In that sense it's like the English apostrophe, which can float around a sentence like the Hamzah, and which confuses both English language speakers as well as students of English.<br />In addition to the above, the authors discuss many more difficulties and concepts which will aid you in learning Arabic, whichever text you're working from. Overall, this is almost an essential supplement to any other Arabic book, especially for anyone trying to learn Arabic through self-study.main difficulties of Arabic is that the letters change their form depending on whether they're at the beginning, middle, or end of a word. The authors go over this in detail as well as other difficulties, such as the hamzah, or diacritical marks that can appear over various consonants. The hamzah has the most complicated rules of any aspect of the Arabic script, and most native Arabic speakers don't even know all of them because there are so many. In that sense it's like the English apostrophe, which can float around a sentence like the Hamzah, and which confuses both English language speakers as well as students of English.<br />In addition to the above, the authors discuss many more difficulties and concepts which will aid you in learning Arabic, whichever text you're working from. Overall, this is almost an essential supplement to any other Arabic book, especially for anyone trying to learn Arabic through self-study.	2003-11-12
904510:US	45193257	RJH4AL5LZRJXL	0521095107	266571877	Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great classic	I've read lots of both applied and theoretical linguistics books and this one is by far the best intro to the theoretical areas. I haven't read any high-level intro books on theory recently, so I can't state categorically that this is the best that's ever been written, but when I was studying the field a number of years ago, this was the best book I'd ever seen.<br />Lyon's book is very well written and understandable despite the quite substantial level of technical discussion and scholarship. He takes the reader from the beginning concepts to a very impressive level of technical and theoretical knowledge, which will be adequate to begin reading the professional literature in just one book, an impressive feat just by itelf. After reading this book you will be in excellent shape to tackle more advanced topics and books, which is what I did after reading it. From here I went on to read Robert B. Lee's important early work in transformational grammar, \\"The Grammar of English Nominalizations,\\" as well as others.<br />Lyons covers all the major areas, from phonetics to structural linguistics and transformational grammar. Important classical concepts such as de Saussure's dichotomies of parole vs. langue, diachronic vs. synchronic, and syntagmatic vs. paradigmatic are treated in detail. Although I enjoyed these chapters and the chapters on phonetics and phonology, for me the real meat of the book were the chapters on structural linguistics, universal grammar, and generative and transformational grammar.<br />To give just one example of the many discussions I enjoyed in this book, there was the section in which Lyons discusses ergative languages, such as Eskimo, and the concepts of ergativity vs. transitivity. Linguists have established that many, perhaps most languages, have the transitive pattern. The many Indo-European languages, of which English is a member, have the familar nominative-accusative pattern--with rare exceptions--such as Basque--which is thought to be more related to Sanskrit or the original pre-Indo-European language than to its current neighbors in Europe. In fact, Basque is the only ergative language in Europe. It also lacks the passive voice, and the usual reflexive pronouns such as myself/himself/herself/ourselves/themselves.<br />But getting back to ergative languages in general, a number of languages are now known to have an ergative-absolutive declension pattern, which are of interest to linguists since they reverse the typical pattern found in most other languages. In ergative languages, the direct object of a transitive verb is declined the same way as the subject of an intransitive verb, with the subject noun usually being marked with an agentive suffix or prefix. Linguists have documented a number of languages that do this, including Eskimo, many Austronesian family and Pacific island languages such as Ilocano and Kapambangan, and the Caucasian languages of Georgia and southern Russia such as Chechen and Ingushta. Recent research has elaborated on this concept even further with the idea of \\"active\\" languages, which are languages where the subjects of both transitive and intransitive verbs which are considered agents semantically are marked the same grammatically, in contrast to non-agentive subjects and direct objects, which are marked differently.<br />Lyons also has an excellent chapter on probably the most difficult subject in the book, Chomsky's transformational grammar. But Lyons makes this topic approachable as well by placing it in the context of generative grammars as a whole and proceeding on from there to the specific features of Chomsky's proposal. These include the idea of a deep as opposed to a surface grammar which are mapped onto each other through the use of transformation rules, the idea that syntatic rules are prior to semantics in speaking language, as in his famous example, \\"Colorless green ideas sleep furiuosly,\\" and so on.<br />I could go on and on about all the great things I learned from this book, but I have to stop somewhere. Overall it's a superb introduction and although now a true classic (having been published in 1968), one which I've never seen surpassed. (If any of you linguistics fans out there know another, please email me, I'd be interested in reading it. You can get my email address by making me an Amazon \\"Friend\\" in your Amazon personal reviewer area).ed from this book, but I have to stop somewhere. Overall it's a superb introduction and although now a true classic (having been published in 1968), one which I've never seen surpassed. (If any of you linguistics fans out there know another, please email me, I'd be interested in reading it. You can get my email address by making me an Amazon \\"Friend\\" in your Amazon personal reviewer area).	2003-11-12
904712:US	45193257	R1VXHB1ZB7YW1K	0899863647	440395445	Compendium of Phonetics in Ancient and Archaic Chinese	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Still worthwhile despite shortcomings	Phonetics and especially the phonological evolution of a language is not my favorite aspect of linguistics. I find the subject of grammatical evolution and change much more interesting, since clearly definable and progressive patterns can be shown to exist there that have a much more logical basis. Nevertheless, this book is notable for the wealth of information it contains, although as the previous reviewer noted, it has its shortcomings since it contains mistakes and the overall systematic framework is prestructuralist. On a personal note, the book I used for my first Chinese class was written by a student of Karlgren's, who spoke highly of Karlgren as a scholar and linguist and of Karlgren's contagious enthusiasm for the Chinese language. That came across in the textbook and I enjoyed the class and the book more as a result.	2003-11-11
905088:US	45193257	R2Z4RMOH48ULCS	0449219631	247826792	Jaws	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A few miscellaneous comments	Since others have written very complete reviews, I just had a few miscellaneous observations.<br />I read this book before seeing the movie and found it very entertaining, although it's not my usual fare, since I don't read much horror fiction. Although Benchley exaggerates the risk to humans from great whites, which are technically man-biters and not man-eaters, this book has become synonmynous with a new genre of sea thrillers that hasn't been seen much since the swashbuckling movies of the 40's to the 60's, and which were very different movies.<br />Some of the plot elements are classic Hollywood horror devices, but Benchley recasts them in a new mold. For example, we know that the brainy shark biologist, played in the movie by Richard Dreyfuss, must die because he has sex with Roy Scheider's wife, who needed to be reassured about her desirability to Dreyfuss, who comes from the same New England upper-crust society she does, having married beneath her socially to Roy Scheider, the town's chief of police. So Dreyfuss comes to a bad end, getting eaten by the shark and then shot (although already dead) by Scheider. So he basically gets killed twice. The moral message here can't possibly be missed.<br />This is also an old convention of horror movies in Hollywood, such as the Scream series of teen slasher/horror movies, where the only people who get killed have had sex. No doubt Jonathan Edwards would approve. And no doubt great white sharks find human sex as repulsive as the old Puritans did, which no doubt accounts for many of the attacks. :-)<br />Overall, a suspenseful read and much better than I was expecting.	2003-11-11
905342:US	45193257	RBG08VDTZC8S8	0658015877	666220591	Teach Yourself Arabic Complete Course	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Excellent beginner's book	I've looked at about a dozen beginning Arabic books so far, and this is one of the best I've seen for the complete novice. The introductory Arabic book by Youssif Haddad and Jack Ingle has a much more detailed treatment of the grammar and structure of the language, but you need more familiarity with written Arabic to benefit from it. I enjoy learning the formal grammar more than most people so although I think Ingle's book is a better book on the actual language, since I'm a rank beginner in Arabic I bought this one instead, and will supplement it with the Ingle book.<br />I also thought the Hippocrene book was good, and it would be my second choice for a [beginner.] About half-way through the book it started including many full paragraphs of material for translation. I have my doubts that the beginning reader would be that advanced by that time but I don't really know. I have the Hippocrene Spanish Grammar and it is the clearest, most concise, and overall best basic grammar I have, out of the four five that I own. One other main strength to this book is that it can accompany the tapes so you can get some idea of the spoken language too.<br />One thing I was pleased to see was that, although I had heard that Arabic was a difficult language, it is actually much simpler than Latin or Greek or even a contemporary Slavic language like Russian, as far as the grammar is concerned. It only has three cases, the nominative, accusative, and jussive, compared to Greek's eight, Latin and Russian's six (and the vocative case in Latin is hardly ever used), and German's four. The nouns are marked for the single, dual, and plural, which is different from English, which lost the dual inflection like many Indo-European languages many centuries ago. But the books make it clear that in modern spoken Arabic the three noun declensions are pretty much universally ignored, and you don't really learn them. The only time you need to know them is if you're reading classical literature or the Koran, or in academic discourse, where it might be used.<br />However, one difficult thing is that Arabic has many different ways of marking the plural, and here it resembles the complex rules in English for the use of the apostrophe, which causes almost as many problems for native speakers as for foreigners.<br />That having been said, verb conjugations in Arabic are not difficult and are quite regular, unlike Latin and many other languages. Here Arabic resembles Japanese, which also has a very regular verbal system, and you can count the number of irregular verbs in Japanese literally on the fingers of one hand, and also Chinese, which has no conjugation for gender, number, or anything else. In fact Arabic's is so regular that Arabic dictionaries can refer to the verbs by a number system (I-X).  So it appears that the main difficulty in Arabic is learning the alphabet, which is more complex than in English since the individual letters alter their form depending on whether they're at the beginning or end of a word, or in the middle. Another similarity between Arabic and Japanese, oddly enough, is that they both lack a true future tense.<br />Overall, a good first grammar on a language that may not be as difficult to learn as I was first thinking. However, I'm about to find out!Koran, or in academic discourse, where it might be used.<br />However, one difficult thing is that Arabic has many different ways of marking the plural, and here it resembles the complex rules in English for the use of the apostrophe, which causes almost as many problems for native speakers as for foreigners.<br />That having been said, verb conjugations in Arabic are not difficult and are quite regular, unlike Latin and many other languages. Here Arabic resembles Japanese, which also has a very regular verbal system, and you can count the number of irregular verbs in Japanese literally on the fingers of one hand, and also Chinese, which has no conjugation for gender, number, or anything else. In fact Arabic's is so regular that Arabic dictionaries can refer to the verbs by a number system (I-X).  So it appears that the main difficulty in Arabic is learning the alphabet, which is more complex than in English since the individual letters alter their form depending on whether they're at the beginning or end of a word, or in the middle. Another similarity between Arabic and Japanese, oddly enough, is that they both lack a true future tense.<br />Overall, a good first grammar on a language that may not be as difficult to learn as I was first thinking. However, I'm about to find out!	2003-11-11
905805:US	45193257	RA7GK4JYJXPKE	0893572675	691267023	A Short Grammar of Lithuanian	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Good introductory grammar of little-known language	This book is one of the few grammars of Lithuanian out there, and it helped me get a basic grasp of the nature and structure of the language. Lithuanian is an interesting language in that it resembles Sanskrit more than the other Indo-European languages in the rest of Europe. Hence, it is a highly inflected language that preserves many of the archaic features of classical Sanskrit, such as having seven noun cases, three numbers (single, dual, and plural), and six verb conjugations. Lithuanian has two sets of adverbs. The first set is used when the subjects of the main and subordinate clause refer to the same person; the second set is used when the subjects of the main and subordinate clauses are different. This is called a \\"switch-reference system.\\" *<br />Why Lithuanian is such a language isolate in Europe no-one really knows for sure, but it has been ascribed to the early settlement of the region by Indo-Aryan peoples from the east who brought an early form of Indo-European with them. There is a precedent to this in that it is thought that the inhabitants of present-day Latvia, which borders on Lithuania, are the only Caucasian people that have continuously inhabited their region of the Baltics for the last 3,000 years. Latvian is Lithuanian's closest relative. And there is archeological evidence that the Lithuanians are descended from the Baltic tribes that have inhabited the region since about the 11th millenium B.C.<br />Speaking of Latvian, I have to include a funny note here about it. I had a Latvian friend and roommate in college, and it is one of the funniest languages you will ever hear spoken. For example, you will hear Latvian speakers sometimes say something that clearly sounds in English like \\"Sh_t is f_cked.\\" I'm not kidding. The actual phrase in Latvian is more like \\"Sh_ttas ist f_ckts,\\" but at normal speed it sounds like what I said. The word for binoculars is \\"keekeezers.\\" A popular Latvian food is \\"peerugs,\\" which are like bite-size piroshkis, but which sounds like something you'd get for your dog. \\"Gullet\\" is another popular dish, and it looks like it came from someone's gullet too. It's a gelatin-like dish made from boiling down beef bones, and is eaten with some mustard. It sounds and looks sort of disgusting but it tastes good.<br />I have a funny story about Lithuanian, too. One of my father's friends grew up in Chicago, where there is a Lithuanian section. One time we were talking about languages, and he told me that the worst insult in the Lithuanian is, \\"Kaip dau sheek da shouda rukshtas pienna.\\" At least that's what it sounded like in English. This translates as, \\"How's your a_s for blowing buttermilk?\\"<br />Lithuanian has been called the most linguistically conservative language in Europe, and as I said, is considered something of a language isolate. However, it may not be as isolated as it at first appears, as the Gypsies speak a language known as Romansh, whose closest relative is thought to be Sanskrit, and Basque is the third language in modern Europe that appears to be closer to Sanskrit than to the other present-day European languages. Basque is a pretty strange language itself, being a so-called ergative language, unlike most Indo-European languages. In fact, Basque is the only ergative language in Europe. In ergative languages, the subject is marked with an agentive prefix or postfix, so that the direct object of a transitive verb has the same case as the subject of an intransitive verb. This is what is called the ergative case, and its case marker is different from the absolutive case for subjects of transitive verbs.<br />Basque also has other unique features among the Indo-European languages. It lacks the passive voice, and another oddity is that there are no reflexive pronouns such as myself/himself/herself/ourselves/themselves, although it has the standard set of pronouns. In an interesting article on Basque, Jon Patrick, a professor of psycholinguistics, points out, \\"Generally it canbe said that Euskara (or Basque) has a limited vocabulary but a comprehensive set of grammar rules that makes language generation a highly constructive/creative act, whereas English relies on an extensive vocabulary to provide a breadth of expression. To my mind this feature makes Euskara a more powerful language than English, for example, one word in Euskara can have up to 458,653 different forms just using up to 2 levels of recursion of the standard suffixes.\\"<br />But getting back to Lithuanian, today few people know that Lithuania had a thriving empire from the 9th to the 13th century that stretched from modern Lithuania to southern Russia. The present country is all that is left of this empire. For these reasons, Lithuanian as a language is more interesting than I had thought at first, so I ended up reading this grammar as result. Overall, this was a good introductory grammar, especially considering that there are only a few out there, although I would now like to find a comparative study that discusses and compares the language with Sanskrit, Romansch, and Basque and any of the other related languages that may exist.<br />I had one final comment. Despite English and Lithuanian being very distantly related, it is still possible to find words that are obviously similar. For example, \\"senele\\" and \\"senelis\\" are the words in Lithuanian for grandfather and grandmother, respectively, which are suspiciously similar to the words \\"senile\\" and \\"senescence\\" in English. And the word \\"sunus\\" in Lithuanian is the word for \\"son.\\" Considering that English and Lithuanian probably diverged 3,000-5,000 years ago or more, this is a pretty amazing resemblance.<br />*I'm indebted to the UCLA Language Materials Project webpage for this description.n be said that Euskara (or Basque) has a limited vocabulary but a comprehensive set of grammar rules that makes language generation a highly constructive/creative act, whereas English relies on an extensive vocabulary to provide a breadth of expression. To my mind this feature makes Euskara a more powerful language than English, for example, one word in Euskara can have up to 458,653 different forms just using up to 2 levels of recursion of the standard suffixes.\\"<br />But getting back to Lithuanian, today few people know that Lithuania had a thriving empire from the 9th to the 13th century that stretched from modern Lithuania to southern Russia. The present country is all that is left of this empire. For these reasons, Lithuanian as a language is more interesting than I had thought at first, so I ended up reading this grammar as result. Overall, this was a good introductory grammar, especially considering that there are only a few out there, although I would now like to find a comparative study that discusses and compares the language with Sanskrit, Romansch, and Basque and any of the other related languages that may exist.<br />I had one final comment. Despite English and Lithuanian being very distantly related, it is still possible to find words that are obviously similar. For example, \\"senele\\" and \\"senelis\\" are the words in Lithuanian for grandfather and grandmother, respectively, which are suspiciously similar to the words \\"senile\\" and \\"senescence\\" in English. And the word \\"sunus\\" in Lithuanian is the word for \\"son.\\" Considering that English and Lithuanian probably diverged 3,000-5,000 years ago or more, this is a pretty amazing resemblance.<br />*I'm indebted to the UCLA Language Materials Project webpage for this description.	2003-11-11
905882:US	45193257	R1LX5PEQCF430K	086516486X	603973700	A Comprehensive Guide to Wheelock's Latin: Newly Revised for Wheelock's 6th Edition (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Truly outstanding	This book is almost an essential companion to Wheelock's classic grammar. Linguistics is one of my hobbies and so I've read many dozens of grammars on various languages, from Swahili to Lithuanian to Japanese to Ilocano, so I think I know a good grammar book when I see one, and this is one of the best I've seen, especially on the more inflected languages.<br />Professor Grote is a gifted teacher and writer. His ability to illuminate the more technical aspects of Latin noun declensions and verb conjugations is a joy to read. Although I am primarily a neurobiologist, as I said, one of my hobbies is comparative linguistics and theoretical linguistics, so my background in grammar is pretty strong, and yet I still found this book valuable in helping me with my Latin.<br />For the average student without such a background who is struggling with the complexities of the grammar, this book is  worth its weight in gold, and I can't recommend it highly enough. I only wish there was a comparable book for Greek, which has 8 cases, as compared to Latin's 6 (and the vocative case is rarely used in Latin). In addition to the grammar, his explanations of how the various verb tenses and moods are used semantically are equally good, along with his discussion of the vowel changes and mutations that may seem puzzling at times. And there is the occasional oddity, such as that Latin lacks a true conditional tense, unlike Greek and most other Indo-European languages, and professor Grote explains that, too.<br />Professor Grote makes even the most difficult grammatical concepts seem, if not easy, then much less difficult and abstruse than they seemed at first blush. Overall, a great book and one of the best ever written in its field.	2003-11-11
907320:US	45193257	R1BN8V4A3JA6S6	0486210278	563309818	Essential Japanese Grammar: Dover Foreign Lanuage Study Guide	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Good little grammar for my purposes	My interest is in comparative and structural linguistics rather than in learning to speak, so I didn't mind that this is now a fairly old book and some of the information on current usage is dated. I'm not interested in speaking it so much as understanding a little more about how an Altaic family language works in more detail, as I already have a pretty good grasp of Han Chinese, Germanic, Slavic, and the Romance family grammars and patterns. And for that purpose this book was fine.<br />For example, I learned that Japanese does not have a true future tense--you have to use a version of the present progressive for that--very interesting. In fact, Japanese has none of the complexity that Indo-European family languages show with respect to the handling of time and temporal relationships. However, it is much more complex in the area of modal or mood constructions, which signify a speaker's attitude toward the object, necessity, or probability. Japanese verbs are very regular and are not conjugated for person or number as in many languages, and the few irregular verbs can be counted on the fingers of one hand. What a dream--if only Spanish, Latin, Russian, and French were like that. In that regard, it's very similar to English--as well as Chinese.<br />Another interesting area where Japanese differs radically from our pattern is that adjectives are conjugated to agree with the verb, rather than declined to agree with the noun, unlike English and the other Indo-European languages, and Semitic family languages like Arabic as well. For example, in Japanese you would say, &quot;That sounds interestingly,&quot; for which in English you would say, &quot;That sounds interesting,&quot; with the word &quot;interesting&quot; simply being a subjective complement rather than an adjective being treated like an adverb. But in Japanese the adjective agrees with the verb rather than the noun. Go figure. So overall, this was a nice introduction to the subject that filled a gap in my own background.<br />By the way, in the last 20 years, since I was first studying linguistics, there has been considerable advance in the understanding of Ural-Altaic family languages and their relationships, and there are several good websites that have information on that. So if you're like me and want to pursue the subject further and don't have access to a fine linguistic library like at U.C. Berkeley or Indiana State University at Bloomington, you can find some of that on the web now.wn background.<br />By the way, in the last 20 years, since I was first studying linguistics, there has been considerable advance in the understanding of Ural-Altaic family languages and their relationships, and there are several good websites that have information on that. So if you're like me and want to pursue the subject further and don't have access to a fine linguistic library like at U.C. Berkeley or Indiana State University at Bloomington, you can find some of that on the web now.	2003-11-09
907573:US	45193257	R22MGKKKQTX8G6	9516422888	271776060	The decline of the prefixes and the beginnings of the English phrasal verb: The evidence from some Old and Early Middle English texts (Annales Universitatis Turkuensis. Ser. B)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Interesting theory	One thing English is especially rich in compared to many languages is the large number of phrasal verbs and verb phrases. These are constructions such as \\"add up to,\\" or \\"brush up on,\\" or \\"run out of.\\" This work discusses the evidence for this feature having evolved because of the decline in prefixes in English. This has now been traced as far back as Old and Middle English. Many languages preserve complicated systems of both noun classification prefixes and verb prefixes, such as Swahili, or post-fixes, as in the case of Ural-Altaic languages such as Finnish and Estonian, which have 14 and 15 cases, respectively. Hungarian has 24, and some Caucasian languages in Russia have over 30. In other words, they've never evolved the idea of a separate and free-standing preposition or postposition, as in most Indo-European languages. The result in English is that it has only about 20 different basic sentence structures, since word order has to be relatively fixed since the basic grammatical cases like the nominative, accusative, dative, ablative, locative, and so on, are no longer marked, with few exceptions, such as in the nominative and accusative versions of the pronouns he/him, she/her, and they/them. That's about it in English, although English does have the genitive case as in adding an \\"s\\" to show possession, as in \\"John's car.\\" But getting back to the present book, this work discusses this evolutionary change with respect to current historical linguistic scholarship on English, which should be of interest to professional specialists in English grammar and the Germanic family of languages as a whole.	2003-11-09
907638:US	45193257	RP9AVYWX1409U	0812079191	713085814	Mastering Spanish, Level 2: Book and 12 Cassettes (Mastering Series: Level 2)	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Excellent follow up to Level I class	I have both the Level I and Level II Foreign Service Institute courses, and since I've already reviewed in detail how the Level I course works and compared it with the other major offerings out there, such as Michel Thomas's, Berlitz, and Instant Immersion, I'll keep this review brief. If you're interested I refer you to my review of the Level I class which I've also posted on Amazon.<br />This is basically the advanced course and continues with the same philosophy and structure as the Level I class. It is intended to get you up to speed conversationally as quickly as possible without getting bogged down in too many formal details of the grammar. The approach here is to teach you the grammar by means of many examples of individual spoken sentences and brief conversations and through substitution drills, along with brief discussions of the grammar which are interspersed occasionally between the audio sections. The big, 600+ page workbook allows you to follow along with the native language speakers, which is very helpful also. This contrasts with Michel Thomas's approach, which is just as pricey, but contains no workbook, drills, exercises, or even any memorization at all. It also emphasizes starting with the most basic sentence structures and then building up slowly from there, so that the principles are acquired almost intuitively. I also have the Thomas course and it is excellent as well, and for many people would also be a good choice. I like having the detailed workbook that this course provides, however, so I still have a preference for this one over the Thomas offering. But if you're looking for the most painless approach possible, without the rigors of any formal grammar, the Thomas course might be your best choice.<br />I have a pretty strong background in structural and comparative grammar and linguistics in general so I don't mind a little formal grammar, but most people don't and just want to get a speaking command of the language as quickly and painlessly as possible. For that purpose this course serves very well and is regarded by many as still the best one out there for that. Someone who masters the 24 tapes in these two courses, which is twice as much material as in most of the other big self-study courses, should have a pretty good command of spoken Spanish and be able to do pretty well conversationally.as possible. For that purpose this course serves very well and is regarded by many as still the best one out there for that. Someone who masters the 24 tapes in these two courses, which is twice as much material as in most of the other big self-study courses, should have a pretty good command of spoken Spanish and be able to do pretty well conversationally.	2003-11-09
907701:US	45193257	R194HFQLU7ABF6	0870528939	49572812	Spanish Grammar (Hippocrene Language Studies) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great little Spanish grammar	This the best introductory Spanish grammar book that I have, and I have about half a dozen Spanish grammars, including a couple of the more technical ones. But this is the best one to start with that I've seen. It is actually a standalone Spanish course in that it includes vocabulary and conversational drills and so on in addition to the material on the grammar. I would highly recommend this book as a first grammar, and after this you'll be prepared to tackle one of the bigger, more exhaustive ones. But in order to get conversational in Spanish you really don't need anymore than this. Two other nice features are a list of several hundred nouns and verbs that are either identical in both Spanish and English or else differ by only one or two letters--a very quick and easy way to extend your vocabulary--and a list of several hundred useful expressions. The book also includes a little Spanish to English and vice-versa dictionary of about 2000 most common words in the back, and tables of regular and irregular verb conjugations as well. Overall a very nice little book and very inexpensive too considering what you're getting.	2003-11-09
908936:US	45193257	R3MD7GIL5OP22Y	1582149011	651960270	Spanish: Level 1 (Foreign Service Institute Language Learning Series) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Excellent	I have four of the bigger, pricier Spanish courses out there (along with the Michel Thomas, complete Berlitz, and Instant Immersion Spanish courses) and I think it is the best of the four, with the possible exception of the last one, although the others are very good too. Each course has its strengths and weaknesses, so I thought I'd discuss each one a little by way of comparison.<br />I have the audio tape version of this course. It comes with a 600+ page book that allows you to follow along with the audio tapes, so you can learn to read the language as you improve your speaking ability. Interspersed between the audio portions are brief sections discussing important aspects of the grammar. At that point you can pause the tape, read the few paragraphs on the grammar material, and then resume the audio portion. This makes it very convenient to use. The approach is mostly geared toward getting you conversational rather than imparting all the details of the grammar--which is what most people want, anyway. But some of the grammar they include is fairly technical. I have several other Spanish grammars and this course is the only one that discusses the special co-preterite tense of the verb, which English lacks.<br />The way you can follow along with the text is very helpful. The speaker says a sentence in Spanish, and then they go back and repeat a portion of the sentence, adding more words until you have the complete sentence. This has the effect of allowing you to build up the sentence more easily from its component parts, since in the beginning you'll miss some of the words at normal speed. The workbook even includes a phonetic transliteration of each sentence, but they use a system I don't recognize (it's not the international phonetic alphabet version), so I don't really use that, but it's there if you want it.<br />An especially helpful feature is the so-called substitution drills, where a sentence is given, and then one word is substituted, such as a different subject pronoun, so that you hear the change in the verb conjugation, or a change in the tense or mood of the verb, depending on the situation. This is very useful for getting you used to the basic patterns, as well as the more complex verb conjugations and irregular verbs.<br />The main difference between the Thomas course and the other three is it is completely conversational. It's designed to be as painless as possible, and it works by starting the listener out with very simple sentences, and gradually building up to the more complex ones in easy steps, so that you learn the basic patterns of the grammar more intuitively. There is no manual, workbook, memorization, or other exercises to do. Thomas is renowned for being able to get people to at least a conversational level quickly and painlessly who said no other course had worked for them before (including some famous people such as Woody Allen and Barbra Streisand).<br />The Berlitz course is similar to the Foreign Service Institute's in that it has a workbook that supplements the audio. The Berlitz approach is heavily situational, basing the lessons on different travel situations, such as ordering in a restaurant, asking directions, buying tickets and getting through the airport, going to the bank, and so on. I haven't tried to work with the Berlitz one intensively yet, but my father many years ago was put through the French and Spanish courses for his job, and was able to do quite well with both languages--better than I could from two or three years of studying them in jr. high and high school--when we went on a trip to Europe many years later.<br />The Instant Immersion Spanish course is in many ways the most fun, diverse, and interesting. It uses a combination of the visual and audio modes for teaching. In that way it's similar to the Berlitz and Service Institute courses in that you can hear the audio and follow along and read the text on your computer screen. However, this course taps into the full power of acomputer-based method in a way the others can't.<br />There are dozens of different types of exercises, and they've gone to some trouble to make them more interesting than your usual language course. For example, one of the exercises shows a video along with the native speaker's narration. Then you're given a series of multiple choice questions where you try to answer the questions based on what happened in the video. Another very cool feature is the context-sensitive dictionary. In the vocabulary and grammar exercises, if you don't recall a word, you can just click on the word and the meaning pops up on the screen, which is extremely convenient.<br />Another exceptional feature is the pronounciation exercises. You can record your own speech with a microphone, and then your sound pattern and the native speaker's is compared side by side using actual waveform analysis.  It takes a little while to figure out how to correlate your speech with the recorded sound pattern to make improvements, but after a while you'll get the idea. You can also play yours back to compare yourself with the native speaker. The real-time speech analysis is a very powerful feature, and fun to work with. As you can see, a lot of thought and effort has gone into realizing many of the multimedia features possible in a computer-based program.<br />Hope my little comparison review of Spanish courses helps. Having course buying and learning!a computer-based method in a way the others can't.<br />There are dozens of different types of exercises, and they've gone to some trouble to make them more interesting than your usual language course. For example, one of the exercises shows a video along with the native speaker's narration. Then you're given a series of multiple choice questions where you try to answer the questions based on what happened in the video. Another very cool feature is the context-sensitive dictionary. In the vocabulary and grammar exercises, if you don't recall a word, you can just click on the word and the meaning pops up on the screen, which is extremely convenient. <br />Another exceptional feature is the pronounciation exercises. You can record your own speech with a microphone, and then your sound pattern and the native speaker's is compared side by side using actual waveform analysis.  It takes a little while to figure out how to correlate your speech with the recorded sound pattern to make improvements, but after a while you'll get the idea. You can also play yours back to compare yourself with the native speaker. The real-time speech analysis is a very powerful feature, and fun to work with. As you can see, a lot of thought and effort has gone into realizing many of the multimedia features possible in a computer-based program.<br />Hope my little comparison review of Spanish courses helps. Having course buying and learning!	2003-11-08
918178:US	45193257	R2TH4T0RCJM41L	0595291856	556072522	Is The Truth Out There?: A Journey Through Critical Thinking that Spans Man's History, Origin and Place in the Universe	Books	4	3	22	N	N	A few preliminary comments	This book was only just recommended to me, so I haven't gotten into it very far, but I am eager to see if it lives up to its title, which is amazingly ambitious. I am hoping it will discuss these topics on a fairly rigorous level, and not turn out to be some lightweight, quasi-philosophical nonsense like a lot of what's out there. If it does, I'll revise my review here accordingly. I give it four stars here for the benefit of the doubt, and because the author's heart (or mind) is in the right place.<br />I am dubious though, although I can recommend Michael Shermer's book on the subject. He has a Ph.D. in philosophy and is the editor of The Sceptical Enquirer magazine. I don't know if this author has similar credentials but I will find out shortly.<br />Speaking for myself, however, the concept of \\"truth\\" hasn't fared very well in human hands except in math and logic, where proofs are of course true if they're valid. Everything else is technically suspect, even in the hard sciences, although I don't expect physical and chemical laws such as the law of gravity to be repealed anytime soon. :-) But such laws are still based on empirical evidence that can be explained by a mathematical theory rather than logical proof in the mathematical sense. We believe such theories are \\"true\\" for several reasons, but perhaps the most important is because they can make previously unknown predictions about the real world that can also be shown to be correct--and that we wouldn't have known otherwise. But again, technically theories aren't true; they're simply valid explanations of the empirical evidence that have received considerable experimental confirmation.<br />For those of you well-read in the philosophy of science you will recognize the influence of Karl Popper's falsifiability criterion here, which is that nothing in science ever gets proved--things are only disproved by further experiment-- producing a science that gets at the \\"truth\\" by means of successively greater approximations to 'reality' (whatever that is). :-)<br />And as for areas like typical journalism and paranormal phenomena, rigorous notions of the \\"truth\\" have already gone way downhill by the time we get to those areas. And even in analytical philosophy the theory of truth hasn't done well, and all the proposals I know of have failed--for example, the correspondance theory of truth--which failed because the theory's idea of facts being true propositional statements linked to a real world observable worked well for true statements but not for statements that were false to fact.<br />Anyway, just a few comments on the checkered history of ideas about the truth, and which gives you some idea of how I'd like to see the subject treated. After I've read this book, as I said, I'll redo this review in the light of this new information--assuming it's worth it.ations to 'reality' (whatever that is). :-) <br />And as for areas like typical journalism and paranormal phenomena, rigorous notions of the \\"truth\\" have already gone way downhill by the time we get to those areas. And even in analytical philosophy the theory of truth hasn't done well, and all the proposals I know of have failed--for example, the correspondance theory of truth--which failed because the theory's idea of facts being true propositional statements linked to a real world observable worked well for true statements but not for statements that were false to fact.<br />Anyway, just a few comments on the checkered history of ideas about the truth, and which gives you some idea of how I'd like to see the subject treated. After I've read this book, as I said, I'll redo this review in the light of this new information--assuming it's worth it.	2003-11-01
930049:US	45193257	RZVDKCYQDGVVL	0226672883	193800143	Personal Knowledge: Towards a Post-Critical Philosophy	Books	3	48	100	N	N	Okay for its time, but...	I don't think much of personological/subjective explanations of science, such as Kuhn's and Polanyi's, but I think their views should be heard and considered nevertheless. Western writers seem to have an odd fascination with this sort of approach, for reasons that are understandable historically but that I believe are still untenable, most of which is related to the west's obsession with the individual ego and individual consciousness and with the phenomenological and existential approaches to reality that grew out of that.<br /><br />While I respect Polanyi as a scientist (he was a noted physical chemist), unfortunately I think he's pretty much gone off the deep end in terms of his subjectivistic interpretation of scientific method and of the work of the scientist, which amounts to a form of neo-Kantianism.<br /><br />The first problem I have with this is that by making the human mind the final arbiter of all knowledge and sense data, a systematic ghost of an illusion pervades Polanyi's, and indeed, all Kantian theories, because there is no strong connection to external reality anymore. While I would agree with Polanyi in regard to Kant's basic thesis, that the mind is actively involved in organizing the data of the senses, and that ideas about the external world could not exist unless there were corresponding mental capabilities and constucts to match, this idea, although fine for its day, really doesn't buy you much anymore in my opinion. This is for two reasons, which is the problem of illusionism which I just mentioned, and the second is the approach that has now emerged from the last 75 years of work in neurobiology and the brain sciences, of which these writers seem blissfully unaware.<br /><br />Although we still have a lot to learn, the picture that has emerged so far is both fascinating and impressive. For example, there are 60 trillion cells in a human brain organized into 14,000 major and minor brain centers, and they are all networked together. Each individual neuron has between 3,000 and 100,000 connections with other neurons, producing a neural web of unbelievable complexity.<br /><br />Most sensory neurons are devoted to using feature-detecting algorithms that require advanced calculus to understand, as David Marr has shown. For example, to mention just a few of his important ideas, Marr's demonstrations that retinal receptive field geometry could be derived by Fourier transformation of spatial frequency sensitivity data, that edges and contours could be detected by finding zero crossings in the light gradient by taking the Laplacian or second directional derivative, that excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields could be constructed from \\"DOG\\" functions (the difference of two Gaussians), and that the visual system used a two-dimensional convolution integral with a Gaussian prefilter as an operator for bandwidth optimation on the retinal light distribution, showed that the level of mathematical sophistication as well as just brute computational power that is being devoted to sensory information processing is beyond anything we could have imagined.<br /><br />Since Marr's time, there has been further progress in this area, such as the Bela Julesz's demonstrations that the visual system can extract and compute binocular disparity cues point-by-point for depth information from abstract, non-representational pictures such as random-dot stereograms. There is also the extension of Marr's ideas about monochromatic edge detection into color edge detection, the mathematical theories of nonlinear visual field distortions present in optical illusions, and many other areas.<br /><br />Finally, consciousness itself may yield to research on the brain. In the last few years, consciousness has been shown to be composed of many different separate mechanisms in the brain that are being coordinated in time in order for consciousness to occur. It isn't a single process or central program that runs in the brain, nor is there a \\"master\\" brain center that one can point to where it can be said that consciousness resides, contrary to classical philosophical models which regarded it as unitary and indivisible.<br /><br />Hence, there is very little reason anymore to insist on the fundamental subjectivity of perception in the Kantian sense. It is true that there are visual illusions at the higher levels of sensory perception, but those are now regarded as special cases, and they are being shown to be explainable in terms of mathematical visual field-distortion theories of these mechanisms that can be quantified just like the basic sensory processes, as I mentioned above.<br /><br />Another reason neo-Kantian theories don't buy you much is to consider the work of cognitive psychologists and psychometricians like J.P. Guilford. Guilford has evidence for 120 different, discrete mental abilities. We have only just started to find out how all these areas and abilities actually work, but the resulting theories will far surpass in detail and complexity the simplistic philosophical generalizations of previous centuries about how knowledge is acquired and ideas are formed.<br /><br />The bottom line at this point is that classical ideas like Kant's really aren't wrong, but they are like what classical Newtonian physics was after Einstein, correct as far as it goes, but just a piece of a much more profound, bigger picture. And the rest of that picture will be filled in by work in neurobiology and cognitive psychology, not by further vague philosophical speculation, which can only propose the most general explanations about these epistemological questions, rather than demonstrate in detail how the mind and the brain actually perceive and extract information from reality and then use the information from sense data to generate ideas about the real world.ster\\" brain center that one can point to where it can be said that consciousness resides, contrary to classical philosophical models which regarded it as unitary and indivisible.<br /><br />Hence, there is very little reason anymore to insist on the fundamental subjectivity of perception in the Kantian sense. It is true that there are visual illusions at the higher levels of sensory perception, but those are now regarded as special cases, and they are being shown to be explainable in terms of mathematical visual field-distortion theories of these mechanisms that can be quantified just like the basic sensory processes, as I mentioned above.<br /><br />Another reason neo-Kantian theories don't buy you much is to consider the work of cognitive psychologists and psychometricians like J.P. Guilford. Guilford has evidence for 120 different, discrete mental abilities. We have only just started to find out how all these areas and abilities actually work, but the resulting theories will far surpass in detail and complexity the simplistic philosophical generalizations of previous centuries about how knowledge is acquired and ideas are formed.<br /><br />The bottom line at this point is that classical ideas like Kant's really aren't wrong, but they are like what classical Newtonian physics was after Einstein, correct as far as it goes, but just a piece of a much more profound, bigger picture. And the rest of that picture will be filled in by work in neurobiology and cognitive psychology, not by further vague philosophical speculation, which can only propose the most general explanations about these epistemological questions, rather than demonstrate in detail how the mind and the brain actually perceive and extract information from reality and then use the information from sense data to generate ideas about the real world.	2003-10-22
936289:US	45193257	R17FRNXCXTDFLI	0452266726	53939049	The Mosby Medical Encyclopedia (Plume)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent resource	I have the CD version of the Mosby's, and although I still prefer books to CDs most ways, the CD version is still a good product, so I thought I'd make a few comments on it.<br />First the interface, unlike a lot of reference works on CD that I have, is attractive, simple, and overall well done. I have at least 10 different encyclopedias and reference works on CDs at this point, and the Mosby's is one of the best I've seen. It's easier to use than the Britannica or World Book encyclopedias, for example, and more attractive. It's actually very similar to the Oxford Encyclopedia that I have, which divides the screen up into articles on the right-hand side, with the photos or other media and search boxes on the left. This makes for a nice, uncluttered screen. It probably looks best on a 17-inch monitor (16-inch viewable) or better where you can run at 1024 x 768 resolution.<br />The CD's main features, accessible by icons on the top left of the interface, include a drug guide, handbook of diseases, a human body atlas, resource lists, multimedia, search, and online, which is websites for further information and reseach.<br />The resource lists include lists and charts of various things such as height and weight measurements for girls and boys, selected genetic disorders,  sexually transmitted diseases, safe sex pointers and risks, summary of carbohydrate classes, mode of action of antibiotics, types and causes of fractures, teratogens, and so on. There are about a hundred of these.<br />The multimedia section includes about 1400 photos, over 70 video animations, many useful tables, and a prounouncing dictionary of over 4000 terms. The voice has that computer-synthesized quality, but it's okay and this feature has certainly improved over earlier programs I've seen incorporating this feature.<br />Probably most people will be using the drug and disease entries. These aren't too technical and can usually be understand by the lay person with a little knowledge of basic human physiology and anatomy. I wish the drug entries weren't so short and the disease entries were a little more technical myself, but that's just my preference and one has to consider that this isn't a reference work intended for use by physicians. Overall, this is a quality medical reference for many things and a good value for your money, as the CD isn't very expensive compared to the book.an physiology and anatomy. I wish the drug entries weren't so short and the disease entries were a little more technical myself, but that's just my preference and one has to consider that this isn't a reference work intended for use by physicians. Overall, this is a quality medical reference for many things and a good value for your money, as the CD isn't very expensive compared to the book.	2003-10-17
939467:US	45193257	R3RE7LUT4O1JV	1889489026	90913124	Live Better South of the Border	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent primer to get your feet wet	If there is a more enthusiastic and engaging publicist for the charms of living in that magic land south of the border, I don't know who it is. \\"Mexico Mike\\" Nelson has lived and worked in Mexico off and on for several decades, having operated an import and export business there in addition to driving and travelling over much of the country, and he brings that vast experience to this book.<br />First, I should mention my own situation. I've visited Mexico several times in the past, and have driven across Baja once, but have no experience actually living there. I just started to think about living and retiring early down there. I am 51 years old, \\"semi-retired,\\" and am living in a place in the U.S. where the cost of living is cheap, but am wondering if I can get more for my money in Mexico. If I can find the right situation there, it's possible I might never need to work again, although I'd be on a budget, although not a draconian one. So I was looking for a primer on Mexico to see if my dream of retiring there permanently was realistic and Mike's book seemed to fit the bill.<br />That having been said, this book is geared more toward those who are interested in living in Mexico for an extended period of time but perhaps aren't quite ready to retire there yet. This includes international business people who have been transferred there, artists and writers wanting to live cheaply while they concentrate on that masterwork, and those just starting to investigate Mexico as a possible retirement option.<br />He's not shy about discussing the negatives, however, and you will find much practical advice on finding a safe place to live, what the crime is like in a given area, and how to avoid risks and be safe in both the big city and in rural areas. That having been said, Mike is very clear that in most areas of Mexico you are actually safer than in big American cities, you just need to know what the differences are and act accordingly.<br />He's also very clear about the costs of living in many areas of Mexico. First, the bad news. Gone are the days when you could live like a king on $300 a month. Most places in Mexico will cost you $900-$1200 a month to live, including rent, utilities, and food and entertainment, which means a decent but not huge or luxurious house or apartment in one of the preferred areas by Americans. If you are willing to live outside \\"Gringolandia,\\" which means in a smaller town where most of your neighbors will be Mexicans rather than Americans, you can live for half that if you're willing to economize.<br />If you're willing to rent a small house on the edge of a small town, which means you might be taking cold showers and cooking your meals on a dual-burner propane stove, you can live on $400 to $600 a month if you're careful about expenses. He found a place like this when he first moved to Mexico and loved it. He got a lot of writing done and there were very few distractions. On the other hand, he admits that now he would prefer not to live without quite so many conveniences.<br />And if you want to live in Baja, you can double the $900 to $1200 a month figure, expecially in Cabo, which he says costs about the same as southern California. For that, however, you're getting an area with great conveniences, good medical facilities, and so many Americans that you won't have to speak a lick of Spanish if that's what you want.<br />He says the bottom line, however, is that you can expect to spend about 70% of what you spent in the states to support your old life style, and your standard of living will actually be higher for that amount of money than what you could afford in the States.<br />He also includes advice and info on buying and owning property, art and culture, which banks to use, medical care, where the best language schools are, dating and love life (\\"all latinas have brothers, none of whom has a sense of humour about their sister\\"), and even advice for gays and lesbians. He even says you can call him personally for advice, especially on business matters, and includes his address and telephone number.<br />For me the best part was the section on the different cities and towns and what it was like to live there and what the ambience and cost of living there was like. This includes sections on everything from giant Mexico City with its 21 million people to little mountain villages 7,000 feet up on the central Mexican plateau of just a few hundred people. Many of the towns discussed are around 50,000 people, though, and a number are 200,000 or more. A few are 5,000 or less, for those who really want to get away from the big city and from the other Americans and Canadians to get some real local color.<br />Mike also points out that his book is really for those who need the basics on living in Mexico. He recommends another longer, more detailed book by another writer (which costs more, but he says it's worth it), for those who have read his book and want more information. He also says it's intended more for those who are really looking to retire in Mexico and need something on that. I found Mike's book excellent for my first read and am now considering getting the more detailed and expensive book that he recommends.ersonally for advice, especially on business matters, and includes his address and telephone number.<br />For me the best part was the section on the different cities and towns and what it was like to live there and what the ambience and cost of living there was like. This includes sections on everything from giant Mexico City with its 21 million people to little mountain villages 7,000 feet up on the central Mexican plateau of just a few hundred people. Many of the towns discussed are around 50,000 people, though, and a number are 200,000 or more. A few are 5,000 or less, for those who really want to get away from the big city and from the other Americans and Canadians to get some real local color.<br />Mike also points out that his book is really for those who need the basics on living in Mexico. He recommends another longer, more detailed book by another writer (which costs more, but he says it's worth it), for those who have read his book and want more information. He also says it's intended more for those who are really looking to retire in Mexico and need something on that. I found Mike's book excellent for my first read and am now considering getting the more detailed and expensive book that he recommends.	2003-10-15
950301:US	45193257	R1FIU0P7SY94L6	1892746247	989628038	The Fifty-Minute Hour	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Classic account	This book was the culmination of the phenomenon of the \\"writing psychotherapist,\\" when Freudian psychoanalysis was still at the height of its popularity and psychoanalysts were regarded as intrepid explorers of inner space with prestige virtually on a par with rocket scientists and physicists. Many of the analyst-writers who were popular during this period have long since been forgotten, such as H.A. Overstreet, and his book, The Great Enterprise, but Lindner's has become an enduring classic of the field. No doubt most of that relates to his choice of fascinating cases to detail, such as one about the brilliant physicist who concocted an entire science-fictional world which he inhabited in the chapter, \\"The Jet-Propelled Couch,\\" and which enthralled readers of the book. The book likely would not have nearly the same impact today, but Freud's popularity had not yet waned, and was helped out by dramatic movies with superstar casts, such as Gregory Peck's 1965 movie, Mirage, and Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, in which Freudian analysts were portrayed as heroes engaged in life and death battles with the dark forces of the unconscious. Overall still a classic in the field, and Lindner's fascinating and dramatic accounts of these cases still make for interesting reading.	2003-10-06
951087:US	45193257	R123E4AUVYMK9S	0312870493	29830141	To Reign in Hell: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Unique tale	I don't read a whole lot of either fiction or science-fiction anymore, but this early book by Brust is a surprisingly good tale of the battle that raged in Heaven between the original archangels (such as Michael and Mephistopheles) and their descendents and the evil forces of chaos that threaten to destroy heaven and the universe. Brust avoids all of the pitfalls such a religious drama could fall prey to (such as excessive preachiness or getting too involved with the fine points of the theology), a notable feat in itself in a book like this. The different archangels and lesser angels also come alive as individuals and personalities themselves, one of the most charming aspects of the story, although I don't know if there was a real scholarly basis for these characterizations or not. For example, Michael is portrayed as one of the inherently most powerful archangels in terms of his ability to resist the deadly iliaster (you'll have to read the novel) although he's not necessarily the smartest angel around. Brust keeps the action moving throughout without getting bogged down in the occasional politics and intrigues or the theology, although there are some funny revelations there about that. Apparently angels envy humans, who, although we aren't one-thousandth as strong and powerful as they are--nevertheless we have souls--which the angels oddly enough do not. This makes us lowly humans the angels' spiritual superiors and masters in heaven in God's eyes, which they don't like one bit. Very funny, although again, I don't know if there is a real theological basis for this or not. Overall, a good read and a very unusual if not unique book from the standpoint of the story line. Brust pulls this outrageously different novel off in style.	2003-10-06
956448:US	45193257	R37LMDVQE711G0	006093140X	285203459	The Golden Notebook: Perennial Classics edition	Books	2	16	29	N	N	Overrated	Despite the reputation of the book and of Lessing, I found this book extremely overrated. I found it hard to care about any of the characters, and the plot isn't that interesting, either. The supposedly profound psychology I found rather pedestrian and not especially insightful. Also, and Lessing isn't the only women writer with this weakness, but she doesn't construct very believable or interesting male characters. The female ones are better, though.<br />(A little scientific aside here--since cognitive psychologists and neurobiologists have established that women have superior social intelligence compared to males--I don't understand why this should be the case).<br />I understand the book is more than what the feminists have made out of it, as Lessing certainly has more intellectual breadth and depth than most of the writers working there, but it unfortunately doesn't come across in this book. The author's gloomy world outlook, partly fostered by the failure of the Russian experiment which affected an entire generation of socially minded British intellectuals, is evident. But I didn't really mind that. The world is a depressing place--which is why many authors get neurotic enough to write about it so as to exorcise their demons. :-)<br />So overall, a big disappointment, given my expectations. But I give Lessing some credit for her willingness to experiment with her craft and the medium although ultimately the book is more successful from that standpoint than as a story or novel.	2003-10-01
956847:US	45193257	R6IA7FBQ1W02C	0789432641	961128075	Eyewitness World Atlas CD-ROM (win)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Best CD atlas I've seen so far	Please note that this review is for the 1998 version of this atlas.<br />Although out of print so far this is the best CD-based atlas I've seen, with the possible exception of the one that comes with Encarta. I have the Grolier's, Webster's Millenium, the Oxford, and the World Book Encylopedia atlas too, and it is superior to all of them in terms of the interface, ease of use, flexibility, the quality of the writing, and overall features. The interface is, as with all DK products I've seen, very slick and well done visually. In a CD-based encyclopedia or atlas, the interface can make or break the product, because it doesn't matter how scholarly and well-written the text is if the interface is clunky and hard to use. If it is difficult to use, or if it just has a few quirks or limitations people don't like, people just won't use it and will probably go to another atlas or encyclopedia that may not be as good information-wise but which at least is usable. Here the Webster's atlas really falls down, and the World Book's isn't much better. The Grolier's is better, however, and I found it at least acceptable there. Encarta's is quite well done and allows you multiple ways to access information from the main country screen, which is nice.<br />So the choice for me comes down to either Encarta or DK's. One thing the Encarta atlas allows you to do is to zoom in or out at about 10 levels of magnification. The DK only allows you one far and two close views. This definitely isn't as nice as the Encarta and is one big selling point there. Also, the Encarta allows you to scroll around to neighboring countries at will, which makes it extremely convenient to explore an entire area and visualize geographical relationships more easily. Amazingly, the World Book, Grolier's, and Webster's won't allow you to do this either unless you zoom out to the world view and then reselect the country you want. This is pretty lame and they should really fix that, as this makes the CD version no different from having the different country maps bound together in a book, which requires that you flip back and forth. The only reason to prefer a CD version, besides space, is whether the potential digital and multimedia capabilities are exploited.<br />One reason, though, to prefer to DK is the very well written country descriptions. Let's face it, the dull, dry country articles typical of most atlases are mostly suitable for putting you to sleep or doing those boring school assignments where you have to pick a country and write a report on it. The DK's are the closest thing to something a little lively and interesting there and I give them a lot of credit for that. For example, I learned that Uzbekistan has the world's largest operating gold mine and is the fourth largest producer of cotton in the world. Another former Russian country, Tajikistan, is mostly bare mountains and only 6% of the land is suitable for agriculture, but although very poor, it contains 14% of the world's known reserves of uranium, and derives most of its income from that. I also learned that Namibia, in south Africa, has the world's largest uranium mine, and is the second largest producer of lead, and the third largest producer of cadmium, in the world. Also, the Okavango river carries a higher volume of water than all of south Africa's other rivers combined. On the social side, amazingly, the constitution not only gives women equal rights but legalizes positive discrimination in favor of women! Those are just of few of the interesting facts you can glean from these articles.<br />Another nice feature is that along the left side of the screen there are 17 different categories of information you can select to get info about the country, ranging from People, Resources, Economics, and Political, to Health, Education, Crime, and  even Communications and Tourism. This makes it easy to pick the topics you want instead of having to read the whole article. It makes cross-country comparisons very easy as you can use these topics as screens and filters to compare. However, the Encarta's articles are probably a little more scholarly and technical, and often run 15-25 pages each for many countries. The most important country articles, such as those for Japan, China, Russia, Brazil, and the various countries in Europe, and so on, can run to 120 pages or more.<br />Hope my little comparison guide to atlases helps. Happy altas buying and reading!sy as you can use these topics as screens and filters to compare. However, the Encarta's articles are probably a little more scholarly and technical, and often run 15-25 pages each for many countries. The most important country articles, such as those for Japan, China, Russia, Brazil, and the various countries in Europe, and so on, can run to 120 pages or more.<br />Hope my little comparison guide to atlases helps. Happy altas buying and reading!	2003-10-01
983507:US	45193257	R3BSQR6QNHKNJL	0064603067	987606294	The Human Brain Coloring Book (Coloring Concepts Series)	Books	5	169	181	N	N	Excellent find in the field	Neuroanatomy has to be the most boring of the world's most interesting subjects. I ought to know because I almost got a Ph.D. in it. Sure, the brain is fascinating, but then there's all these nerves and brain centers you have to learn at least something about before you can relate to the physiology, which is the really interesting part, especially when you find phrases like \\"...periodic, subcortical, excitatory, scanning-pulse coupling processes in the lateral geniculate nucleus.\\" Then you find that the brain has 14,000 major and minor brain centers and nerve pathways, and suddenly, you're wondering why you're majoring in anatomy or pre-med and why didn't you study something more interesting like the history of Albania (B-O-R-I-N-G!) or the comparative sexology of the higher primates (possibly interesting).<br /><br />That having been said, this is one of the most accessible and entertaining books to learn neuroanatomy from I've seen. It's not a basic book, however, and will be most useful to students of the brain sciences and nurses, physicians, and so on who have some previous training in the subject. It would make an excellent review text since those with previous experience probably wouldn't even need the coloring feature. I found the summaries of the various brain areas very clear and concise, better than what I had to learn from 25 years ago when I was a young graduate student. (Ah, these young whippersnappers have it so easy). Maybe neuroanatomy is why I switched to mathematical neurobiology and biophysics--it was easier to tolerate. Anyway, overall a very well written book and presentation of a difficult subject with an interesting slant in terms of the coloring feature.	2003-09-08
984077:US	45193257	REY6JJ7YYWAE7	0062517716	703072724	The 100 Simple Secrets of Successful People: What Scientists Have Learned and How You Can Use It	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Useful and interesting	I admit to being a sucker for books with titles like \\"Secrets of the Most Successful People, or \\"The 10 Greatest Secrets of Success,\\" or \\"Secrets of Success the World's Most Successful People Don't Even Tell Their Wives,\\" and so on. I always figure that these people, since they're probably richer, more famous, or better looking than I, have somehow divined the ultimate secrets of existence, or at least of the Socratic summum bonum (i.e., the \\"good life\\"), and that for $12.99 plus tax, I can have those selfsame secrets handed to me on a platter, or at least on the printed page.<br />Well, I can't say this book was a disappointment, as it is full of much useful, interesting, and practical advice. Sometimes the research cited isn't always clear as to the practical application, as another reviewer here mentioned, but I didn't mind that. I've read many less useful academic tomes than this, probably why I've never been as successful as most of the people in this book.<br />Anyway, this book really does have some interesting and fun little pieces of information. For example, one of them states that the fear of hiring someone who was TOO talented is a factor in one-fifth of all hiring decisions, because of the fear that this person will make everybody else look bad to management. No doubt this explains my own dubious success in life. :-)	2003-09-08
985016:US	45193257	R2HFYM6WNDSUWZ	0716732106	425781487	Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers: An Updated Guide to Stress, Stress Related Diseases, and Coping (2nd Edition)	Books	5	90	96	N	N	Fascinating and disturbing	Having just finished Robert Sapolsky's very funny A Baboon's Memoir, the funniest autobiography by a naturalist I've ever read, I thought I'd look up his other popular books, the other one being The Trouble with Testosterone. Sapolsky is considered the country's foremost authority on stress. I have some background in stress research myself, and once heard the originator of the stress concept and of stress research, the great Hans Selye, speak at a convention many years ago, who Sapolsky mentions in his books.<br />Most of us know we should do a better job of managing stress in our lives, including myself. This is the sort of book I plunge into with a combination of morbid fascination and hypochondriacal paranoia. This is because the book itself was rather stressful to read, since I found out in manifold and gory detail about all the damage I'd been doing to my brain and body with all those high-paying but high-stress jobs I've had all my life. Although I made good money, I found out that I'd probably aged myself about 10 years in the process. However, as I said, the book makes for fascinating if somewhat morbid reading. For those with the adrenal cojones to handle it, this is the best book on the nature of stress and its effects that I've read. It's more a book on the physiology of stress, and so there isn't much on practical coping strategies, so if you're interested in information on that, you'll have to look elsewhere.<br />That having been said, I thought I would mention the best strategy I've ever encountered, of which I'm sure Sapolsky would approve, since it's based on some sound research in the area, and relates to one of his main points. Sapolsky makes a convincing case that we evolved for a very different stress regimen than our current lives and civilization provides. Instead of occasionally facing serious, life-threatening situations as we did thousands or millions of years ago, such as a predator attack, our lives are now much safer but filled with many continual, reoccurring, constant, irritating, but lesser stressors that still build up over time, contributing to such problems as heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, and even muscular dystrophy. The psychological end result of this is that many people constantly fret and agonize about things until they're worried all the time, or it even generalizes into more serious free-floating anxiety and panic attacks.<br />Hence, it's been found that the best way to deal with one's concerns and anxieties is to attack the issue of them getting out of control to the point where they're weighing on your mind all of the time, using a sort of \\"containment strategy.\\" The best way to deal with this is to set aside some time each day--10, 15, or 20 minutes at most--for worrying. In other words, set aside a dedicated worry period, where if you need to, go ahead and worry yourself sick about it. Then put it out of your mind and enjoy the rest of your day. Another important thing you can do is to not just worry about everything but to put some constructive thought into how to better deal with your problems. Sometimes you won't have a good idea about how to do that for a while, for days, maybe weeks, but don't let that get you down. Persist in your efforts until you succeed. Most of success in life is persistence--not talent or ability--as most successful people will tell you. :-)<br />The other principle I learned that was valuable in reducing stress was actually a Zen idea--the idea of living life in the present. According to this Zen principle, one should strive constantly to live in the present, in the present moment, and to enjoy that to its fullest. Otherwise, your other pressing concerns will weigh you down and you will never truly enjoy life to the fullest. There will always be something else on your mind. Someone who's always worried about their other concerns can't truly live in the present, and therefore will never truly enjoy or make the most of whatever activity they'reengaged in. Part of their mind is always somewhere else. Therefore, strive to always live in the now, in the present moment.<br />The final important thing I'd like to pass on is about attitude. Realistically, life is never as bad as it seems to us during our darkest and most depressed moments--nor as wonderful as it seems during our happiest, most ecstatic moments. It's somewhere in between. The point here is that one should also cultivate the proper attitude--since that's often the only thing one has total control over in one's life. If you're the sort of person for whom even little things get you down--which is more of us than we would like to admit--then strive to be more objective. The little things can't really hurt you. They're just annoying psychologically because they bruise our egos a little bit. Save your emotional energy for the really big problems in your life, instead--because there will be more than enough of those. Cultivate a positive, upbeat attitude so that the little things are practically beneath your notice. Let them slide off you like water off a duck's back. This is also another important Zen principle--that too much ego impedes our progress in life.<br />Well, that was all by way of providing some practical advice for coping with stress in addition to all the scientific neurological and endocrinological information Sapolsky provides in his book. Good luck and happy stress-free reading and living!engaged in. Part of their mind is always somewhere else. Therefore, strive to always live in the now, in the present moment.<br />The final important thing I'd like to pass on is about attitude. Realistically, life is never as bad as it seems to us during our darkest and most depressed moments--nor as wonderful as it seems during our happiest, most ecstatic moments. It's somewhere in between. The point here is that one should also cultivate the proper attitude--since that's often the only thing one has total control over in one's life. If you're the sort of person for whom even little things get you down--which is more of us than we would like to admit--then strive to be more objective. The little things can't really hurt you. They're just annoying psychologically because they bruise our egos a little bit. Save your emotional energy for the really big problems in your life, instead--because there will be more than enough of those. Cultivate a positive, upbeat attitude so that the little things are practically beneath your notice. Let them slide off you like water off a duck's back. This is also another important Zen principle--that too much ego impedes our progress in life.<br />Well, that was all by way of providing some practical advice for coping with stress in addition to all the scientific neurological and endocrinological information Sapolsky provides in his book. Good luck and happy stress-free reading and living!	2003-09-07
987303:US	45193257	R3NDAAZTLNBSUW	0823025128	519043146	The Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Universe	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fun and enjoyable book on physics	It's amazing that I'm the first person to review this great book. This isn't exclusively an astronomy book; it actually covers almost all of classical and modern physics. There are chapters on everything in our universe from the very small to the very large--from quantum mechanics to classical physics, to the solar system to galactic evolution, the Big Bang, and cosmology. If you've wondered about what quarks really do, or the union that produced the electroweak theory, or the theory of the strong nuclear force, what such particles as W and Z bosons, Higgs bosons, gluons, and so on, really do, the cosmological theories of 11-dimensional string physics and membrane or M-theory, this book is a great place to start. To mention just two of the fascinating things I learned, results from the CERN accelerator in Geneva support the idea that nuclear particles absorb Higgs bosons in order to acquire mass, and that the asymmetry in the distribution between positively charged and negatively charged matter in our universe is thought to provide a direction to time itself.<br />The chapters are beautifully illustrated and the text is very clear and readable, and the subjects are presented at a level that would be useful for secondary up through the first year of college. Many special features and sections accompany the text, such as sidebars illustrating important concepts or capsule biographies of famous physicists and scientists and their contributions, such as those of Murray Gell-Mann and Richard Feynman, and dozens of others. As if that weren't enough, there is a sizeable section on observational astronomy with star maps, a chapter on planetary astronomy, and even one on space exploration detailing every important manned and unmanned mission into space. Finally, there is a glossary of technical terms, tables of useful astonomical information and physical data, and more. This is a great book to just browse or to read for the wealth of information on just about every topic in modern physics and astronomy.modern physics and astronomy.	2003-09-05
987924:US	45193257	R60A6AWWX1M3L	0075536854	996195696	Culture Against Man	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Classic cultural critique	Henry was a cultural anthropologist who studied contemporary American society rather than primitive cultures as most do, although he he got his feet wet studying primitive cultures. This gave him a certain perspective on society that I appreciated, although many might find his criticisms a little harsh. Nevertheless, Henry's analysis of the American culture of the 50's is hard-hitting, trenchant, and mostly spot-on. His analysis of \\"Blondness\\" is entertaining as well, and the chapter on \\"Human Obsolescence,\\" where he summarizes his observations in convalescent and retirement homes, are only too familiar to readers today given the scandals that have surfaced in this industry in recent years. Overall, a classic of social commentary and one of the greatest to come out of the 50's. In reading this book, you'll see that in many ways, American culture hasn't changed much since the book was written almost 50 years ago.	2003-09-04
988391:US	45193257	R1PZJKE90AB7AC	0465014992	205541550	The Cultural Contradictions Of Capitalism: 20th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Outstanding classic	Classic study by an outstanding scholar covering many interesting topics and issues in modern American society. As Bell has noted, America is a country where seemingly paradoxical cultural traits often find happy marriages, and to some extent, even happier divorces. He doesn't mention this, but Japan is an example of another country where this often occurs. Although the U.S. and Japan are very different, they share a common ability to incorporate useful and pragmatic cultural ideas and traits even if they are in conflict with the dominant ideology. We Americans are a practical people, after all. :-) Bell's knowledge of many important sociologists and other thinkers is deep, and he is able to use their insights in novel and creative ways. I also found his discussion of The Young Intellectuals at Harvard, such as Van Wyck Brooks, and their criticisms of middle American culture, such as the boring mediocrity of \\"Bourgeois sex,\\" to be quite entertaining. My only fault with the book is Bell's style may be a little bit forbidding for some people, but a little patience here is more than rewarded. Qualitative sociology doesn't get any better than this.	2003-09-04
990294:US	45193257	R2TGHGCRTPFN4D	0691048371	924332563	Eye and Brain	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Classic work on perception, updated	This is the classic introduction to perception and psychophysics, and remains as readable and entertaining as it was 30 years ago when I read the first edition. Gregory's was one of the few books on the subject accessible to the non-specialist that tackled some of the more difficult topics, such as how the physiology and anatomy of the eye contributes to perception, as in the case of physiological optics, retinal receptive field geometry, ocular domimance and saccadic eye movements, as well as other traditional areas such as color perception, space perception, and so on. There are also very engrossing discussions of split-brain experiments and optical illusions, probably the most fun part of the book for most people, which are worth reading just for themselves. Overall this is still a great book and one that everyone should read to gain better understanding of how their own visual systems and brains work to enable us to see and perceive the many simple and complex aspects of the visual world. After reading this book you'll have much of the background to read David Marr's later book, entitled simply Vision. This important work contains discussions of more complex visual cortical brain mechanisms and of Marr's important work in that area. Marr discusses his important concept of the \\"primal sketch\\" for extracting line primitives, which relates to retinal receptive-field geometry, and then works up from there to more sophisticated spatial-frequency filtering algorithms and mechanisms--ideas that revolutionized our understanding of vision and the brain.	2003-09-02
996143:US	45193257	R1VUH3VTKRZV9	0309085470	703970000	The One True Platonic Heaven: A Scientific Fiction on the Limits of Knowledge	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Unique and enjoyable work	Casti's unique blending of science and fiction is a delight to read. The story takes place against the backdrop of the early years of the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study--a true citadel of genius if there ever was one. Characters like Einstein, Kurt Godel, J. Robert Oppenheimer (who was its director), Hermann Weyl, Wolfgang Pauli, and John Wheeler (not all of whom were at the institute) come to life as they discuss and debate the great scientific issues of the day. Much of the story transpires over conversations in the halls of the institute, or at the gregarious and likeable von Neumann's cocktail parties.<br />Some of the best conversations are between Godel and Einstein as they stroll along the streets of Princeton. The gnomish and reclusive Godel was one of the few people who could surprise Einstein, and one time Godel (who was most famous as a logician) said he'd just happened to be playing around with Einstein's relativistic field equations and had found a solution that had escaped Einstein that suggested that time didn't exist, or at least there was no meaning to our ideas of temporal succession. In this solution, closed, relativistic, timelike lines existed in space, and one could go forward in time as well as backward. Einstein is stunned and impressed by this little bombshell that Godel had dropped on him--yet another example of Godel's amazing genius, and why he was known as the &quot;Grand Exalted Ruler&quot; of the &quot;One True, Platonic Heaven&quot;--the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study. And that's not to mention the fact that Godel's famous incompleteness proof threw into doubt the great Hilbert's entire program of completeness in mathematics which had been widely supported. This is just one of the many fascinating discussions which Casti skillfully uses to explore and explain very clearly and concisely not only some esoteric science but also such questions as the ethics of science, aesthetics in science, Einstein's controversial and infamous stand on quantum indeterminacy, and the scientist's place in society.<br />Casti also manages to inject some drama into the story with the controversy surrounding von Neumann's proposal for building the first big electronic computer at the Institute--a proposal which many of the Institute's professors opposed because it was against the Institute's stated mission of doing only pure and not applied research. Through some clever politicking and persuasion, Oppenheimer manages to get the project approved, although it was the only such engineering project ever undertaken at the Institute, and nothing else like it was ever done again. Another side story involves Godel's elevation to full professor which had been delayed because of some of his personal quirks and otherworldly nature--the job of full professor also involving not just thinking about your subject all day long but also requiring spending considerable time in various administrative duties which the other professors thought Godel unsuited for. But Oppenheimer points out that how can any of them be full professors if Godel, possibly the greatest of them all, is not? Again, through his usual skillful persuasion, Oppenheimer manages to get it approved. All in all this is a fine little book (it's only 150 pages long) blending both science and fiction in a very readable and entertaining way.nfamous stand on quantum indeterminacy, and the scientist's place in society.<br />Casti also manages to inject some drama into the story with the controversy surrounding von Neumann's proposal for building the first big electronic computer at the Institute--a proposal which many of the Institute's professors opposed because it was against the Institute's stated mission of doing only pure and not applied research. Through some clever politicking and persuasion, Oppenheimer manages to get the project approved, although it was the only such engineering project ever undertaken at the Institute, and nothing else like it was ever done again. Another side story involves Godel's elevation to full professor which had been delayed because of some of his personal quirks and otherworldly nature--the job of full professor also involving not just thinking about your subject all day long but also requiring spending considerable time in various administrative duties which the other professors thought Godel unsuited for. But Oppenheimer points out that how can any of them be full professors if Godel, possibly the greatest of them all, is not? Again, through his usual skillful persuasion, Oppenheimer manages to get it approved. All in all this is a fine little book (it's only 150 pages long) blending both science and fiction in a very readable and entertaining way.	2003-08-28
996471:US	45193257	R3GXMEMKE38BAE	0743202414	73196434	A Primate's Memoir: A Neuroscientist's Unconventional Life Among the Baboons	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very funny, absorbing, and fascinating account	Robert Sapolsky spent a total of 21 years in the Kenyan bush observing and studying baboons, learning about their way of life and studying their stress levels. During that time he had more funny misadventures than a whole precinct of Keystone Cops, and I have to agree with another reviewer here that Sapolsky's book is the funniest memoir by a naturalist that I've ever read.<br />At times, however, it's more like the baboons who are getting to study the young human's response to stress, as Sapolsky is forced to eat nothing but canned mackerel in tomato sauce, rice, and beans for months at a time, hordes of wild animals like wildebeests trample and crap over everything in camp during the migration season, and even the local elephants take to invading the camp and eating the roof and walls of his hut. He has a seemingly never-ending stream of erratic and unreliable camp assistants, and the one other western scientist in the area, was, as Sapolsky puts it, as feral an example of the unwashed and unhousebroken species of field biologist as he had ever seen.<br />Some of these images will stay with me for life, such as the time that he was ill with diarrhea and had to answer the call just as a troop of elephants decided to visit his camp, quizzically but stoically watching the miserable young scientist doing his duty as they ate the branches and leaves of his lean-to which he had only just built. Actually, it was his Kenyan camp assistant that had built it, who went crazy shortly thereafter when his attempt to dam the upper part of the river with a mud dam came to naught. But that's another story.<br />Then there's the time he encountered a couple of Masai tribesman, his only real neighbors, who wanted to know how he was tranquilizing the baboons he was studying. Sapolsky explained it was with a tranquilizer dart, and that the drug would work on a human too. No way, said the Masai, a baboon and human are totally different. Sure, says Sapolsky, we're very similar. In fact, we came from them and used to have tails just like them. No way, say the Masai, who are getting more agitated. Yes, insists Sapolsky, in fact you could have a baboon heart. Now the two Masai are really upset and are brandishing their spears in his face, after which point Sapolsky stopped arguing the point with the Masai \\"fundamentalists\\" and everything calmed down.<br />There is a dark side to Sapolsky's memoirs too as he recounts his visit to Uganda which occurred during the Tanzanian/Ugandan war, when it wasn't safe to travel through much of the countryside, but Sapolsky was determined to see some of the sights there, and one night the part of town he was in got shelled by Amin's army and he and the driver of the truck he'd hitched a ride with spent the night huddled under the truck for protection. During a failed coup, he was beaten at an army checkpoint and witnessed street violence in Nairobi. And he had many sad as well as funny stories to tell about the hapless Kenyans, mostly young men from the local maize farms who came and went as his camp assistants, who seemed less happy about the rigors of a bush camp life than Sapolsky himself.<br />But the book isn't all about the funny and sad stories of us (presumably) more evolved humans. Sapolsky gives much interesting and detailed information about the lives of the baboon troop he studied, especially their mating and dominance rituals and interactions, which aren't so different from us humans in many ways. The most aggressive and determined individuals rise to the top of baboon society. The females want to mate only with them. Sound like a familiar pattern? :-)<br />Anyway, there are dozens of other funny and entertaining stories in this book. Sapolsky writes well, and we often see the absurdities and complexities of our more advanced culture reflected in the simplicity and naivete of local tribal life.<br />I just had one minor nitpick. Although this is a trade-sized paperback, the print on the page is still alittle small and even then the book is 300 pages long. They needed to make the font about 25% larger but obviously they were trying to keep the book from being 400 pages long because of the extra expense.<br />Overall, this is a very funny, entertaining, and interesting account, and without a doubt is the funniest scientific memoir I've ever read.little small and even then the book is 300 pages long. They needed to make the font about 25% larger but obviously they were trying to keep the book from being 400 pages long because of the extra expense.<br />Overall, this is a very funny, entertaining, and interesting account, and without a doubt is the funniest scientific memoir I've ever read.	2003-08-28
998296:US	45193257	R1ENL8C7QY8JK3	0674843924	356647737	The Structure and Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics	Books	5	56	61	N	N	Great book on quantum theory for the ambitious reader	This is a superb teaching book for taking your understanding of quantum mechanics to the next level. Much of the book is devoted to understanding a good deal of the underlying math and mathematical formalism, such as Hilbert spaces, Hermitians, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, Cantor's calculus of infinities, the analysis and representation of spin properties, and other very cool stuff which I didn't have a very good grasp of before. And yet the previous math required is minimal, really only high school algebra, and Hughes defines new concepts as he goes along. Actually, there is some calculus here and there, but not a whole lot, which is fine, as my advanced calculus is pretty rusty at this point.  So Hughes keeps the advanced math to a minimum. This doesn't mean the book is easy reading, as the algebra of Hilbert spaces includes such things as the logical properties of inner products, spectral decomposition, vector projections, the analysis of different vector operators, and so on, and that's only one small section in the book, not to mention the fact that Cantor's ideas in number theory about the ordinality or sizes of inifinite series is pretty mind-boggling stuff. Basically, Cantor established the improbable and surprising fact that certain infinities are \\"bigger\\" than others. One way he did this was to show that some infinities are \\"countably infinite\\" and others are not. Fun stuff.<br />All this is just preparation for understanding the quantum mechanics, however, and the author does a fine job of linking the mathematical concepts with the applied ideas in quantum theory. This is important, since quantum mechanics is basically a purely mathematical theory. Unlike Einstein's Special and General theories of Relativity, which, although pretty mind-boggling theories in themselves, can still be explained by using more or less intuitive and easy to understand spatial concepts and illustrations. You've probably encountered these in some of the books on the subject, such as doing the fun thought experiment of having two observers, with one travelling at the speed of light and the other stationary, to demonstrate the relativistic effects on space, time, and matter in the case of the Special Theory. But unfortunately those kinds of entertaining and informative thought experiments are difficult to do in quantum mechanics, which is why a book like this that explains the concepts at a relatively high level clearly and concisely is such a great find. Overall, this is an excellent \\"upgrade\\" book written by a gifted teacher on a very difficult subject. There are very few books like this that bridge the gap between the purely popular presentations of quantum theory and the very difficult technical quantum physics books.ch as doing the fun thought experiment of having two observers, with one travelling at the speed of light and the other stationary, to demonstrate the relativistic effects on space, time, and matter in the case of the Special Theory. But unfortunately those kinds of entertaining and informative thought experiments are difficult to do in quantum mechanics, which is why a book like this that explains the concepts at a relatively high level clearly and concisely is such a great find. Overall, this is an excellent \\"upgrade\\" book written by a gifted teacher on a very difficult subject. There are very few books like this that bridge the gap between the purely popular presentations of quantum theory and the very difficult technical quantum physics books.	2003-08-26
999525:US	45193257	RGZ96DUVNCX0V	067972446X	758537597	The Harmless People	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Classic, well-written, and enjoyable study of the Bushmen	This is a detailed, fascinating, and even beautiful account of the author's field study of the Kung! Bushman. Along with the Australian aborigines, the Bushman of the Kalahari desert, who inhabit an arid tableland in southwest Africa, are considered one of the two most primitive cultures in existence. The Bushmen aren't native to the Kalahari but were forced there as a result of conflicts with the white man and other tribes after the 17th century. Thomas gives a detailed account of their way of life and how they are able to survive in one of the most desolate places on earth. The Bushmen are very short of stature, averaging only 4 feet, 10 inches tall, and their skin has a yellowish tinge that is different from the blacker skin of their surrounding neighbors. The Kalahari has no surface water, and the rare rainfall immediately dries up. One of the few ways they get moisture as well as food is the tsama melon, which grows underground. The tsama melons are so important that the rights to a particular locale are inherited, which is unusual among the Bushmen. To survive in this harsh environment, the Bushmen have become expert botanists and can identify over 300 different kinds of plants, and they hunt antelope with poisoned arrows. Marriage among the Bushmen can occur at a very early age, but for women it is considered inappropriate to become fully sexually active and to marry before the age of 12. After having been almost completely wiped out between the 17th and the 19th century through conflicts with other tribes and the white man, there are now about 50,000 Bushmen inhabiting the Kalahari.<br />Years later, when I saw the movie, The Gods Must Be Crazy, I recalled my first encountering the Bushmen in Thomas's wonderful little book. Several years after that, I had the opportunity to hear Jamie Uys speak, the south African director of the movie, The Gods Must Be Crazy, and he also described what it was like to work with and live in the Kalahari with the Bushmen during the making of his movie. Both he and Thomas commented that there was something very likeable about the Kalahari Bushmen, who now live very peaceably in their little arid paradise with relatively little conflict and strife. Well, paradise isn't exactly the word for the inhospitable environment where they live, but nevertheless the Bushmen came across in both Thomas's and Uys's accounts as overall quite happy and content with their life. Ever since reading this book, I have thought it ironic to consider that the more advanced cultures in other parts of the world, including those of us in the modern western countries, who are considerably more advanced, probably live no more happy and less stressful lives than the primitive Bushmen. Of course, one must be careful about the \\"Noble Savage\\" fallacy, but in the case of the Bushmen it seems to be true. This book is an updated edition of the one I read many years ago in college. Overall a classic study that takes its place alongside other great anthropological classics of Africa like Colin Turnbull's The Forest People, about the pygmies.the making of his movie. Both he and Thomas commented that there was something very likeable about the Kalahari Bushmen, who now live very peaceably in their little arid paradise with relatively little conflict and strife. Well, paradise isn't exactly the word for the inhospitable environment where they live, but nevertheless the Bushmen came across in both Thomas's and Uys's accounts as overall quite happy and content with their life. Ever since reading this book, I have thought it ironic to consider that the more advanced cultures in other parts of the world, including those of us in the modern western countries, who are considerably more advanced, probably live no more happy and less stressful lives than the primitive Bushmen. Of course, one must be careful about the \\"Noble Savage\\" fallacy, but in the case of the Bushmen it seems to be true. This book is an updated edition of the one I read many years ago in college. Overall a classic study that takes its place alongside other great anthropological classics of Africa like Colin Turnbull's The Forest People, about the pygmies.	2003-08-25
1017078:US	45193257	R2K9W7U4ENIKW0	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A brief comment on his main criticism of democracy	I just had a brief comment on Zakariah's main criticism of democracy in this book. He blames democracy for the failure to stop the Nazi's rise to power in 1933. Perhaps, but one case doesn't make a successful argument against democracy. If a people are venal or corrupt or violent enough or are too afraid to confront the powers that be with regard to their bad and evil policies, democracy probably won't work, either. In that sense I agree with Nietzsche's comment that \\"It is not that our institutions are no longer any good for us; it is we who are no longer any good for our institutions.\\"<br />The real problem, however, which is clear from studies of brain neurophysiology (as well as anyone who has ever read history), is that humans would rather live down to their lowest impulses than the other way around. Although humans can attain to more peaceable and advanced thought sometimes, it's normally too difficult for us because the more violent and primitive limbic system area of our brains (i.e., the paleomammalian brain) still dominates almost everything we do. This neurological finding explains what our history has always told us: that we're really just violent uber-apes with a thin veneer of civilization grafted on top, and not a very secure or sturdy one at that, since it gets peeled off all too often in the violent annals of history.<br />Anyway, all this was by way of saying that given human nature, no form of government is ever going to work that well. It doesn't matter what the outward form of a government is, monarchy, democracy, oligarchy, or whatever, the most aggressive, ruthless, and unprincipled people always rise to the top. Hence, the only social or political system that is appropriate for the human race is one that gives the least amount of power to both ordinary citizens and their rulers, to prevent or limit abuses of power. Democracy works better for that than any other system, so despite its admitted defects and limitations, I have to come down on the side of democracy.e side of democracy.	2003-08-09
1019693:US	45193257	R35O1UR4I4R3D4	0670030287	571028958	Synaptic Self: How Our Brains Become Who We Are	Books	5	50	58	N	N	A few comments on self & consciousness	As other people have written very complete reviews already, I just had a few miscellaneous comments I hadn't seen elsewhere, so I thought I would make them here.<br />First, a caveat. Although I'm not a professional neuroscientist, I have a strong background in both psychology and the neurosciences, so I didn't find the book difficult to read. But most people would be advised to try a more popular book on the brain before tackling this one. A couple of other reviewers here also mentioned that.<br />But on to my main comments. This book attempts to explain the self in neurobiological terms. Influenced perhaps by 2400 years of philosophical and psychological speculation on the subject, neuroscience has recently taken on the task of trying to explain it too. Without getting too far into all the technical details, what has become clear from recent research is that consciousness isn't a unitary phenomenon in the classical sense--it results from the coordination and integration of distinct and separate brain areas and mechanisms. Hence, the classical idea--and our normal perception of consciousness as a discrete and unitary entity--is an illusion. And the same goes, as Ledoux shows, for the phenomenon of the self.<br />So far so good. My only problem with this is that consciousness and the sense of self, although they impress us as the most important and immanent aspects of our mental life, may be ultimately unimportant. Although interesting, it is quite possible that they are simply an \\"epiphenomemon\\" or side-effect of a brain that is complex and highly evolved enough to contain an internal representation of itself, as if one had programmed a big computer to act like it was self-aware. In other words, although consciousness is nice, it may not be important or necessary to our survival. (And considering all the suffering that consciousnesses and selves are subjected to in this life, perhaps we'd all be better off without them). :-)<br />Although not the main focus of the book, I'd like to say a few things on the subject of biophysical reductionism before I conclude this review. Many people seem loathe to consider themselves just a collection of atoms, molecules, synapses, and nerve cells--perhaps because it doesn't seem to leave much room for the soul. Ask yourself, since the brain consists of over 14,000 major and minor brain areas and nerve pathways, where exactly would the soul be located? In the frontal cortex, with its relation to personality and long-term motivations? In the thalamus, with its function as a sensory relay and termination station (some sensations are processed in the thalamus--such as orgasms)? Or how about the limbic system, with its important functions in more primitive motivations and drives? The main point is that all brain areas have specialized functions. Being \\"the soul\\" doesn't seem to be part of the picture.<br />But getting back to the reductionism question, the fact that we can't totally reduce behavior to biology doesn't mean this isn't the case. It just means we don't know enough yet. However, even if we never learn enough to rigorously reduce behavior to biology (and I suspect that will be the case, given that the brain has 60 trillion neurons with between 3,000 and 100,000 connections each, so we'll probably never get the entire brain mapped), it seems pretty obvious that consciousness still depends on the brain. This is clear from the many degenerative brain diseases that progressively damage critical areas needed for memory, personality, and ultimately the self, to the point where the person is no longer conscious and eventually becomes completely brain dead, with the amount impairment being proportional to the amount of nerve damage.<br />Well, I didn't mean to dwell on such a morbid subject, but I can't think of a better demonstration that we are all basically our \\"brains.\\"<br />Overall, this is a well written, interesting, and enjoyable account on a fascinating subject for those with some background already in the neurosciences.ckground already in the neurosciences.	2003-08-07
1021104:US	45193257	R21EN3WG07OST9	0789435276	702959109	Ultimate Beer	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Very enjoyable and informative	This is a large, coffee-table sized book on nice, glossy paper with beautiful photos and graphics. Those of you who know Jackson as a beer and scotch writer need no introduction to him, but for those of you who won't, Jackson has authored numerous books on single-malt whisky and beer and starred in and wrote the &quot;The Beer Hunter&quot; TV series, where he travelled the world in search of great beers.<br />Jackson puts his vast knowledge of beer to work in this very attractive work. There is a tremendous amount of enjoyable detail, history, tasting notes, and other information in this book. In contrast to some of his other books, this one is more topically organized--that is, there are sections on many of the different types and styles of beers, &quot;Winter Warmers&quot; (i.e., the bock beers), &quot;Strong Ales,&quot; and &quot;Belgian Wheats&quot;-- and so on. Also interestingly, the later sections are on picking beers to go well with foods, and there are separate sections on seafood, beef, poultry, etc. These sections take up perhaps one-third of the book.<br />The layout and writing is well organized and fits well with the graphics on each page. Each section has an introductory paragraph or two to introduce the style of beer, giving the basic facts and some history. Then the rest of the area on each page shows photos of prominent examples of each beer with descriptions, including historical info on the brewery and tasting notes. Over 450 important beers are pictured and discussed, making this a veritable treasure trove of fun information on all types of beer. Overall another great beer book from Jackson, and if I had to pick one beer book from him to have, this would probably be it.	2003-08-06
1022773:US	45193257	R23QATAWT0GH0N	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great story	An exhaustively researched, detailed, but also very entertaining and dramatic story of the famous racehorse. Seabiscuit was an unlikely candidate for a throughbred champion, which Hillenbrand makes clear in her discussion of Seabiscuit's inauspicious start in life. But through the sheer persistance, drive, and loving care of his owner, trainer, and rider, Seabiscuit eventually emerges as a champion despite all his disadvantages. Although it's about a horse--this is a true Horatio Alger story if there ever was one.<br />One final minor point, I recall one amazing statistic about Seabiscuit, which I knew before reading this book, was that Seabiscuit got more mentions in the newspapers in his biggest year than the president of the United States (unfortunately I don't recall what year that was now). That is truly an amazing fact and is just one other testimonial to how popular and famous he became.	2003-08-05
1023022:US	45193257	R3E3T5G9K57RNZ	915542600X	184335448	Personhood and Agency: The Experience of Self and Other in African Cultures: Papers Presented at a Symposium on African Folk Models and Their (ACTA Universitatis Upsaliensis 14)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent collection of papers	Although I am mainly a neurobiologist by training, I started out in the humanities and social sciences. I still have an interest in them, and occasionally tackle impressive sounding tomes like this in those fields. I didn't have much of an idea about personality issues like this in African cultures compared to Oceania, Asia, and Europe, and this book helped to fill in some of those gaps. Prior to this I'd read Elizabeth Marshall Thomas's study of the Kalahari Bushmen and Colin Turnbull's The Forest People, about the pgymies, so I had some previous background in a couple of African cultures.<br />As my specialty is perception and sensation, I can't resist making a comment about the Turnbull book that I found interesting. At one point Turnbull goes with a small group of pygmies to the edge of the forest, something they rarely do, since they are truly a forest people, and their enemies, the Blue Men, inhabit the more arid plains adjacent to the forest. They look out over the plain and see water buffalos in the distance. One of the pygmies remarks on how small they are. Turnbull realizes the pygmies, who never see animals at a distance of more than 50 feet or so in the dense forest, don't realize that the buffalos are hundreds of yards away, and so visually misjudge their actual size, since their normal environment doesn't provide them with the experience of learning size relationships at greater distances.<br />I've also read and studied somewhat on African art, which contributed importantly to artists such as Picasso and Cubism in his famous, Les Demoiselles D'Avignon. As such, African, especially western African art, shows similar characteristics of formal fragmentation and distortion for expressive effect. Tribes like the Senufo, for example, who live along the northern border of the Ivory Coast in western, sub-Saharan Africa, have separate castes for artisans and artists. Most of the tribe is involved with agriculture and raising livestock, but artists have high prestige similar to a wealthy farmer. There are three of these special castes, one which makes household furniture and intricate carved doors that are highly prized, another that makes wooden figurines mostly used for ceremonial purposes, and goldworkers who make fine ornaments and jewelry.<br />This book is more on the psychology and personality side, of course, than the aesthetic. This collection of papers by a number of researchers will give you a better background in the issues of identity and self with respect to both male and female roles in different African cultures. Although I'm not an expert in this area and can't say for sure, this is the only scholarly collection I've seen on this topic for Africa.estige similar to a wealthy farmer. There are three of these special castes, one which makes household furniture and intricate carved doors that are highly prized, another that makes wooden figurines mostly used for ceremonial purposes, and goldworkers who make fine ornaments and jewelry.<br />This book is more on the psychology and personality side, of course, than the aesthetic. This collection of papers by a number of researchers will give you a better background in the issues of identity and self with respect to both male and female roles in different African cultures. Although I'm not an expert in this area and can't say for sure, this is the only scholarly collection I've seen on this topic for Africa.	2003-08-05
1025081:US	45193257	R1O6PDXBUFE2HR	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Unique and disturbing	This is a very dark, brooding, and mostly depressing--but nevertheless--extremely well written novel. Faber's style borders on the poetic at times and he writes with confidence for such an inexperienced novelist (I believe this was his first book). Part of the book is a detective story, and Faber reveals only what is needed to keep you guessing and moving along until he finally springs the surprising and grisly secret on you. It would be all to easy to label the book misanthropic also, because of all the unattractive and unprepossessing people who are abused and killed in it, were it not for the book's anti-vivisectionist message. I note Faber's bio includes a stint as a professional medical guinea pig. No doubt that had something to do with this. :-) Some readers will no doubt note the similarity of this plot element to the classic \\"V\\" science-fiction series from the 80's, but I didn't mind that too much. The story is mostly an exploration of the main character's miserable existence and consciousness, and how she relates to the plight of the humans who are being captured and prepared for export. I don't want to tell you anything more than that. Overall a very unusual and disturbing novel. I look forward to what Faber will do next.	2003-08-03
1025242:US	45193257	R3DPZ0V4R7KTZP	0937381748	235291589	Principles of Brewing Science: A Study of Serious Brewing Issues	Books	4	119	120	N	N	Excellent technical coverage	This is a fairly technical discussion of the subject of brewing chemistry. It's probably more than your typical home-brewer will want to get into, but if you've got some biochem background, or have read Dr. Lee Janson's Brew Chem 101 book and are looking to read on from there, (or you're a very masochistic home-brewer :-)) this would be the next step to take. It does require a greater knowledge of biochemistry and some math (not too surprising, since Dr. Fix had a Ph.D. in math from Harvard). I note the problems with the citations another reviewer here mentioned, who said Dr. Fix refers to his own work and his other book too often, but I didn't mind that too much. Dr. Fix was certainly a competent professional in both math and brewing chemistry, and he did much important work on his own. The important thing is that this book helps to bridge the gap between the professional manuals of industrial microbiology and brewing chemistry and the professional literature. After completing this book, if you want more information, you'll have to go there, such as:<br />1. Beer and Wine Production: Analysis, Characterization, and Technological Advances (ACS Symposium, No. 536)<br />2. Biotechnology of Malting and Brewing by James S. Hough<br />3. Malting and Brewing Science: Hopped Wort and Beer (Volume 2) by D. E. Briggs, et al<br />4. Brewing Microbiology by Iain Campbell<br />5. Methods of Analysis of the American Society of Brewing Chemists, by the American Society Of Brewing Chemists<br />6. Malting and Brewing Science : Volume 1 (#Y0343)<br />by Dennis Edward Briggs, James S. Hough<br />7. Brewing Yeast and Fermentation by Chris Boulton, David Quain<br />Except for the Brewing Microbiology book by Campbell, all of the above are big, expensive professional volumes, but they represent some of the best technical titles out there.<br />The book also has a nice introduction summarizing some of the important developments of the last 20 years that have made great improvements in beer, such as the use of modern double pre-evacuation bottle filters to cut down on cold-side oxygenation, the awareness of the staling effects of unsaturated long-chain aldehydes, the realization that hot-side aeration could contribute to this, and the importance of malting and non-enzymatic browning also in this process. These were all important developments that led to the modern low-oxygen brewhouse.<br />So overall, a very fine discussion of all these issues, and I'd actually give the book 4.5 stars if I could.eer, such as the use of modern double pre-evacuation bottle filters to cut down on cold-side oxygenation, the awareness of the staling effects of unsaturated long-chain aldehydes, the realization that hot-side aeration could contribute to this, and the importance of malting and non-enzymatic browning also in this process. These were all important developments that led to the modern low-oxygen brewhouse.<br />So overall, a very fine discussion of all these issues, and I'd actually give the book 4.5 stars if I could.	2003-08-03
1034701:US	45193257	RVQIPGWSLLZY8	0882669400	34800508	Brew Chem 101: The Basics of Homebrewing Chemistry	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Excellent introduction	This is a clear, concise and not too nerdy intro to brewing chemistry. For advanced home-brewers or chem buffs it might be too basic, but for us non-nerdy types this book will be very helpful. The book is only about 100 pages, so it isn't a major undertaking to get through. The author deliberately avoids getting too technical and keeps things simple. So rather than discussing exhaustively the many chemical reactions in the brewing process he tends to highlight the most important molecules and chemicals, discussing their properties and what qualities they contribute to the final beer (such as fruity, spicy, dry, bitter, pleasant, unpleasant, etc.) This book would make a good stepping stone to George Fix's book on brewing chemistry, which is more techical and requires some knowledge of biochemistry and some math too (not too surprising, since George was a Harvard mathematician). If you've read books on home-brewing and want more information, this book will be very helpful.<br />Although brewing chemistry is quite complex if one considers all the details, the basic idea is quite simple. Yeast ferment a sugar-rich combination of malted barley (or other grains, such as rye or wheat) and hops to produce alcohol and a variety of other metabolites that give the different flavors and qualities to beer. For example, I learned that one difference between lager and ale yeasts, besides the well-known distinction that ale yeasts are warm temperature, bottom-fermenting and lager yeasts are cold temperature, top-fermenting, is their ability to digest the sugar raffinose. Unlike sucrose or glucose, which are disaccharides and monosaccharides, respectively, raffinose is a heavier trisaccharide and ale yeasts are unable to metabolize it. Thus, heavier sugars, such as amylose, amylopectin, and so on, get into the final brew, which is why ales are typically heavier, fruitier, and sweeter than the cleaner and dryer-tasting lagers. The yeast primarily digests glucose, fructose, and sucrose, and maltose. Melibiose, a disaccharide like sucrose or maltose, is also present but can't be used. This is because the bond between the two glucose molecules is the same as raffinose.<br />The other important ingredient is hops. Hops are just the leaves of the hop plant, and the important thing is that the leaves contain glands that house essential oils and acids that provide bittering and flavoring to the finished brew. Although these glands contain 250 essential oils, the most important ones are the alpha acids such as humulone, cohumulone, and adhumulone, which are derived from the soft resins in the glands. The beta acids derived from the hard resins are less desirable. It is the isomerization of the desirable alpha acids, the changing of the molecule to a slightly different structural configuration with the same chemical constitution, that produces the pleasant bitterness in beer. The beta acids produce a less pleasant and desirable bitter quality.<br />Terpene molecules such as myrcene and humulene are also important. The oxygenation of humulene gives an elegant and refined flavor and aroma to beer. The same thing happens with myrcene, which produces a floral and herbal character from the production of two molecules, geraniol and linolool, and two other related molecules, geranyl acetate and geranyl isobutrate. However, this is also accompanied by a bitter quality that can be unpleasant if these myrcene by-products are present in too great a quantity, which is usually only a problem with certain species of hops, such as the Cascade strain, which contain high percentages of myrcene. But the widely used Cascade strain is prized for the floral and spicey ales they can produce.<br />There is also a discussion of ions and their contribution to flavor. For example, the English Burton ales are famous and use water from Burton on Trent which is high in calcium, sulfates, magnesium, sodium, and chloride. Janson notes that the presence of these molecules (and in thehands of competent brew-masters) results in a very complex and delicious brew, which is why one must pay attention to the quality of the water for certain styles of beer.<br />Well, I've gotten more nerdy in this review myself than I intended. But Janson's book will provide you with much more information if you're interested.  Overall, a very readable and informative introduction to the area of brewing chemistry. After reading this, if you're game, pick up Dr. George Fix's Principles of Brewing Science, which is more technical, but which bridges the gap between the even more technical journals and big professional manuals of brewing chemistry. If you can get through that you're definitely eligible for your brewing chemistry nerd badge.hands of competent brew-masters) results in a very complex and delicious brew, which is why one must pay attention to the quality of the water for certain styles of beer.<br />Well, I've gotten more nerdy in this review myself than I intended. But Janson's book will provide you with much more information if you're interested.  Overall, a very readable and informative introduction to the area of brewing chemistry. After reading this, if you're game, pick up Dr. George Fix's Principles of Brewing Science, which is more technical, but which bridges the gap between the even more technical journals and big professional manuals of brewing chemistry. If you can get through that you're definitely eligible for your brewing chemistry nerd badge.	2003-07-26
1034719:US	45193257	R2S7PHJHOWQW9C	B00005VVOS	234427555	A far sunset	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent story from little-known author	I read this SF novel 35 years ago and really enjoyed it. Cooper wasn't especially well-known as an SF writer, but I recently looked up his name, and he has at least a dozen books out, and a number of short story collections. They're probably all out of print now, but I wished I'd seen more of his books back then as I would have bought them. His real name was Richard Avery.<br />Anyway, this story about a psychiatrist on an interstellar ship who gets marooned on a planet with an Iron-Age culture was one of my favorite SF novels of the 60's. When it becomes clear he won't be rescued immediately, he settles into local town life, and has various misadventures there, such as when a kite he makes for a young boy gets away from the boy and ends up in the local ruler's palace in a place where it shouldn't have been. The ruler isn't very happy about this, so he's briefly interrogated and tortured, then let go.<br />He pensively watches life around him in the village, and there's a sort of wistful nostalgia to his situation of being a 21st century earthman trapped in a more primitive culture. He finds a certain satisfaction in living the simple life, and we see the absurdities of our more complex and advanced civilization reflected in their simplicity and naivete. He observes the villagers continue to make progress in much the same way as the early Greeks and Romans must have, such as the invention of the wheel and axle, and primitive ball bearings. In some ways the inhabitants of this planet are more intelligent than humans and he's occasionally surprised by their ingenuity and intelligence.<br />After several years a rescue ship arrives and he's finally saved. Overall a fine story from an author who should be better known.	2003-07-26
1036892:US	45193257	R2KQJMLETDSW4N	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Another readable and fascinating account	Winchester is one of the most talented science writers on geology today, and I'm not surprised he turned his talents to the subject of Krakatoa, as it's hard to find a more dramatic geological story anywhere. When Krakatoa blew up, a small island in the Sunda Straits off Sumatra, it pulverized 4.3 cubic miles of rock from the crater, a blast equivalent to 10,000 Hiroshima-type bombs (which was a 20-kiloton bomb). The blast was heard 3,000 miles away in China, and turned night into day in the area for 48 hours. The waves travelled around the world at least three times, and were recorded in the Thames River in London, half way around the world. A 100-foot tsunami crashed onto the nearby island of Sumatra, killing 20,000 people on Sumatra alone, and sinking 5000 small and large ships in the area. There were beautiful red sunsets all over the world for two years after the explosion due to all the dust that was blown into the atmosphere. Flaming lava bombs came down from the sky, some of them onto ships in the area.<br />I once had the interesting experience of actually finding a ship captain's log who was in the Sunda Straits when this happened, and he thought Second Coming of Christ had arrived, and that, as the bumper sticker used to say, \\"Jesus is coming and boy is he pis_ed!\\" Although the Krakatoa explosion gets most of the attention since it happened during modern times, another bigger explosion occurred here in the U.S. about 10,000 years ago. Although not mentioned in the book, I thought I'd mention it here since we're on the subject. This was Crater Lake in Oregon. Crater Lake is the remains of Mt. Mazama, and when this volcano blew up in a similar explosion, it  pulverized 7.1 cubic miles of rock, making it almost twice the size of Krakatoa. One can only wonder, given how much damage Mt. St. Helens did, how much worse it would have been had the explosion happened today.<br />Overall, another interesting and fascinating account from Winchester.	2003-07-24
1043074:US	45193257	RVEOI8KCI70EJ	1883319188	715318878	Flashing Steel: Mastering Eishin-Ryu Swordsmanship	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very clear and concise presentation of concepts	This book covers the philosophy and techniques of Eisshin-ryu iaido, probably the most popular of the many schools of Japanese swordsmanship. Eisshin-ryu iaido is especially well-known, for example, for its fast-draw techniques.<br />Keep in mind that it's not really possible for a beginner to learn the kata from a book. I would recommend you get Shima sensei's videos from Panther Productions for that, which I have also. If you're already knowledgeable about the forms, then this book will be useful for reminding yourself of certain things.<br />So for most people the main strength of this book is in the simple, clear, concise, and understandable descriptions and explanations of iai, Budo, and samurai principles and philosophy. The authors often illustrate their discussions by historical examples of famous Iai masters, samurai, and generals in past centuries, making the philosophical ideas much more concrete and easier to understand for westerners and non-experts.<br />Since the advent of the video tape, I don't generally buy books like these as references for the kata. If you want that, you can find these tapes sometimes used for less than the price of this book new. So if you're looking for that I would suggest you do that instead. However, the book would be useful for anyone needing to learn or brush up on the Japanese names and terminology for the katas, parts of the sword, philosophical principles, etiquette, and so on. If you already know the katas pretty well, you can recognize them from the photos, and learn the terminology that way (which is what I'm doing).<br />If you're a novice I'd recommend this book before trying to read Draeger's famous book, Japanese Swordsmanship, which might be too difficult if this is your first exposure to these ideas. But after reading this one you'll be in good shape to tackle other, more technical works.<br />I've also had the pleasure of meeting and talking with Hanshi Shimabukuro on several occasions at seminars, and he certainly exemplifies the principles and precepts of iai in his daily life and character. This is one of the main points emphasized in the book--that iai isn't just another martial art--however sophisticated--it's also a philosophy of life and living with implications beyond the merely mechanical, physical, and mental aspects of the mastery of the sword.<br />I had one more comment. As the great Yale physicist and philosopher, Frederick Northrup observed, one interesting convergence between western and eastern philosophy is that at the highest levels they both become analytical epistemologies, or theories of perception. This was also evident in the discussions in this book of the four levels of perception of the samurai, and how they are used.<br />Overall, a fine book on this interesting and still not very well known and understood art.ainly exemplifies the principles and precepts of iai in his daily life and character. This is one of the main points emphasized in the book--that iai isn't just another martial art--however sophisticated--it's also a philosophy of life and living with implications beyond the merely mechanical, physical, and mental aspects of the mastery of the sword.<br />I had one more comment. As the great Yale physicist and philosopher, Frederick Northrup observed, one interesting convergence between western and eastern philosophy is that at the highest levels they both become analytical epistemologies, or theories of perception. This was also evident in the discussions in this book of the four levels of perception of the samurai, and how they are used.<br />Overall, a fine book on this interesting and still not very well known and understood art.	2003-07-19
1043418:US	45193257	R1U82IS4BTGTTK	155832125X	152571860	Paul Kirk's Championship Barbecue Sauces: 175 Make-Your-Own Sauces, Marinades, Dry Rubs, Wet Rubs, Mops and Salsas (Non)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A brief comment	I'm a big sauce fan (in more ways than one) so if you like to try different sauces this book is full of great ideas for different sauces, seasonings, marinades, rubs, mops, you name it. The sauces range from sweet to tangy and sour to peppery and spicy. This book will rub you the right way and your meat too. If there's a saucier book on the market I don't know what it is. Overall a great barbecuing book with lots of savory and fun sauce ideas to try.	2003-07-19
1044085:US	45193257	R367GNEE36GCSZ	0300100280	505560033	Dr. Beach's Survival Guide: What You Need to Know About Sharks, Rip Currents, and More Before Going in the Water	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Interesting and useful book	This book is full of interesting info and useful tidbits about the dangers and hazards of going to the beach. Some of this I already knew, but much of it was new. For example, when I was growing up in L.A. as a beach bum, I learned that you can spot riptides by standing on the cliff or getting a little elevation, such as by climbing up a lifeguard stand, and looking for a triangle of white water pointing out to sea. They could be anywhere from 50 feet wide to hundreds of yards wide, but they were detectable if you knew what to look for. I also learned that most sharks don't like the murky water where the waves are breaking and stirring up the sand, and to head for that if there was trouble. Better yet, just get out of the water. I learned how to recognized each shark species by their fins and which ones to get out of the water if they appeared, such as bluefins, which are also known man-eaters in addition to the infamous great whites. Interestingly enough, technically great whites are only \\"man-biters\\" rather than mean-eaters. They usually bite humans by mistake looking for seals, their favorite food, and so spit it out. Of course, that's not much consolation to the person at that point. Some of these attacks are because a swimmer in a wet suit looks a lot like a seal with their dark, blubbery skin. It's also probably not a good idea to decorate the bottom and sides of your sea kayak with pictures of seals, as I saw once. :-)<br />Having been at the beach many times and body-surfed some pretty big waves occasionally, I've had a few harrowing experiences myself. I once had the experience of being in an undertoe that actually pulled me underneath the water, but only for about 5 seconds. It was still a little scary. One time I stupidly tried to ride an 18-foot wave and almost got killed because the wave was what the Aussies call \\"a dumper\\" and it smashed me on the bottom. You should avoid fast-breaking dumpers because of that. I think the biggest wave that's safe to ride for most people is probably about 10 feet, unless you've got a belly board, which can outrun the break. Wearing one swim fin (yes, only one is needed, because it's inconvenient to have two fins on) is a trick experienced body-surfers use, that's also helpful for catching waves. Back in the 60's, I saw TV footage of this crazy guy belly-boarding 30-foot waves at Waimea. Talk about guts.<br />The beach that's the king of the riptides is Sunset Beach in Hawaii. Many people have died there because of rips, and it's capable of pulling you under, too. Once it pulled 3 surfers under at the same time, who unfortunately drowned. One thing to remember is if you \\"wipe out,\\" be sure to tuck and roll up into a ball. One thing that happens to tourists and neophytes at Sunset is that when they go \\"over the falls,\\" they don't tuck and then get slammed face first into the bottom, breaking their necks. This happened recently to a young couple that was on their honeymoon, and it's happened a number of times to inexperienced swimmers and body-surfers before. So be careful about that.<br />Speaking of getting pulled under, I once had the idea for a little invention, a small oxygen cylinder that would weigh maybe 5 or 10 pounds max but that would contain enough air to allow you to breath for a few minutes, if you were going swimming or body- surfing, especially at a potentially dangerous beach like Sunset. Not sure if it would be practical, but I never did follow up on it to find out. But there were a number of times when I wiped out on a big wave and didn't get to take a full breath before I got slammed under, and then I got held down for 20-30 seconds or so, or had to stay down that long because of other breaking waves, and I was almost out of air a couple of times before I was able to surface, and that would have been nice to have.<br />Another odd fact is that the reason why your feet itch after a day at the beach, at least on western U.S. beaches. It's not because of the hot sandand the salt water. It's because of the pieces of jellyfish, especially man-'o-war, that wash up on the beach, and can still irritate your feet even after days on the sand.<br />Well, if I haven't scared you off completely from going to the beach again, this is a great little book to learn about all the hazards and dangers. Good luck and happy beach-going!and the salt water. It's because of the pieces of jellyfish, especially man-'o-war, that wash up on the beach, and can still irritate your feet even after days on the sand.<br />Well, if I haven't scared you off completely from going to the beach again, this is a great little book to learn about all the hazards and dangers. Good luck and happy beach-going!	2003-07-18
1044241:US	45193257	R25O0DFO8VJA8B	0393320693	101683356	Tuva or Bust!: Richard Feynman's Last Journey	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fun read	I just had a few miscellaneous comments on this book.<br />Although this book isn't so much about Feynman's last trip as about the trials and tribulations he and his longtime friend Leighton experienced trying to get there, this was still an enjoyable book. Feynman himself passed away from cancer shortly before they got permission to actually travel to Tuva, a remote region of Mongolia near the Altai mountains, a 10,000-foot-high mountain range that separates eastern Mongolia from western China. But because of his illness, Feynman himself isn't so much the protagonist in this story so much as the inspiration, as Leighton discusses the research and preparations that led up to the final journey. But there is still enough of the inimitable Feynman, the &quot;curious character&quot; as he calls himself, in the narrative for it to be enjoyable to long-time Feynman fans. The pictures of Feynman in an elaborate Tahitian headress playing the drums at a concert and dressed up like a Tibetan lama with hat and prayer wheel are truly comical and show the great physicist certainly had a sense of humour about himself too--even as he was dying from cancer.<br />I came to the book partly because I already knew something about Tuvan throat singing and had read a little bit about Ural-Altaic linguistics, and so knew something about the Mongolian languages, and a little about the life-style of the herders in the area. It turns out the Altaic language group has had some capable linguists studying the family over the last 30 years, and a lot more is known now than in the past. I've found at least one site with much good information on Mongolian and Altaic languages on the web in the last year.<br />But all that was by way of saying, stangely enough, that I actually knew something about this remote and obscure area of the world before reading this book, and so was interested to see what sort of adventures Feynman and his friend might have there. Although Feynman himself never made it there, I learned much about the country I hadn't known before, and having Feynman's unique and funny perspective on it made it all the more enjoyable.re, I learned much about the country I hadn't known before, and having Feynman's unique and funny perspective on it made it all the more enjoyable.	2003-07-18
1044432:US	45193257	R1C9V6AO5O5MD7	0670031518	879167194	The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature	Books	5	21	25	N	N	A timely tonic for our timid times	If there is a wittier and more engaging polymath than Prof. Pinker out there writing on psychological issues, I don't know who it is. In this book Pinker summarizes and presents evidence from many lines of research: cognitive psychology, neuroscience, behavior genetics, and evolutionary psychology, to show that humans have a basic, in-born nature. In American society's quest for perfect political correctness, however, this idea fell into disrepute among various intellectual circles in the last few decades, including feminists, minority advocates, and the post-modernist left. This is interesting, because in the past, this was simply called &quot;human nature,&quot; and no-one with any education or common sense believed otherwise. At one point, back in the early years of the last century, the leading American psychologist, William MacDougal, as well as most behavioral scientists at the time, believed all behavior was due to instincts. While it is equally obvious that much of human behavior is due to learning and enculturation, there is no doubt that inborn or nativist influences are important as well. That this is no longer accepted as true just goes to show you how far the Hegelian dialectical pendulum can swing in the interest of spin rather than real science. This is doubly ironic considering that American scientists have done most of the important research and won most of the Nobel prizes in neurophysiology (which is my field), which, if anything, supports an even more nativist position than the cognitivist view.<br />To give the spin doctors an example of this, I cite the phenomenon of the orgasm. Does anybody really believe that this is a learned rather than an inborn behavior? For one thing, we know what brain area this occurs in, which is in the somatosensory area of the thalamus, the large structure just below the cerebral cortex. If I remember correctly, it's in a center with the tongue-twister name of the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis (I'm not certain about that anymore, but in any case, it's in one of the thalamic somatosensory areas).<br />Anyway, the other interesting thing I learned is that some epileptics develop seizure focuses in this area. This means their orgasms go on for the length of the seizure, which is often several minutes. Especially the women patients say this is much more pleasurable than anything they could get before. Considering these people's orgasms last 10 times longer and are probably 10-100 times as intense as a normal person's due to the abnormally high neural activity level in the brain, that's not hard to believe, especially since these people basically lose interest in every other aspect of their lives, their friends, family, job, and so on, and basically have to be hospitalized. They just sit there, yearning, hoping, for that next seizure (which has no convulsions associated with it, so it's very different from the usual syndrome).<br />Well, I didn't mean to dwell in so much detail on the neurobiology, but when one finds cases such as these, one is reminded that humans are the product of both nature and nurture. To mention just one more example, there are patients who, because of a microstroke, can no longer use conjunctions or articles in their speech, but are otherwise unaffected. And there are those who can name the purpose for an object such as a cup, but can't give the name anymore, or who can give the name, but can't say what it's for, as a result of a stroke in the language and association area of the temporal cortex. This demonstrates that the brain areas for the definition or function of an object versus just the naming or vocabulary storage function, are separate and distinct areas in the brain. After reading example after example of this sort of phenomenon in your studies, you very quickly get the idea that if it's not in the brain, it's not anywhere. And the brain is just the outcome of the genetics.<br />So for a much more balanced view on this subject than the simplistic, pop-cultural pabalum that gets passed off as authentic science these days, I highly recommend Pinker's very well written and informative book. Even if you're of the other ideological persuasion, it'll give you something to think about and give you a better background with which to think about and discuss these important issues than the pop psychology discussions and politically motivated spins that are all too prevalent these days.implistic, pop-cultural pabalum that gets passed off as authentic science these days, I highly recommend Pinker's very well written and informative book. Even if you're of the other ideological persuasion, it'll give you something to think about and give you a better background with which to think about and discuss these important issues than the pop psychology discussions and politically motivated spins that are all too prevalent these days.	2003-07-18
1045391:US	45193257	R2BUPAXE2XC18E	0345376595	691321715	Pale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A brief comment	I noticed a few negative reviews that seemed to be more about religion than this book, so I wanted to make one brief comment.<br />Sagan isn't liked by fundamentalist religious types since he preferred a rational worldview and an open-minded investigation of reality (otherwise known as &quot;science&quot;) to religious dogmatism.<br />Why people like this worry about Sagan I don't know. Einstein believed in God, so if you want a scientific authority to support your beliefs, you can't do better than that. You don't need to worry about Sagan, since even his reputation is much less than Einstein's.<br />It's also obvious these people haven't read Paul Tillich, perhaps the greatest of all Christian theologians. As Tillich very wisely pointed out, faith that has to justify itself isn't true faith.	2003-07-17
1048334:US	45193257	RBBXI7Q28G5YL	0953176630	210856611	Jeet Kune Do: The Principles of a Complete Fighter	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Eclectic and interesting book	I'm a pretty eclectic martial artist myself, having trained in Okinawan, Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Filipino, and western systems, including empty-handed and weapons-based styles, so the very eclectic aspect of this book didn't bother me as much as some people. For me it's all &quot;sauce for the goose,&quot; as they say. If you have primarily trained in one or two arts, this book will expose you to some other concepts, which is fine, too. For me, the most important aspect of the book was the section devoted to multiple attackers. From my own experience in training and teaching martial arts, this area is one of the most neglected. Other than the classic Nakayama and Draeger book on defense against multiple assailants, which of course was Shotokan-based, and Bucksom Kong's Tiger-Crane set Hung Gar book, which showed some applications of the form, there are few books on the market covering situations with multiple attackers. But these scenarios should be practiced also, especially by advanced students who are already compentent defending man-on-man with one attacker.	2003-07-15
1050431:US	45193257	R2MNZDIPL7F06K	0962128015	311578993	Surf Gecko to the Rescue!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Laughing Gecko returns	The Gecko is considered good luck in Hawaii. This children's tale follow's up on the author's previous The Legend of the Laughing Gecko: a Hawaiian Fantasy, in which the Gecko character has various misadventures with other native Hawaiian animal life, such as the Nene Goose, and Black Bufo. The Gecko's crazy laugh gets him in hot water and then gets him out of trouble with Black Bufo (Bufo being the genus for toad, so you can guess what kind of animal it is). In this story, Gecko gets into further hot water, so to speak, but he surfs his way to the rescue and comes through in the end. By the way, the gecko, which is a lizard common in southeast Asian and the Pacific, gets its name from the fact that its call sounds just like \\"gecko.\\"	2003-07-13
1050526:US	45193257	R24R7J02ZNH49C	0380792745	948903576	The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of his wackiest	I just had a few brief comments.<br />With a giant, prehistoric, horny, telepathic marine lizard named Steve who can induce erotic yearnings in other creatures for miles around (including humans) as the main character, this is possibly Moore's most outrageous novel yet. I got a kick out of the scene where the lust lizard tries to mate with the silver gas tanker truck, mistaking it for a female (the lust lizard having silver sides also) with the resulting explosion. Feeling rebuffed after having been blown about 100 feet into the air by the explosion, but not being much the worse for wear otherwise, the lizard thinks, \\"A simple no would have sufficed.\\"<br />Anyway, you gotta love an author who can give you moments like that.	2003-07-13
1051402:US	45193257	R1L51IWZJA556	0743245172	37966606	The Laws of Money, The Lessons of Life: Keep What You Have and Create What You Deserve	Books	2	48	59	N	N	Some comments & a couple of tips to get started	Although this isn't a bad book, I think Orman's earlier books were much better, so I recommend you try those rather than this one. This book repeats a lot of that material and doesn't offer much that's new. And some of it is a little too touchy-feely. An occasional rah-rah pep talk is okay, but there's too much of it in this book.<br /><br />Also, another problem, having taught people investing principles myself, and which isn't so much the fault of this book as the whole genre, is these books are geared more toward someone who already has money and needs to know how to manage it better. So most of the advice is about basic investing principles and wealth preservation such as avoiding unecessary risks and keeping diversified, developing a sensible, long-term investing strategy and wealth-building program, minimizing taxes and mutual fund and brokerage account expenses, and so on. There's very little help for the person of modest income or limited time who doesn't want to read a 400-page book to learn how to buy their first stock or mutual fund.<br /><br />That being the case, I thought I'd pass on a couple of things I've learned the hard way. I've read dozens of books on the stock market and finance by just about every important stock trader and investor out there and have done everything from very conservative to very risky investing strategies with both stocks and options, including such things as aggressive day-trading, shorting both stocks and options, trading in foreign stocks and markets (including such risky countries as India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Mexico, Argentia, and Brazil), arbitraging short and long butterfly option spreads (which even most pros would not be comfortable with--I was lucky I didn't lose my ...), so I've done some pretty wild things, and I'll tell you the best secret I ever learned. It's actually very simple.<br />While we're on the subject, I should emphasize that although, as I said, I've done some pretty complex and sophisticated (not to mention risky) things, investing needn't be, and perhaps shouldn't be, rocket science. It's possible to do quite well in the market by following simple, tried and true investing strategies and without getting fancy.<br /><br />If you can afford it, put $100 a month into a good mutual fund that will accept this as a monthly contribution. Not all of them do. Often they require an automatic deduction from your bank account, since usually this doesn't meet their minimum deposit. Another way to do it would be to buy the S & P Holder's Trust or mini-index, or a mutual fund that mirrors the overall market. The Vanguard group of funds has one that mirrors the Russell 5000 index. The rationale behind this is that the yearly return over the last 75 years in the stock market is 8%. That's enough for $100 a month to become 1 million dollars in 40 years.<br /><br />However, over the last 25 years the average return (notwithstanding the last 3 years) has been 12 percent, which means the money will double even faster if that keeps up. I'm not confident that will happen, but I wouldn't be surprised if we return to the traditional 8% per year increase.<br /><br />This is the beauty of compound investing. Also, it takes advantage of a strategy known as dollar cost averaging. During the down times when stocks are lower, you money buys more stock. During the up times when stocks are more expensive and therefore more risky, your $100 buys less. This helps to average out the ups and downs in the market.<br /><br />The other coolest strategy I've found is to go long the Dow index whenever it crosses the 200-day moving average on the upside, or to short it whenever it crosses it going downward. This strategy has returned 18% over the last 50 years. But one must be comfortable on both the long and short side which most people aren't. This is a strategy for knowledgeble traders, and isn't so much an investing program.<br /><br />Anyway, those are the two best ideas I've ever come across interms of simplicity and results. If you can afford more than $100 a month, great. Also, I would recommend you just do that even if you are putting money into other stocks. That way you know you have a strategy that will work over the long term.<br /><br />Just think if everybody did this starting in their 20s or 30s. Most working people can afford $100, and some mutual funds will take as little as $50 this way. I know people who spend that on beer and cigarets in a month. Just think if they put it into this instead.<br />Anyway, just a couple of hard-earned tips from an old, battle-scarred trader and investor. Hope this helps. Good luck and happy investing!great. Also, I would recommend you just do that even if you are putting money into other stocks. That way you know you have a strategy that will work over the long term.  Just think if everybody did this starting in their 20s or 30s. Most working people can afford $100, and some mutual funds will take as little as $50 this way. I know people who spend that on beer and cigarets in a month. Just think if they put it into this instead. Anyway, just a couple of hard-earned tips from an old, battle-scarred trader and investor. Hope this helps. Good luck and happy investing!	2003-07-12
1054374:US	45193257	RUW00S82G0Z98	083082314X	808954524	Intelligent Design: The Bridge Between Science & Theology	Books	2	36	74	N	N	A few comments	Having read Behe's other book I thought I'd try this one. However, the theory of ID promises much but delivers little. It's assumptions are fallacious, and it's conclusions dubious. As others have already critiqued many of these in detail I'll just mention a few I hadn't seen discussed yet.<br />The first fallacious assumption is that certain biological mechanisms are too complex to have come about by means of evolution. Behe uses the example of blood clotting and gets a lot of mileage out of it. But complexity itself is neither a necessary nor sufficient condition for assuming intelligent design. An elegant solution that was both powerful and yet simple would be just an impressive. The Rube-Goldberg-like blood-clotting mechanism, far from being evidence of intelligent design seems more like the result of the typical evolutionary process of many false starts and dead ends, with older legacy mechanisms that weren't totally obsolete being retained while only evolving those new mechanisms that were absolutely essential. Evolution is conservative after all--again, hardly evidence of highly intelligent design.<br />The second problem is that what counts for complexity is very subjective. Although it's nice that Behe and Dembski are impressed by the complexity of their discipline, having studied both biochemistry and neurobiology, I can tell you that cell biology isn't even close to being as complex as the brain. The human brain has 14,000 major and minor brain centers and major pathways. There are 60 trillion neurons in a human brain, and each neuron is connected to between 3,000 and 100,000 other neurons. If you do the permutational mathematics, it turns out that the number of possible interconnections in a human brain is greater than the number of atoms in our galaxy. Compared to this biochemistry is simple. But I know of no neurobiologists (which is my field) who feel this is evidence of intelligent design. Thus, this sort of reasoning puts Dembski and Behe on a slippery slope, having made an arbitrary criterion the basis of their assumption.<br />However, even if we concede that biochemistry has come to the aid of Creationism here, the theory of evolution, the historical geology of the earth's past, and the astrophysics and cosmology of the origins of the universe still conflict with the Bible's interpretation of things. The Bible has provided no insight or special knowledge into any major area of inquiry. It simply says the earth and the universe came into existence as a result of God's hand. If there was anything in the Bible that looked like it came from some sort of superior being in terms of the knowledge, you'd have something, but it's all very low-level stuff, as one might expect. Why Creationists think it's superior to the scientific approach, which at least has significantly added to our knowledge of the universe in many areas, and not just biology, is beyond me.<br />A third wrong assumption of this theory is the position that it's either science or Creationism, and one has to chose between them. This is also false. Even if, by some strange happenstance, it turns out that science is complete nonsense (highly unlikely), that doesn't mean that the Bible's version is true. The Bible's depiction is no theory at all, and is totally inadequate as a theory of physical reality. It's no explanation at all.<br />A fourth problem with Creationism isn't so much a biological issue as a psychological one. These people are basically hypocrites and whiners. They are perfectly willing to accept the advances of science in many areas such as technology and medicine, while only objecting to evolution. It is hypocritical and arbitrary to accept all the benefits of science in many fields while complaining about the one science that doesn't happen to fit in with your beliefs. I'd be more impressed with Creationists if they rejected all of science and lived very primitively. At least they'd be consistent in their attitudes. But they're perfectly happy to accept science's many benefits and advantages as long as it doesn't conflict with their preconceived notions of reality.<br />There are some other problems I could mention, but I'll leave it at that since this review is already longer than I intended.<br />I'd give this book one star, but as I ultimately sympathize with the human race's need to believe in a religion of some sort I give them credit for at least making the attempt. But Behe and Dembski (and the Creationists) could have benefited from reading the great theologian, Paul Tillich's, works. Tillich understood that science and religion are inherently incompatible and so he doesn't attempt to reconcile them. Instead, Tillich points out that faith that needs to justify itself isn't true faith--and the attempt to justify it by pseudo-scientific means just lessens and demeans it. These people could have learned a lesson from Tillich, who had the intelligence to avoid such pseudo-rationality and to concentrate on the positive and transformative aspects of faith itself. Regardless of my ultimate opinion on religion Tillich's ideas are a far better basis on which to hold faith than the Creationist or Intelligent Design alternative.ctly happy to accept science's many benefits and advantages as long as it doesn't conflict with their preconceived notions of reality.<br />There are some other problems I could mention, but I'll leave it at that since this review is already longer than I intended.<br />I'd give this book one star, but as I ultimately sympathize with the human race's need to believe in a religion of some sort I give them credit for at least making the attempt. But Behe and Dembski (and the Creationists) could have benefited from reading the great theologian, Paul Tillich's, works. Tillich understood that science and religion are inherently incompatible and so he doesn't attempt to reconcile them. Instead, Tillich points out that faith that needs to justify itself isn't true faith--and the attempt to justify it by pseudo-scientific means just lessens and demeans it. These people could have learned a lesson from Tillich, who had the intelligence to avoid such pseudo-rationality and to concentrate on the positive and transformative aspects of faith itself. Regardless of my ultimate opinion on religion Tillich's ideas are a far better basis on which to hold faith than the Creationist or Intelligent Design alternative.	2003-07-10
1054928:US	45193257	R2VWRM9S077KIL	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	41	45	N	N	A few miscellaneous comments	This is a well-written, detailed, and overall very impressive biography of Franklin, very reminiscent of the recent John Adam's bio. I've read numerous articles about the great founding father over the years, and one other biography, and have read his autobiography, but nothing so extensive as this. As others have already written very detailed reviews, I just had a few miscellaneous comments.<br />The author does a fine job of showing what a Renaissance man Franklin truly was. Most people are familiar with his greatest accomplishments, such as his research into electricity and his roles in the founding of the nation, but he had many other less well-known achievements as well that were also interesting and important. He founded the Saturday Evening Post, which ran for almost 200 years until it finally died in the 70's or 80's, if I remember correctly. He emphasized practical education rather than the Latin-based curricula popular at the time in schools, and founded academies to implement his ideas. He invented bifocals and a flexible urinary catheter which helped people with kidney stones. He invented Daylight Savings Time and originated the Farmer's Almanac, which still survives today. He invented a more efficient iron furnace stove and an early odometer for measuring distance, which he attached to his carriage. He was responsible for the creation of the U.S. Post Office, and invented the lightning rod, which was the invention Franklin was most famous for during his lifetime, since it saved numerous tall structures from damage.<br />I'll mention only other of his scientific accomplishments, since it's not as well known as his work in electricity. Franklin observed that northeast storms begin in the southwest, and thought it was strange that storms travel in a direction opposite to their prevailing winds. Today we know this is because of the the way in which cold and warm fronts are affected by high and low pressure zones that form in the atmostphere, but Franklin anticipated these advances by predicting that a storm's course could be plotted. He once rode his horse through a storm and chased a whirlwind 3/4 of a mile during his research on storms. So Franklin was even something of a meteorologist. After witnessing the Montgolfier bothers balloon flight in 1783 in Paris, he predicted that ballons would be used for spy surveillance and for dropping bombs.<br />Franklin had a significant influence on my own life. Coincidently, I discovered and read Franklin's autobiography when I was 12 years old, which was how old Franklin was when he left home. I took many of his principles to heart as a young boy, and they've served me well. His values of hard work, moderation in all things, and insatiable intellectual curiosity were ones that influenced me strongly as well. In college, I studied and eventually did advanced work in both the humanities and the hard sciences, although that meant a lot of extra homework for myself, since the advanced math courses were quite difficult, since I claim no great talents in that area. But I believe it made me a better scholar and researcher, even if my real scholarly talents lay elsewhere. But if nothing else it exemplifed Franklin's emphasis on practical education and useful knowledge and skills as opposed to impractical ones.<br />Overall, a fine new addition to scholarship on Benjamin Franklin and a man whose ideas had an important influence on my own life.ticipated these advances by predicting that a storm's course could be plotted. He once rode his horse through a storm and chased a whirlwind 3/4 of a mile during his research on storms. So Franklin was even something of a meteorologist. After witnessing the Montgolfier bothers balloon flight in 1783 in Paris, he predicted that ballons would be used for spy surveillance and for dropping bombs.<br />Franklin had a significant influence on my own life. Coincidently, I discovered and read Franklin's autobiography when I was 12 years old, which was how old Franklin was when he left home. I took many of his principles to heart as a young boy, and they've served me well. His values of hard work, moderation in all things, and insatiable intellectual curiosity were ones that influenced me strongly as well. In college, I studied and eventually did advanced work in both the humanities and the hard sciences, although that meant a lot of extra homework for myself, since the advanced math courses were quite difficult, since I claim no great talents in that area. But I believe it made me a better scholar and researcher, even if my real scholarly talents lay elsewhere. But if nothing else it exemplifed Franklin's emphasis on practical education and useful knowledge and skills as opposed to impractical ones.<br />Overall, a fine new addition to scholarship on Benjamin Franklin and a man whose ideas had an important influence on my own life.	2003-07-10
1059599:US	45193257	R2AI0LW5JSOAHV	0684836599	66659027	The Emotional Brain: The Mysterious Underpinnings of Emotional Life	Books	5	28	31	N	N	A few comments	Ledoux's book gives an excellent introduction to those powerful brain areas that underlie emotion and such things as aggression, fear, anger, and so on, especially the limbic system. This is the primitive area of the brain inherited from our evolutionary ancestors where emotions and violent behavior get controlled and mediated. Above it is the cerebral cortex, where more advanced thinking processes--language, memory, analytical thought, spatial reasoning, and so on--reside. The limbic system has powerful connections to the cortex, especially the frontal and pre-frontal cortex, where more complex aspects of personality have been found to reside, such as long-term motivation and achievement drives.<br /><br />But getting back to the limbic system, the amydala, for example, is intimately involved in aggression. It was found in one study that a large percentage of death row inmates had abnormal EEG's emanating from the amydalar area, and Ledoux discusses a number of other interesting studies related to this area. In another famous case, Charles Whitman climbed up a tower with a sniper rifle at the University of Texas and killed 16 people and wounded 30 before he was killed by the police in the mid-60's. An autopsy revealed that Whitman, who had been reported by fellow students to be a quiet, easy-going student and not especially aggressive, had an amygdalar tumor.<br /><br />Well, although the darkest and most violent influences of the limbic system such as in the above cases may not always be in evidence, it's malevolent power continues to affect much of our behavior in other ways. I think this has obvious application and implications to how human society and history has turned out, and I discuss that at the end of my review.<br /><br />I wanted to discuss one other study, which wasn't in the book. Another sobering result turned up by the emminent neuroanatomist, Orlando J. Andy, is that the limbic system is actually much larger both in absolute terms and also proportionally to the rest of our brain than in any other mammalian or primate species. In other words, although we did evolve the more advanced cerebral cortex, we didn't de-emphasize or shrink the more primitive and violent limbic system as a result; in fact, we expanded on it and grew an even bigger, more complex, and more powerful one. This was completely unexpected, from a comparative neuronatomy standpoint. This is not a good thing, because as Ledoux makes clear, although we think with our cerebral cortices, our behavior is mostly molded and controlled and motivated by the more primitive limbic system areas.<br /><br />This recent functional neurological finding shows why our history is the way it is. Although we can attain to more peaceable and advanced thought and culture sometimes, it's normally too difficult for us because the more primitive, more violent areas of the brain still control almost everything we do. Because of the malevolent influence of the limbic system, it's too often the case that humans would rather live down to their lowest impulses, rather than the other way around. This neurological finding explains what history has always told us, that we're really just violent uber-apes with a thin veneer of civilization grafted on top, and not a very sturdy or secure one at that, since it gets peeled off all too often in the violent annals of history.<br /><br />So overall, a well-written, very informative, and fascinating book, considering that our recent knowledge of the limbic system has pretty dire implications for the future of civilization and for the human race.ur brain than in any other mammalian or primate species. In other words, although we did evolve the more advanced cerebral cortex, we didn't de-emphasize or shrink the more primitive and violent limbic system as a result; in fact, we expanded on it and grew an even bigger, more complex, and more powerful one. This was completely unexpected, from a comparative neuronatomy standpoint. This is not a good thing, because as Ledoux makes clear, although we think with our cerebral cortices, our behavior is mostly molded and controlled and motivated by the more primitive limbic system areas.    This recent functional neurological finding shows why our history is the way it is. Although we can attain to more peaceable and advanced thought and culture sometimes, it's normally too difficult for us because the more primitive, more violent areas of the brain still control almost everything we do. Because of the malevolent influence of the limbic system, it's too often the case that humans would rather live down to their lowest impulses, rather than the other way around. This neurological finding explains what history has always told us, that we're really just violent uber-apes with a thin veneer of civilization grafted on top, and not a very sturdy or secure one at that, since it gets peeled off all too often in the violent annals of history.    So overall, a well-written, very informative, and fascinating book, considering that our recent knowledge of the limbic system has pretty dire implications for the future of civilization and for the human race.	2003-07-06
1064937:US	45193257	R11KFW0WFPSH4H	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Entertaining and informative	For someone who reads books by scientists and writers like Roger Penrose, Simon Winchester, and Paul Davies, this might be too basic for you, but if you're not a science stud and are looking for a good introduction, this book may be for you. Bryson has written a very entertaining, easy to understand, and informative book on many important topics in modern science, ranging from cosmology to biology to geology and others.<br />I won't try to go into any of the details of these subjects, since that would take too much time, but I would like to give you something of the flavor of Bryson's writing. One thing that was fun about the book is he often includes amusing and even scandalous stories and facts about the personal lives of these scientists. He refers to Edwin Hubble, the discoverer of the expanding universe, as a \\"large mass of ego\\" (which he was). After Hubble died, his wife refused to hold a funeral for him and his body was never seen after that.<br />Just before Hubble's discovery, Bryson mentions that an astronomer \\"...with the cheerily intergalactic name of Vesto Slipher,\\" (who was actually from the Midwest) discovered the red shift of galaxies. An important amateur anatomist and paleontologist by the name of Richard Owen once claimed in a book that he was the professor of biology at the Government School of Mines. In reading the book, this came as a surprise to the famous biologist, Thomas Henry Huxley (\\"Darwin's bulldog\\"), since he was the one actually occupying the position.<br />Overall, a very well done, well written, entertaining, and even funny book about many of the most important subjects in modern science.	2003-07-01
1067781:US	45193257	R1FUB5G1LU6OXS	0521655382	596956785	The Large, the Small and the Human Mind	Books	5	22	25	N	N	With reservations, a fascinating discussion	As my background is mainly in the brain sciences, I was most interested in what Penrose had to say about consciousness and the brain in this book, so I'll concentrate mostly on the chapter that had to do with that. This is not to say I didn't enjoy the other chapters, just that I'm not as qualified to critique those as I am the one on the brain. There has been a lot of speculation in recent years about such things as computability and the brain, quantum consciousness, and so on, and I was interested to find out what Penrose might have to say about that.<br /><br />One of Penrose's major ideas in this chapter is his demonstration that consciousness, although perhaps mathematical, isn't computable, in the sense that you could program a computer to simulate it. Penrose uses the example of geometric tilings or polyominos that are deterministic in their coverage of the Euclidean plane, but that aren't computable, to show this. Since, as Penrose points out, there are plenty of mathematical concepts that aren't computable and that can't be done on a computer, but that the human mind can understand, Penrose concludes that there is something beyond computability in both pure mathematics and the human brain.<br /><br />This is interesting, and Penrose might be right about that. However, I must point out that while consciousness itself may not be computable (and I'm not really prepared to conclude this for sure at this point, because of what I'm about to say), nevertheless, many aspects of the brain's functioning have been shown to be computable, so I'd like to discuss that briefly.<br /><br />For example, sensory neurophysiology has been shown to be both quite mathematical and computational as a result of the work of a pioneering mathematician by the name of David Marr 25 years ago, whose ideas revolutionized neurobiology almost overnight, after which the field was never the same. Marr examined a number of different fundamental sensory mechanisms, and showed, for the first time, that the way in which the visual system was processing light information was consistent with the operation of certain sophisticated spatial-frequency filtering transforms that are well-known in many engineering applications. To mention just a few of his important ideas, Marr's demonstrations that retinal receptive-field geometry could be derived by Fourier transformation of spatial-frequency sensitivity data, that edges and contours could be detected by finding zero crossings in the light gradient by taking the Laplacian or second directional derivative, that excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields could be constructed from \\"DOG\\" functions (the difference of two Gaussians), and that the visual system used a two-dimensional convolution integral with a Gaussian prefilter as an operator for bandwidth optimization on the retinal light distribution, were more powerful than anything that had been seen up to that time.<br /><br />It was as if vision research suddenly acquired its own Newtonian Principia Mathematica, or perhaps General Relativity Theory, in terms of the new explanatory power Marr's theories provided. Basically, in one fell swoop sensory neurobiology also became an area of theoretical physics rather than purely biology, giving the area a rigor and elegance never before seen--an amazing achievement for a young man who died so prematurely from leukemia at the age of 36.<br /><br />The main point of all this is that all of these mechanisms are both mathematical and computable, although the way in which they're done in the brain is probably more like how a computer would use numerical analysis to solve a differential equation, rather than using the original equations in a purely analytical way themselves. Since Marr's time, there has been further progress in this area, such as the great Bela Julesz's demonstrations that the visual system can extract and compute binocular disparity cues point-by-point for depth information from abstract, non-representational pictures or textures such as random-dot stereograms, the extension of Marr's ideas about monochromatic edge detection into color edge detection, the mathematical bases of non-linear visual field distortions present in optical illusions, and many other areas.<br /><br />Furthermore, in the last few years, the nature of consciousness itself has been shown to be composed of many different separate mechanisms in the brain that are being coordinated in time in order for consciousness to occur. It simply isn't one process or central program that runs in the brain, nor is there a \\"master\\" brain center that one can point to where it can be said that consciousness resides. I'm sure the progress of this research will also have implications for ideas about the nature and computability of consciousness.<br /><br />So overall, a fascinating and enjoyable discussion about the brain and consciousness by Penrose, even if I don't completely accept one of his major ideas about it for the reasons that I discuss above.ot stereograms, the extension of Marr's ideas about monochromatic edge detection into color edge detection, the mathematical bases of non-linear visual field distortions present in optical illusions, and many other areas.    Furthermore, in the last few years, the nature of consciousness itself has been shown to be composed of many different separate mechanisms in the brain that are being coordinated in time in order for consciousness to occur. It simply isn't one process or central program that runs in the brain, nor is there a \\"master\\" brain center that one can point to where it can be said that consciousness resides. I'm sure the progress of this research will also have implications for ideas about the nature and computability of consciousness.    So overall, a fascinating and enjoyable discussion about the brain and consciousness by Penrose, even if I don't completely accept one of his major ideas about it for the reasons that I discuss above.	2003-06-29
1068114:US	45193257	RK6L4VXLDRNFC	0967666902	702959511	Be Psychic Now!	Books	2	16	70	N	N	Some comments	Although the exercises in this book are sort of cool, I have to say that there is still no real scientific evidence for telepathy. A lot of people still have basic misconceptions about how the brain works, something we've learned quite a bit about over the last 50 years. So although I'd like to believe in ESP powers myself, I have to say that everything we've learned about the brain so far contradicts that. So I'd like to discuss that a bit. Some of this is going to get a little technical, so I apologize in advance for that.<br /><br />One reason ESP powers like telepathy seem plausible to many people is the popular misconception that the brain is electrical in nature and generates electricity, and could possibly create something similar to radio-frequency waves that might be able to traverse long distances and could serve as the underlying mechanism for the remote transmission of thoughts, basically similar to radio. It seems plausible at first. If the brain generates electricity, why not radio waves, too, which could serve telepathic transmission?<br /><br />Unfortunately, this is not the case. As usual in our universe, the devil is in the scientific details. The brain really doesn't generate electricity in the same way that a generator creates electricity . Neurons don't actually conduct electricity--the voltage difference produced by a nerve cell occurs because of a self-propagating reversal of negativity along the nerve axon mediated by the movement of ions across the semi-permeable nerve membrane. This reversal of negativity propagates down the nerve to the synapse, where it becomes even more chemical in nature--again, not the stuff that telepathy is made of. But again, there is no actual conduction of electricity, and nothing like RF waves is being generated.<br /><br />There are other reasons why the RF model doesn't work very well here. Even if radio waves were being created, the impedance of a human skull is several megohms--and human nerve cells only generate about 70 millivolts of potential. Even if it were in the form of an electrical wave (which is isn't, as I've said), it wouldn't make it past the impedance barrier of the skull. The only reason EEG's and similar measuring devices work is because they have very costly amplifiers capable of amplifying the signals thousands of times so they can be detected and displayed, not to mention the fact that the pickup electrodes are resting on a shaved patch of skull--not hundreds or thousands of miles away.<br /><br />But the biggest problem with the RF theory is the bandwidth allocation problem. The human brain has 60 trillion nerve cells and 14,000 major and minor brain centers. Suppose each of them had the ability to send and receive RF type transmissions. If they all used wireless transmission it would require 14,000 separate channels to handle all the communication requirements, again, something the brain doesn't do because nerve cells have insufficient bandwidth to accommodate 1/10,000th of the total bandwidth required. The maximum frequency bandwidth of a neuron is 1000 Hz. Dividing 1000 by 14,000 gives you .07 Hz per channel--which is a physical impossibility, since you can't have fractional RF carrier waves. This is another example where you have to be very careful about applying the usual electrical engineering concepts to the brain.<br /><br />There are other problems with the mechanism behind telepathy--such as how would your brain direct it or aim it? Broadcasting it would be extremely inefficient, and as I've pointed out, your brain isn't exactly a powerhouse in this regard. Also, how would the signals be filtered and picked up from all the other RF noise on the planet, especially, since, as I've said, they would be infinitesimally faint?<br /><br />Of course, you could postulate there is some undiscovered energy the brain is using that hasn't been discovered yet, but then, there is no scientific evidence that this is the case and we're back to unsupported speculation, not rational science. If the proponents of telepathy and the like want to believe in it, that's fine, but what is the possible neural mechanism behind it?<br /><br />There are other reasons why the brain never evolved telepathy, such as the fact that it had enough trouble evolving the neural machinery for language communication, and the possibility that it would have evolved another, even more mysterious form of communication, is extremely unlikely. When the brain has already evolved one solution for something, it doesn't develop another. It's too expensive and costly, and you only have a finite amount of neurons. And I suspect the neural machinery to support something like telepathy would be far more complex and take up far more space than the neural substrates for language.<br /><br />I hope I didn't bore everyone too much with some of the technical brain details here (well, I probably did). Personally, I too would love to believe in something like telepathy. It would just be too cool if the human brain could do that. But everything we've ever learned about the brain says it just ain't so.<br /><br />As someone once said, God is a mathematician, and so the universe works along well-defined mathematical and physical laws--rather than as mystics, poets, romantics and so on--would have liked.<br /><br />I would normally give this book one star, but I give it two stars since the author is at least trying to provide something constructive,  and as I said, I still keep an open mind on the subject. But basically, people need to learn a lot more about all this so as not to be so gullible about the great-sounding but still pseudoscientific nonsense that is all too common in this area.nts of telepathy and the like want to believe in it, that's fine, but what is the possible neural mechanism behind it?    There are other reasons why the brain never evolved telepathy, such as the fact that it had enough trouble evolving the neural machinery for language communication, and the possibility that it would have evolved another, even more mysterious form of communication, is extremely unlikely. When the brain has already evolved one solution for something, it doesn't develop another. It's too expensive and costly, and you only have a finite amount of neurons. And I suspect the neural machinery to support something like telepathy would be far more complex and take up far more space than the neural substrates for language.    I hope I didn't bore everyone too much with some of the technical brain details here (well, I probably did). Personally, I too would love to believe in something like telepathy. It would just be too cool if the human brain could do that. But everything we've ever learned about the brain says it just ain't so.    As someone once said, God is a mathematician, and so the universe works along well-defined mathematical and physical laws--rather than as mystics, poets, romantics and so on--would have liked.    I would normally give this book one star, but I give it two stars since the author is at least trying to provide something constructive,  and as I said, I still keep an open mind on the subject. But basically, people need to learn a lot more about all this so as not to be so gullible about the great-sounding but still pseudoscientific nonsense that is all too common in this area.	2003-06-29
1072377:US	45193257	RNYKCATZ1H6B9	0593047907	575870179	Puppetry of the Penis: The Ancient Australian Art of Genital Origami	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Hysterically funny	This book is just the thing to bring a little genital excitement into your dull, drab, wretched life. It proves beyond a shadow of a foreskin that it is a phallacy that the penis can't be funny. The authors' hilarious exhibit of penis performance art is guaranteed to drive all your inadequacies away. My favorite is the puppet with the pop-up feature. This is one of the funniest and most entertaining books I've ever seen. I'd love to see the show if it ever comes around to my obscure and vanishing corner of America's sexual landscape.	2003-06-25
1080076:US	45193257	R2XKW62SWZWGFT	4770028016	850830152	The Book of Five Rings (The Way of the Warrior Series)	Books	5	250	268	N	N	Some comments on the philosophy	As others have already written very complete reviews, I just had a few miscellaneous comments, mostly on how to understand Musashi's seemingly paradoxical ideas about technique.<br /><br />This has become a legendary book. Written by the famous swordsman, sometimes referred to in the west as \\"The Lone Ranger of Japan,\\" Musashi claimed to have been in over 60 sword battles, triumphing each time, so it's no wonder Musashi's name has become legendary in both Japan and the west.<br /><br />The book sets out Musashi's philosophy and correct Way of the Sword. But the principles Musashi espouses are bound to sound perplexing to many people. Musashi says that the best stance is no stance, that too much strength is bad (your sword may shatter when clashing swords), and that even too much speed is bad (it may upset your balance), and that none of these are the true Way of the Sword. The best technique is, in fact, no technique.<br /><br />This sort of philosophy is bound to be more than a little confusing, so I'll see if I can clarify it a little. I'm not sure I understand Musashi either, although I've studied martial arts for many years and have read my share of eastern philosophy, but I'll give you my ideas on how I relate to them just in case you find them useful.<br /><br />Basically what Musashi is saying is that once you've learned a technique and committed it to memory and especially \\"muscle memory,\\" it becomes fixed and is no longer adaptive. Your body becomes channalized into this form or technique, which then becomes limiting, preventing you from achieving true mastery, which is the ability to adapt and flow with any of the infinite number of situations you may encounter. Fixity is therefore dysfunctional and is not the true Way of the Sword. This might be what Musashi means when he speaks of the Way of Emptiness being his way and the true Way of the Sword. In other words, his technique is no technique because it is empty of all fixed, unchangeable, and unadaptive aspects.<br /><br />There is an analogous principle in Zen. In Zen, the highest level of technique is called \\"the technique that can't be seen.\\" This doesn't mean that the technique is so fast it's invisible. It's that the technique is so advanced and subtle that its principles aren't obvious and easily seen. Musashi's ideas seem to reflect this Zen Buddhist principle also.<br /><br />Interestingly enough, this idea has some support from western research into learning and the brain. In learning theory, there is the idea of \\"stereotyping,\\" (which has nothing to do with social or racial stereotypes), where motor movements that have been learned become fixed into a certain sequence or pattern, but which is not necessarily the most efficient or effective. My learning theory instructor used the example of shaving strokes. He realized after some years that he always did his shaving strokes in the same way, after having learned how to do them, but that they weren't necessarily the best way to shave, anymore. Now that he'd been shaving for years, he \\"re-engineered\\" his shaving strokes so that they were more efficient.<br /><br />This may apply to the martial arts too. After we've learned a certain movement and achieved a certain level of skill with it, we may become complacent and never go back and question the movement again. All because we believe we've achieved a level of \\"skill.\\" I notice Paul Vunak, an important martial artist in Bruce Lee's Jeet Kune Do and the Filipino martial arts, also emphasizes the learning of principles rather than \\"technique,\\" and specifically mentions this in his seminars. The idea is that once one has learned the principle behind the technique, one can do an infinite number of those techniques, depending on the situation.<br /><br />Another interesting physiological principle that is almost as paradoxical as Musashi's ideas has been found by western science. There is a phenomenon in neuromuscular physiology known as reciprocal inhibition of flexor-extensor pairs. This means that during muscle activity the opposing muscle tension is inhibited to reduce effort on the flexing muscle. So if you're trying to do a straight punch, the tricep tenses and the bicep relaxes, thus reducing resistance. The paradoxical aspect arises from the fact that by performing a small jerk backwards in the opposite direction to the punch the outward extensor motion can be speeded up. In kinesiology they refer to this as a \\"pliometric jerk,\\" and is how basketball players jump higher. But it also has equal application to the martial arts, and I've had good results using this to get more speed and snap in my own techniques and for my students.<br /><br />Anyway, I just thought I'd offer a few suggestions from my own experience on Musashi's book, although I can't say I fully understand it either. But I hope you find them helpful in some small way in your own understanding and training.exor-extensor pairs. This means that during muscle activity the opposing muscle tension is inhibited to reduce effort on the flexing muscle. So if you're trying to do a straight punch, the tricep tenses and the bicep relaxes, thus reducing resistance. The paradoxical aspect arises from the fact that by performing a small jerk backwards in the opposite direction to the punch the outward extensor motion can be speeded up. In kinesiology they refer to this as a \\"pliometric jerk,\\" and is how basketball players jump higher. But it also has equal application to the martial arts, and I've had good results using this to get more speed and snap in my own techniques and for my students.<br /><br />Anyway, I just thought I'd offer a few suggestions from my own experience on Musashi's book, although I can't say I fully understand it either. But I hope you find them helpful in some small way in your own understanding and training.	2003-06-21
1082478:US	45193257	R2U4TSVEHZ7GS7	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A few possibly irrelevant comments	I have possibly a weird slant on Vidal's controversial and often dyspeptic views about America. If you're a fan of Oswald Spengler and other similar historian's pessimistic outlook for human civilization, then you can understand why I sometimes like Vidal's books. As someone once observed of the Renaissance artist Beccafumi, if I recall right, Vidal's dark visions of the present have the power of a premonitory dream--one that you'd rather forget, perhaps--but still powerful, nevertheless. I don't always agree with Vidal; sometimes he gets carried away with his muse and he goes a little off the deep end--but then that's an artist for you. I'm more impressed with the fin de siecle aspect of his books, whether the exact details of his ideas are correct or not.<br />They say a literary genre is dead when it starts satirizing itself. It seems to me the best interpretation of Vidal's books about America would be to ask the same question--is a culture or country dead when it starts to look like a similar satire or caricature of itself? I'm not criticizing here, really, I think America is a great country, and Americans are the greatest people in the world. It's just that things are getting a little weird in the old town tonight, if you know what I mean.<br />Most of the essays in this book were written in the 90's as the 20th century was drawing to a close. And what a century it was. One can understand Vidal's pessimism here. The 20th century saw not only the advent of the greatest scientific and medical advances, but also the greatest conflagrations of mass death and destruction in man's history--and which, ironically enough--were mostly caused or exacerbated by man's own new-found technological capabilities. With these awesome new powers at his command, mankind unflichingly, even enthusiastically, embarked on a new era of unabashed and uninhibited mass death and destruction unprecedented in human history.<br />For example, the 20th century saw mankind, using its new science and technology, uninhibitedly embark on massive wars that killed literally hundreds of millions of people.<br />It was indeed a century to remember, made all the more memorable by the millions of people caught in its deadly milieu. Millions died in World War I; 20 million more died during the Spanish Flu epidemic immediately afterward, and made worse by the weakened condition of state infrastructures and medical facilities after the war.<br />In World War II, millions more died, including 20 million dead in Russia alone either directly from war casualties or indirectly through starvation, disease, and privation. Six million Jews, 1 million Russians--and even a quarter million Gypsies--were rounded up and systematically exterminated in the death camps (\\"better living through chemistry\\"), and tens of millions more died of starvation in India because the price of rice went through the roof.<br />Anyway, not to say the 20th century was all bad and was just a conflagration of mass death and destruction, but sometimes it seems that way. But seriously, is this how we want to run our world? This is what the most advanced and evolved species on the planet is all about?<br />Oh well, I'm not sure what can be done about this. Maybe nothing. Maybe all one can do, as we bask in the increasingly polluted twilight of our ever-sickening planet and civilization, is to write dyspeptic books about it like Vidal and vent one's frustration that way--and hope for a better future for mankind and our planet, who certainly deserve better than what they have gotten so far.ce and technology, uninhibitedly embark on massive wars that killed literally hundreds of millions of people.<br />It was indeed a century to remember, made all the more memorable by the millions of people caught in its deadly milieu. Millions died in World War I; 20 million more died during the Spanish Flu epidemic immediately afterward, and made worse by the weakened condition of state infrastructures and medical facilities after the war.<br />In World War II, millions more died, including 20 million dead in Russia alone either directly from war casualties or indirectly through starvation, disease, and privation. Six million Jews, 1 million Russians--and even a quarter million Gypsies--were rounded up and systematically exterminated in the death camps (\\"better living through chemistry\\"), and tens of millions more died of starvation in India because the price of rice went through the roof.<br />Anyway, not to say the 20th century was all bad and was just a conflagration of mass death and destruction, but sometimes it seems that way. But seriously, is this how we want to run our world? This is what the most advanced and evolved species on the planet is all about?<br />Oh well, I'm not sure what can be done about this. Maybe nothing. Maybe all one can do, as we bask in the increasingly polluted twilight of our ever-sickening planet and civilization, is to write dyspeptic books about it like Vidal and vent one's frustration that way--and hope for a better future for mankind and our planet, who certainly deserve better than what they have gotten so far.	2003-06-19
1082519:US	45193257	RV5BPMPEKT678	0865680655	4991088	The Complete Guide to Kung Fu Fighting Styles	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent intro to subject	A few readers have criticized this book for not being more comprehensive and for perhaps dealing more with kung-fu styles outside of China, but it's still a good introduction for the non-specialist in kung-fu. Some important styles have been left out, or are mentioned only in passing, such as some of the main animal styles such as snake, dragon, black tiger style, and so on, but they still get some attention in the discussions of some of the styles that incorporate their movements, such as Hung Gar and praying mantis. And the author does do a fine job discussing not just praying mantis, but at least five different praying mantis styles (northern praying mantis, 7-star praying mantis, 6-harmony praying mantis, tai mantis, and tai chi praying mantis (also known as the mayflower mantis style), and five monkey kung-fu styles.<br />I would have also liked some mention about which styles were important for later developments in karate. For example, a fusion of several styles from Fukien province, dragon, white crane, and tiger, became the basis of such famous Okinawan karate styles as Uechi-ryu. Others, such as Shorin-ryu, incorporate white crane influences and forms. But again, this is not a big deal and is perhaps not appropriate for an intro book.<br />Anyway, despite a few oversights, the book's strengths by far outweigh its shortcomings. Hollander writes with a nice style and also does a good job with much of the history. So overall, still a fine book on the subject.	2003-06-19
1084459:US	45193257	R3F33E53D87SQE	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Don't drop it on your nuts	Whatever one may think of GR as a novel, there is no doubt about the richness, range, and depth of Pychon's intellect and his themes and ideas. GR is clearly a book that challenges the reader on many levels, and the novel's themes and meanings also work on many levels.<br />People have complained about the difficulty of the book. To me there are relative degrees of difficulty, and there's a big difference between something that's merely esoteric or recondite, because one doesn't understand the vocabulary, and something that's really intellectually difficult to understand--like quantum physics. For example, take Pynchon's large vocabulary and his allusions to various mythic but obscure Qabbalistic, Celtic, and Christian facts and ideas. A good dictionary will fix the first problem, and a good encyclopedia of world myths and religion will fix the second problem, of which I've seen at least a couple on sale at local bookstores recently.<br />But getting back to GR, Pynchon's writing style is either the benefactor or perhaps victim of this richness, and I did find his style somewhat ponderous occasionally, and his long sentences and long-winded descriptions of things to be a bit labored and hyperborean at times. Someone once said the reason why no-one reads John Milton except English majors and professors is because no-one has the patience for Miltonian periods anymore. Since both authors often write sentences that go on for a more like a paragraph or even a bigger portion of a page, the same could be said of Pynchon. You can find sentences with exclamation points in the middle, sentences with multiple dashes and ellipses, and multiple sentence fragments that refer to other sentence fragments. One could almost say that his style is more about punctuation and syntax than semantics. But in Pynchon's defense I'll say that from a linguistic standpoint, his ratio of modifiers to non-modifiers, of adverbs and adjectives to nouns and verbs, is probably higher than most writers, and there is a certain technical and perhaps linguistic validity and aesthetic charm in that.<br />In addition to the obvious oddities of his punctuation and syntax, there is Pynchon's obsession with English and with what I call his \\"language games,\\" although perhaps not in the sense in which the modern philosopher Wittgenstein meant, but I'll have more to say on that shortly. Pynchon delights in the use of the English language, with all its expressive capabilities-its rhythms, harmonies, dissonances--and many opportunities for word-play, esoteric vocabulary, arcane references and allusions, and imaginative and even bizarre figures of speech. He even brings in foreign phrases and even calculus equations occasionally.<br />Pynchon is particularly adept at the creative use of metaphor, which many analytical rhetoricians regard as a sign of an especially accomplished writer.  As Lois Shawver, a philosopher at the University of Calgary, Canada, points out about Wittgenstein's theory of word games, \\"Words seem to be passed from primary or primitive uses of language into this more metaphorical or parasitic use of language with little awareness on our part. These hidden metaphors lead us into language games that we have learned in other contexts without our awareness by a process that the post moderns call \\"metaphorical structuring.\\" \\" She goes on to say, \\"The enormity of this observation is only striking when one's attention is awakened to the wealth of implicit metaphors that fill our ordinary speech.\\" All this is just by way of saying that metaphor is perhaps the ultimate trope or figure of speech of the linguistic universe, and that Pynchon himself seems to be intuitively or explicitly aware of that fact, since he is a master of it.<br />I do think he goes a little too far with all the cutesy and weird names, and I don't think this really adds much to the novel. Also, apropos of Pynchon's long-winded descriptions and obsession with observing the most minute details,one thing that separates a great author from a lesser one is the ability to pick and choose the most salient and most telling details without having to inundate the reader with extraneous trivia. This is an important part of writing craftsmanship. Theodore Dreiser comes to mind in this regard, and as a result, it can be said of Dreiser that he is a great author but a lesser writer. The same may apply to Pynchon. If I may paraphrase something the great art historian, G.C. Argan, observed about van Eyck's oil paintings but that I think applies equally well to Pynchon, even nature is not so capillary, meticulous, and absurd as Pynchon's prodigious eye sees it.<br />Since the novel is a storytelling art and medium, I think the language should promote the telling of the story and therefore be mostly perspicuous and transparent rather than opaque in terms of facilitating such telling. Pynchon's language tends more toward the opaque and overtly self-conscious end of the spectrum, but I didn't even mind that, since I can get into word games and philological esoterica as much as anyone. But Pynchon seems more concerned with providing an intellectual smorgasbord for the reader rather than a real story in the traditional sense.<br />That, too, is fine, except one needs to exercise some measure of control and discipline over the process. And I'm not referring to the problem of the intellectual odyssey becoming nothing more than a vain and self-serving display of erudition, a complaint which a number of reviewers here have levied against Pynchon. I'm referring, rather, to the need to maintain some kind of structure and minimal architectonic basis lest the novel partly or completely disintegrate because of the chaotic intellectual and literary adventurism of its author.<br />That having been said, overall, I found Pynchon's imaginative and eclectic mix, or perhaps alchemical witches brew, of historical, paranoid, erotic, scientific, philological, philosophical, and fantastic themes entertaining and imaginative, and at the very least, educational. So I'll go on record by saying that despite the several issues I discuss above, I thought this was a unique if not brilliant book. If I can indulge in a somewhat Pynchonesque and risque metaphor myself, I would describe Pynchon's at times cerebral, at times low-brow, and at other times, pornographic magnum opus, as basically the intellectual foresk_n on the flaccid p_nis of the present literary universe., one thing that separates a great author from a lesser one is the ability to pick and choose the most salient and most telling details without having to inundate the reader with extraneous trivia. This is an important part of writing craftsmanship. Theodore Dreiser comes to mind in this regard, and as a result, it can be said of Dreiser that he is a great author but a lesser writer. The same may apply to Pynchon. If I may paraphrase something the great art historian, G.C. Argan, observed about van Eyck's oil paintings but that I think applies equally well to Pynchon, even nature is not so capillary, meticulous, and absurd as Pynchon's prodigious eye sees it.<br />Since the novel is a storytelling art and medium, I think the language should promote the telling of the story and therefore be mostly perspicuous and transparent rather than opaque in terms of facilitating such telling. Pynchon's language tends more toward the opaque and overtly self-conscious end of the spectrum, but I didn't even mind that, since I can get into word games and philological esoterica as much as anyone. But Pynchon seems more concerned with providing an intellectual smorgasbord for the reader rather than a real story in the traditional sense.<br />That, too, is fine, except one needs to exercise some measure of control and discipline over the process. And I'm not referring to the problem of the intellectual odyssey becoming nothing more than a vain and self-serving display of erudition, a complaint which a number of reviewers here have levied against Pynchon. I'm referring, rather, to the need to maintain some kind of structure and minimal architectonic basis lest the novel partly or completely disintegrate because of the chaotic intellectual and literary adventurism of its author.<br />That having been said, overall, I found Pynchon's imaginative and eclectic mix, or perhaps alchemical witches brew, of historical, paranoid, erotic, scientific, philological, philosophical, and fantastic themes entertaining and imaginative, and at the very least, educational. So I'll go on record by saying that despite the several issues I discuss above, I thought this was a unique if not brilliant book. If I can indulge in a somewhat Pynchonesque and risque metaphor myself, I would describe Pynchon's at times cerebral, at times low-brow, and at other times, pornographic magnum opus, as basically the intellectual foresk_n on the flaccid p_nis of the present literary universe.	2003-06-17
1085595:US	45193257	R30D48NH0ZVQP5	0553275593	509669592	Zen in the Martial Arts	Books	5	65	68	N	N	Great intro to Zen--in real life as well as martial arts	First I'd like to address a couple of criticisms that I read here that this book is rather superficial and doesn't get into Zen concepts in depth. That's true, this book is really only an intro to Zen--if you're already knowledgeable then this book will probably be too basic. However, for the beginner there is no better place to start, and as someone else here observed, the quotes from Bruce Lee are almost worth the price of the book by themselves.<br />Joe Hyams started his karate training back in 1952 with Ed Parker--a full ten years or more before the craze got started in America. He had the opportunity to train with such greats as Bruce Lee, Bong Soo Han, Ed Parker, and Jim Lau from the very beginning. Joe encountered many trials and tribulations, frustrations, and disappointments during his training, but he never gave up. One reason is he often had the opportunity to discuss his problems with the many great teachers he trained under, and they often offered their wisdom and insights to help him through the difficult times. He took that wealth of personal experience and knowledge and put it all into this little book.<br />Hyams gives a very clear, concise, and easy to understand introduction to Zen in the martial arts. The discussions are often illustrated and liberally peppered with fun anecdotes from his personal experiences with different masters, making this almost a personal journey through the dojos and minds of some of the most famous martial artists of our time. Hyams writes very well (he was a famous Hollywood screenwriter) and so rather than another dry, obscure, Zen philosophy tome, the book sounds more like an intimate conversation with a friend over a glass of wine and dinner. It sounds like he's personally talking right to you.<br />Hyams touches on so many concepts that I won't try to discuss them much here. But I will mention probably the most important one--which is persistence. Hyams points out that it often isn't the most talented and gifted student that achieves the most in the martial arts--since they often quit the first time they encounter a serious difficulty--since they're so used to everything coming so easy. Rather, it's the person who often has very little going for him physically, and has the patience and perseverance to stick it through to the end.<br />I'll mention just one other important principle. This relates to the Zen idea of living in the moment, especially when training, but also in everything else one does in life. Don't allow other concerns, however pressing or important, to weigh on your mind and distract you when you're training. Concentrate on living in the present moment and you'll make the most of your training--and of all the other activities in your life. Someone who's always worried about their other concerns can't truly live in the present, and therefore will never truly enjoy or make the most of whatever activity they're engaged in. Part of their mind is always somewhere else. Strive to always live in the now, in the present moment.<br />Interestingly enough, this idea has been confirmed by modern psychological research. If you have concerns that worry you, don't allow them to bother you to the point where you're thinking about them all the time. The best way to deal with this, it's been found, is to set aside some time each day--they recommend 10, 15, or 20 minutes at most--where, if you need to--go ahead and worry yourself sick about it. Then put it out of your mind and enjoy the rest of your day. Another important thing you can do during this time is to not just worry about everything but to put some constructive thought into how to better deal with your problems. Sometimes you won't have a good idea about how to do that for a while, for days, maybe weeks, but don't let that get you down. Remember the other principle of persistence I mentioned earlier. Stick it through to the end.<br />Realistically, life is never as bad as it seems to us during our darkest and most depressed moments--nor as wonderful as it seems during our happiest, most ecstatic moments. It's somewhere in between. The point here is that one should also cultivate the proper attitude--since that's often the only thing one has total control over in one's life. If you're the sort of person for whom even little things get you down--which is more of us than we would like to admit--then strive to be more objective. The little things can't really hurt you. They're just annoying psychologically because they bruise our egos a little bit. Save your emotional energy for the really big problems in your life, instead--because there will be more than enough of those. Cultivate a positive, upbeat attitude so that the little things are practically beneath your notice. Let them slide off you like water off a duck's back. This is also another important Zen principle--that too much ego impedes our progress in the martial arts--and our path through life as well.<br />Well, I've gone on longer than I intended, but this book is so chock full of useful little tidbits of advice that I got a little carried away. So I'll just conclude by reiterating that Hyams has written a great little introduction to Zen concepts as applied to the martial arts. But perhaps even more important is that they can be applied beneficially to every other area of your life.essed moments--nor as wonderful as it seems during our happiest, most ecstatic moments. It's somewhere in between. The point here is that one should also cultivate the proper attitude--since that's often the only thing one has total control over in one's life. If you're the sort of person for whom even little things get you down--which is more of us than we would like to admit--then strive to be more objective. The little things can't really hurt you. They're just annoying psychologically because they bruise our egos a little bit. Save your emotional energy for the really big problems in your life, instead--because there will be more than enough of those. Cultivate a positive, upbeat attitude so that the little things are practically beneath your notice. Let them slide off you like water off a duck's back. This is also another important Zen principle--that too much ego impedes our progress in the martial arts--and our path through life as well.<br />Well, I've gone on longer than I intended, but this book is so chock full of useful little tidbits of advice that I got a little carried away. So I'll just conclude by reiterating that Hyams has written a great little introduction to Zen concepts as applied to the martial arts. But perhaps even more important is that they can be applied beneficially to every other area of your life.	2003-06-17
1085728:US	45193257	RUKT7YLGWV15I	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still a true classic	This classic was voted one of the top 10 American children's books of the last 200 years by the Children's Literature Association. Although modern readers may find it a little dated in some ways and the pacing a little slow, it's still an absorbing and beautiful story about how a resourceful Indian girl survives alone on an island off the California coast for 18 years.<br />The story is a lot like Robinson Crusoe only told from the girl's point of view, but that's okay. (Coincidently Crusoe was rescued after 17 years on his island, if I remember correctly).<br />The book is still worth reading today by young readers and O'Dell does a great job of telling this resourceful young woman's story. The story was inspired by true events, when the girl's people were evacuated from the island of Ghalas-At and she jumped ship to stay behind with her abandoned brother (who tragically dies shortly thereafter, leaving, Karana, the girl, all alone).<br />Overall, still a great classic and worth your child's time and effort.	2003-06-17
1086070:US	45193257	R1XJCINHV3SC1O	0440411467	548711598	The Black Pearl  (Newberry Honor Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another great young reader's book by O'Dell	Like Island of the Blue Dolphins, this is also a very well written book. It obviously borrows heavily from Steinbeck's The Pearl--even the scene with the crooked pearl dealers is very similar--but I didn't mind that very much. Actually, I liked this book even better than the Steinbeck one. :-) O'Dell does a fine job with the characters of 16-year old Ramon, his father, and the people in the town, and in creating the culture of the seaside fishing village in the book. Ramon's adventure with the Devil-Ray is suspenseful, and the enormous pearl has unforeseen consequences for the entire town. Overall a fine book for young readers.	2003-06-16
1087291:US	45193257	RO9HLJ9A08ATU	0964997614	499627360	The Tao of Yiquan: The Method of Awareness in the Martial Arts	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A few comments	As a student and teacher of both Chinese and Japanese martial arts for many years I found this book useful and interesting, although I agree that the author could have spent more time discussing how to achieve and cultivate internal energy in addition to the discussion of the more ethereal spiritual aspects of the art. In that regard I agree with Quinn that Yi Quan's superior combative aspect is what has created its increasing popularity, and the author could have delved more into that, but then there are also a lot of other books out there, such as those by Robert W. Smith and others, that already show the physical and mechanical aspects of the art. Obviously the author's intention was to produce a more advanced book discussing the philosophical principles as well, and I think he deserves some credit for that.<br />Overall, then, a good book, especially in regard to Yi Quan's history and its many technical, philosophical aspects, but if you want more of a how-to book you'll need to look elsewhere, or better yet, get some of the excellent videos that are now available on the internal boxing styles.	2003-06-15
1087566:US	45193257	R46FI7V8TAMVC	0834802368	983972828	Japanese Swordsmanship: Technique And Practice	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Important classic	Although a little outdated as the book now has only 10 of the 12 new Setei kata, which were added after the book was published, this is still an essential classic on the history and practice of Iaido. If you need info on the katas and practical techniques, however, there are better sources these days than a book--such as the many videos that are often available used for less than the price of this book new--so if it's that's what you're interested in, I would refer you to those. However, for an in-depth study of the history of the Japanese sword, the different styles and periods of craftsmanship and how they differ, the practical aspects of sword making, and many of the other cultural aspects surrounding the practice of the Japanese sword, and so on, Draeger's book is still the best one I know out there.<br /><br />I did have one other comment to make. Draeger comments that, especially since WWII, as a result of various changes in the teaching curriculum of Iaido it has become a more formalized, aesthetic art and has lost touch with the original combative, samurai aspect of the art. While I certainly respect Draeger, and his redoubtable skill, knowledge, and opinions in many arts, I would point out that this problem isn't unique to Iaido. It's a problem with all the martial and combative arts of both the east and west.<br /><br />For example, students of karate have the same problem. A student, even a skilled black belt, can do all the point sparring he wants, but unless he actually puts on the full-contact gear and risks getting his head bashed in, he isn't subjecting himself to the ultimate combative aspect of his art, either. So the problem isn't unique to Iaido. So although I respect Draeger and understand that his concern is genuine and arises from that fact that he's a sincere, hard-nosed traditionalist on this issue, I would point out that it's not really practical to do this anymore.<br /><br />The samurai of old practiced and trained in the discipline of Iaido in the dojo because their lives depended on it, and then their skills were ultimately tested and forged on the crucible of the battlefield and in individual duels and combat. As I said, this is no longer the case and is no longer practical, either. So although I might agree with Draeger that perhaps something has been lost, nevertheless, unless one is proposing to recreate much more realistic but impractical sparring practices I don't see any remedy for the situation.<br /><br />So overall, a fine book on learning about this fascinating art.their lives depended on it, and then their skills were ultimately tested and forged on the crucible of the battlefield and in individual duels and combat. As I said, this is no longer the case and is no longer practical, either. So although I might agree with Draeger that perhaps something has been lost, nevertheless, unless one is proposing to recreate much more realistic but impractical sparring practices I don't see any remedy for the situation.    So overall, a fine book on learning about this fascinating art.	2003-06-15
1087878:US	45193257	ROWW69HRU1A1H	0804831327	957269259	Jeet Kune Do: Bruce Lee's Commentaries on the Martial Way (Bruce Lee Library)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Very detailed and thorough	Speaking as a student and teacher of martial arts myself for almost 40 years, this is a very detailed and thorough discussion of Lee's ideas. There's so much detail here that one problem is organizing it successfully so it can be presented in a coherent and structured way, but Little does an excellent job of that too. This book will be of interest too all those interested in Lee and his ideas on martial arts.<br />I won't try to go into too many of Lee's ideas about fighting, which wouldn't be practical in such a short review, anyway, but I would like to make one comment. One thing you'll notice in this book is that Lee spends a lot of time discussing strategy and principles rather than techniques. He comes back again and again to such notions as timing, distance, interval, gauging your opponent, knowing when and how to attack, creating your own openings, etc., rather than discussing the technical details of technique per se. This is because the book pretty much assumes you've already achieved the necessary physical and mechanical skills and attributes--speed, power, coordination, and so--and are looking for how to progress from there, having already built a solid foundation. This book will help you do that by focusing on the more advanced principles and tactics.	2003-06-15
1087976:US	45193257	R8AVV4O97N5C2	0865682062	233098031	Karambit: Exotic Weapon of the Indonesian Archipelago	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Excellent book on this weapon	Mr. Tarani has trained in Indonesian Silat and is one of the instructors in edged weapons tactics at the famous Gunsite training academy in Arizona, and has served as an instructor and consultant on edged weapons to many law enforcement and government agencies. He is certainly a fine, qualified instructor and he gives an excellent discussion on the history and practical use of this weapon in this book.<br /><br />I only have one problem with a book like this. Obviously one book can't cover everything important on knife-fighting, but I had one comment about this, relating to primarily slashing weapons, which is what this book is about.<br /><br />Although the Karambit is certainly an effective weapon, like all weapons it has its advantages and limitations. In this case, since it's a slashing weapon mainly, requiring curved, rounded strokes that travel in an arc rather than a straight line, it's inherently slower than using faster, straight strikes. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line, so the fastest way to traverse the distance isn't an arc.<br /><br />Mr. Tarani does point out that one advantage of the Karambit is that since you can reverse the stroke each strike affords two opportunities to slash--but nevertheless, it still won't be as fast as a straight strike.<br /><br />And by \\"straight\\" I'm not talking about the powerful straight thrusts such as seen in the classical karate punch--I'm referring more to what I call a \\"ballistic thrust,\\" which is more like a flast flicking strike and which has more speed than power.<br /><br />An opponent skilled in this type of movement will have an edge in a knife-fight with an opponent with a Karambit or similar curved weapon. I've seen this many times in tests with my own students and black belts--I found they could reach my hand, arm, or body once they were skilled in these techniques (which can take a few years to learn) more easily than I could using slashing strikes. Of course, they could use slashing strikes too if the opportunity arose. Paul Vunak, another respected instructor in knife-fighting, also makes this point in his seminars, although he approaches it from the standpoint of the Filipino rather than Indonesian martial arts--which is fine, too.<br /><br />That having been said, this is an excellent book on the use of the Karambit weapon. If one sees this method as an important addition to one's existing knife-fighting skills and repertory, that would be the best use of this book and technique.e. Paul Vunak, another respected instructor in knife-fighting, also makes this point in his seminars, although he approaches it from the standpoint of the Filipino rather than Indonesian martial arts--which is fine, too.    That having been said, this is an excellent book on the use of the Karambit weapon. If one sees this method as an important addition to one's existing knife-fighting skills and repertory, that would be the best use of this book and technique.	2003-06-15
1088045:US	45193257	RFJ8SCZHAWGSO	0804820880	148650038	Filipino Martial Culture (Martial Culture Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent introduction to FMA	Very well written, thoroughly researched, and detailed book on the Filipino martial arts, along with separate sections covering 18 different masters. These cover some of my favorite people, such as Rey Galang of Sagasa and Hagibis, Christopher Ricketts of Sagasa and Kali Illustrisimo, Angel Cabales of Escrima, Edgar Sulite of Lameco Escrima, and Florendo Visitacion of Vee Arnis Jutsu, along with many others.<br />The sections on the history and development of the FMA over the last several hundred years are interesting and informative. The material on the 18 masters discusses their background and the details of their arts such as type of weapons used, fighting techniques and strategies, philosophies, and so on. Overall an excellent book on FMA that will no doubt become the standard by which the others will be measured.<br />By the way, Rey Galang does a very nice job of presenting the Lingua de Fuego (Tongue of Fire) knife-fighting kata, as well as breaking out the individual applications, in the fist volume of the Kali Illustrisimo videos that Ricketts and Galang have put out. I can recommend this quality video series by Ricketts and Galang also for anyone wanting more information on this art.	2003-06-15
1095425:US	45193257	R1S0MU7KCLZ13G	0375507345	366189909	No Way to Treat a First Lady	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another funny book by Buckley	Buckley has written seven or eight books at this point, and this is the fourth I've read by him, and it's also a very funny book. Sometimes an author can produce a winning book by combining two equally wayward ideas, even if they've been done separately before, and that's what Buckley has done here. It's sort of like what was done with the book and subsequently for the movie, \\"The English Patient,\\" which was sort of a combination of \\"The Elephant Man\\" and \\"Lawrence of Arabia,\\" although that was obviously a serious story and Buckley's book is satire. However, this wacky union of circumstances works well and as a result Buckley has written another very funny book.<br />The book is obviously inspired by the combination of the Clinton Presidency, with its sex scandals, and the O.J. Simpson \\"Trial of the Century.\\" The president dies under suspicious circumstances, and the President's wife get arrested, presumably for finally murdering him for his infidelities. The book mostly deals with the legal antics involved in the \\"Trial of Millenium,\\" as the country's greatest, not to mention the most shameless and flamboyant, attorney, pulls out every trick in the book to try to get the first lady off--in more ways than one. Buckley builds the courtroom and outside-the-courtroom dramas up to a very funny and satisfying climax.<br />I think Buckley is the funniest observer and writer I've seen yet on the Washington political scene. If you liked his Little Green Men and Thank You for Smoking, two of the funniest books I've read in the humour and satire genre, you'll like this book too, and I'd actually give it 4.5 stars if I could.	2003-06-09
1098467:US	45193257	R2BN6SGM4SG2Y7	1579550088	20378952	A New Kind of Science	Books	4	18	27	N	N	A few comments	As others here have already commented better than I could on the application of Wolfram's ideas to other sciences, I thought I would limit my comments to one area--the brain sciences. This will require my discussing some technical details of neurobiology a little bit, so I apologize in advance for that, and hope that you will bear with me.<br />Although Wolfram's new magnum opus is controversial and has gotten very mixed reviews, as I said, I was hoping his ideas might be useful in a very specific area of biology myself, neurophysiology, which is where my background mostly is. Wolfram's ideas about cellular automata may have significant potential in the brain sciences area. In fact, Wolfram's idea isn't so different from one that I had about 20 years ago. But Wolfram is a lot better at things like math and cellular automata than I am, so I'm happy he ended up doing all the work instead of me!<br />But getting on to the specifics, sensory neurophysiology has been shown to be quite mathematical as a result of the work of a pioneering mathematician by the name of David Marr 25 years ago, whose ideas revolutionized neurobiology almost overnight, after which the field was never the same. To mention just a few of his important ideas, Marr's demonstrations that retinal receptive-field geometry could be derived by Fourier transformation of spatial frequency sensitivity data, that edges and contours could be detected by finding zero crossings in the light gradient by taking the Laplacian or second directional derivative, that excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields could be constructed from \\"DOG\\" functions (the difference of two Gaussians), and that the visual system used a two-dimensional convolution integral with a Gaussian prefilter as an operator for bandwidth optimation on the retinal light distribution, were more powerful than anything that had been seen up to that time.<br />It was as if vision research suddenly acquired its own Newtonian Principia Mathematica, or perhaps General Relativity Theory, in terms of the new explanatory power Marr's theories provided. Basically, in one fell sensory neurobiology also became an area of theoretical physics rather than purely biology, giving the area a rigor and elegance never before seen--an amazing achievement for a young man who died so prematurely from leukemia at the age of 36.<br />But getting back to Wolfram's book, since most of the mechanisms for information processing in the brain ultimately depend on cell assemblies or individual circuits of few to many neurons, the analogy between cellular automata and neural circuits is an interesting and possibly valid one. Although we don't have a very good idea about more complex kinds of circuits in the brain, except in very broad, functional terms such as the kinds of questions and answers cognitive neuroscience can frame and provide, many of them may operate according to the principles of cellular automata.<br />So although it may be too early to conclude Wolfram's ideas apply to all complex phenomena, I'm hopeful that at least some complex biological systems, especially those relating to human psychobiology, such as limic system mechanisms, which don't seem very amenable to mathematical analyses of the type that have worked so well in sensory neurophysiology, can be explained by simple, rule-based programs of the sort Wolfram has described, in addition to the neural circuits themselves.<br />The difficulty in accounting for more complex behavior comes as no surprise, since although the brain's \\"hardware\\" ultimately must function according to well-understood neurophysiological and biophysical mechanisms (as in the case of nerve conduction) the brain's \\"wetware\\" or \\"software\\" is obviously very different and can operate according to very different principles, some of which may be explained by Wolfram's ideas, although it's possible that the more biophysical properties of neural networks themselves may be amenable to cellular analysis.<br />In any case, Wolfram has provided at the very least a heuristic impetus further research in the brain area, and I hope, some powerful explanations as well. Despite the bold claims Wolfram makes for his ideas, which challenge traditional approaches, Wolfram's ideas need to be taken seriously and fairly evaluated. In some cases, they may represent a better alternative for understanding at least complex neural systems than purely mathematically-based ones.<br />I had one final comment. In our universe, the devil seems to be in the details, so no doubt some of Wolfram's rules will turn out to applicable and useful in the real world (such as Rule 30), and others won't. This is to be expected. As in the case of theoretical physics, one can write down many differential equations that are mathematically correct; the problem is determining which ones apply to our actual universe. I'm sure it won't be any different with Wolfram's Rules, but, as with Maxwell's field equations, the Schrodinger equation, and Einstein's famous E=MC^2, the ones that do work will result in major advances in the understanding of our universe.<br />Looking to the future, perhaps the next revolution will be the synthesis of mathematical explanations with cellular automata. But we may need to wait for another once-in-a generation-genius like Marr or Wolfram to get that. In the meantime, research in cellular automata will no doubt continue, and I'm sure we'll soon see whether Wolfram's ideas are valid or not for at least some complex systems.br />In any case, Wolfram has provided at the very least a heuristic impetus further research in the brain area, and I hope, some powerful explanations as well. Despite the bold claims Wolfram makes for his ideas, which challenge traditional approaches, Wolfram's ideas need to be taken seriously and fairly evaluated. In some cases, they may represent a better alternative for understanding at least complex neural systems than purely mathematically-based ones.<br />I had one final comment. In our universe, the devil seems to be in the details, so no doubt some of Wolfram's rules will turn out to applicable and useful in the real world (such as Rule 30), and others won't. This is to be expected. As in the case of theoretical physics, one can write down many differential equations that are mathematically correct; the problem is determining which ones apply to our actual universe. I'm sure it won't be any different with Wolfram's Rules, but, as with Maxwell's field equations, the Schrodinger equation, and Einstein's famous E=MC^2, the ones that do work will result in major advances in the understanding of our universe.<br />Looking to the future, perhaps the next revolution will be the synthesis of mathematical explanations with cellular automata. But we may need to wait for another once-in-a generation-genius like Marr or Wolfram to get that. In the meantime, research in cellular automata will no doubt continue, and I'm sure we'll soon see whether Wolfram's ideas are valid or not for at least some complex systems.	2003-06-06
1099093:US	45193257	R2FI7256VFWSQD	0201120658	381362368	Who Got Einstein's Office? Eccentricity And Genius At The Institute For Advanced Study	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very entertaining history	I'm surprised I didn't know about this book sooner. It was published in 1988 and definitely deserves to be better known.<br />This is one of the more enjoyable books on the history of science I've read. It details the history of the Princeton Institute for Advanced study through the lives and careers of some of its most famous scions. There are chapters on Einstein, Kurt Goedel, Oppenheimer, John von Neumann (the inventer of the electronic computer), and Ed Witten, the author of the string theory, and many others.<br />The book is full of amusing and fascinating details and stories about the many famous and often eccentric scientists and mathematicians who worked in its cloistered halls. For example, referring to Einstein's eventual obsession about disproving the uncertainty aspect of quantum mechanics, Oppenheimer once said, \\"Einstein is cuckoo.\\" Oppenheimer once learned Greek so that he could read classic literature in the original. Upon learning that several of his fellow scientists were meeting to discuss Italian literature, he learned enough of it in a month to start reading the books. Godel developed a paranoid delusion and spent his last months refusing any food, eventually starving himself to death, having become convinced that his doctors were trying to poison him.<br />Before Einstein came to the U.S., there was a movement in Germany against \\"Jewish physics.\\" One hundred supposed scientists joined this group and once held an anti-Einstein meeting at a large auditorium, with thousands of people in attendence. Einstein himself went to the event just to see what the whole thing was about, and finding out of course that their objections were nonsense and \\"absurd,\\" as Einstein said. But it was at that point that Einstein finally decided things were getting a little too overheated in the Fatherland and he finally left for the states--their loss and our gain.<br />Another funny thing about Einstein was just how crazy the public went over him. They named everything from their children to their boats after him. One time Einstein visited the famous biologist J.B.S. Haldane in England, and his daughter fainted dead away at the sight of him.<br />The public may not have really understood much about Einstein's new ideas--light having weight, space actually being curved, and so on--but all that mattered was that Einstein understood it. He was the prophet of a new world order and would revolutionize our understanding of reality with his unique genius, and the public was practically giddy as a schoolgirl about Einstein as a result.<br />There are many other interesting and funny stories about the lives of these emminent thinkers in the book, but I'll leave the rest for you to read for yourself. This book is definitely worth your time and money.ng from their children to their boats after him. One time Einstein visited the famous biologist J.B.S. Haldane in England, and his daughter fainted dead away at the sight of him.<br />The public may not have really understood much about Einstein's new ideas--light having weight, space actually being curved, and so on--but all that mattered was that Einstein understood it. He was the prophet of a new world order and would revolutionize our understanding of reality with his unique genius, and the public was practically giddy as a schoolgirl about Einstein as a result.<br />There are many other interesting and funny stories about the lives of these emminent thinkers in the book, but I'll leave the rest for you to read for yourself. This book is definitely worth your time and money.	2003-06-05
1100614:US	45193257	R3FLVSJI2SXPT3	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	3	71	121	N	N	A few problems--and then some	If this was just a book on molecular biology it would be a well-written book. I learned some things from it, and Behe knows the subject better than I do (my background is more in neurobiology), and he writes well and interestingly, when he sticks to that subject.<br />However, the book has so many other problems that it's difficult to know where to start, but I'll try. As others have already pointed out Behe's lack of expertise in evolution and even some errors in biochemistry, I'll stick to other things.<br />The first problem is his argument from design. There are actually several problems with this.<br />1. First, Behe misrepresents the scientists' attitude. They are not, as Behe writes, hiding in fear that the massive evidence for design will get out and embarrass them someday. Unlike religion, science is more a field of up-and-coming young turks rather than vested, old interests, and if there were something there, every young buck would be climbing on the bandwagon and twitting his seniors with it. Trust me on this, having been a hopeful young turk once myself.<br />2. The second thing is that Behe obviously sees himself as the path-breaking bringer of this message to a fearful scientific community which is conspiring to keep it a secret. Hardly. In fact, religion has never recovered from the triple blow that evoution, historical geology, and cosmology have dealt it--since all three sciences conflict with the Bible's view of things.<br />Also, if Behe were as good a philosoper as he is a biochemist, he'd know this argument isn't new. If fact, it goes back about 800 years to Thomistic philosophy, or the \\"teleological argument.\\" Here it is: \\"The world exhibits order. Where there is order there must be an orderer, hence, God.\\" If one subtitutes \\"designer\\" for \\"orderer\\" you have Behe's argument. Not a big deal, but nevertheless, Behe was hardly the first to notice this.<br />3. But the biggest problem is the idea of \\"irreducible complexity\\" being an argument for intelligent design. As another perceptive reviewer here noted, something that is ridiculously complex is hardly evidence of intelligent design, such as the extremely complicated and Rube Goldberg-like blood-clotting mechanism Behe discusses. This revewer points out that as inventions, the AK-47 and the Uzi are examples of very simple, but elegant mechanical designs which are still among the best.<br />Therefore, a similarly elegant-in-its-simplicity blood-clotting mechanism would be better evidence for \\"intelligent design.\\" The blood-clotting mechanism is so Byzantine that it seems more likely a product of the typical evolutionary process of many false starts and dead ends, with old mechanisms that weren't totally obsolete being preserved, and new developments just being added on as needed. Evolution is conservative, after all--again, not a quality associated with Godlike, intelligent design.<br />4. Which brings up another problem. Creationists complain that evolution seems capricious and random. Well, it is in many ways, which is why the blood-clotting mechanism is the way it is--needlessly complex--again, hardly evidence of intelligent design. But you can't have it both ways.<br />5. The Bible may be a great book, but it contains nothing special in the way of scientific knowlege that wouldn't have been known by illiterate sheep herders thousands of years ago, which is what the Hebrews were initially, from the foothills of the Zagros Mountains in southwestern Iran, from where they migrated south to the ancient Cities of the Plain about 4000 years ago. Obviously there's been a lot of progress since, in everything from medicine and biology to chemistry to physics and cosmology. If there was one statement in the Bible that seemed like it might be from a more advanced being in terms of the knowlege, you'd have something, but there isn't. It's all very low-level stuff, as you might expect.<br />6. Which leads to another similar issue. If you were going to a doctor, wouldyou want a Sumerian one from 4000 years ago, or a modern, scientifically advanced physician? The same goes for something like a horse-drawn chariot vs. a modern car. Which would you prefer? What I'm saying here is that it seems hypocritical for Christians and Creationists especially to be willing to accept all of science and technology's many advances and then to complain when one area, evolution, conflicts with their beliefs. I'd be more impressed if they rejected everything from science and lived very primitively. At least they'd be consistent in their beliefs, rather than taking such a sour grapes attitude toward one science that they don't like, when they're perfectly willing to accept the many benefits from all the others.<br />7. Creationists obviously like this book as it seems to propose a scientific basis for believing in God. As we've seen, Behe failed in that attempt. However, there was no need for Behe, anyway. Einstein believed in God. And Behe's reputation is so much less than Einstein's that I see no need for Behe at all. If one needs an authority who was a believer, you can't do better than Einstein. So why not just believe because of Einstein and be done with it?<br />8. My final problem with Behe is that, although I don't know his beliefs personally, it seems pretty obvious that he's a Christian scientist. No problem with that, as long as one keeps one's science separate from one's religion. Otherwise there's the temptation to filter and distort the scientific facts in order to support one's own preconceived view of reality, which is exactly what happened in Darwin's Black Box.<br />9. Finally, I'd like to close this discussion with something from one of Paul Tillich's books. (Yes neurobiologists occasionally read Tillich. At least this one does). Tillich was one of the most brilliant theologians and philosophers of the 20th century. His little book, The Dynamics of Faith (which is only about 140 pages) is packed with much of the best that Tillich's subtle and profound mind had to offer. The chapter, \\"The Truth of Faith,\\" is probably the greatest essay on the attempt to reconcile faith with reason, and how an intelligent man can be religious ever written, a subject which goes back at least to St. Augustine's The City of God over 1500 years ago.<br />Tillich understood implicitly that faith that needs or attempts to justify itself isn't true faith. Tillich understood that science and faith are inherently different and can't be reconciled. In that sense, Tillich is smarter than Behe, who does faith an injustice by trying, however ingeniously (more like disingenuously), to put it on a rational or scientific basis.<br />Tillich's other important idea in this chapter was that faith can become a transformative and even transcendent force in people's lives. As another reviewer of the book put it so perceptively, \\"Faith is creative precisely because we act even though we cannot be entirely sure of the outcome. This is the Faith that creates science and art, and produces miracles in everyday life. When that Faith is attached to life's ultimate concern, it becomes sacred and holy.\\"<br />Anyway, just a few comments on a book that has sparked much unnecessary controversy, since there's nothing especially controversial about it. But I give Behe 3 stars (which is being generous) for overall writing well and for providing some diverting although ultimately fallacious arguments for the existence of God.ld you want a Sumerian one from 4000 years ago, or a modern, scientifically advanced physician? The same goes for something like a horse-drawn chariot vs. a modern car. Which would you prefer? What I'm saying here is that it seems hypocritical for Christians and Creationists especially to be willing to accept all of science and technology's many advances and then to complain when one area, evolution, conflicts with their beliefs. I'd be more impressed if they rejected everything from science and lived very primitively. At least they'd be consistent in their beliefs, rather than taking such a sour grapes attitude toward one science that they don't like, when they're perfectly willing to accept the many benefits from all the others.<br />7. Creationists obviously like this book as it seems to propose a scientific basis for believing in God. As we've seen, Behe failed in that attempt. However, there was no need for Behe, anyway. Einstein believed in God. And Behe's reputation is so much less than Einstein's that I see no need for Behe at all. If one needs an authority who was a believer, you can't do better than Einstein. So why not just believe because of Einstein and be done with it?<br />8. My final problem with Behe is that, although I don't know his beliefs personally, it seems pretty obvious that he's a Christian scientist. No problem with that, as long as one keeps one's science separate from one's religion. Otherwise there's the temptation to filter and distort the scientific facts in order to support one's own preconceived view of reality, which is exactly what happened in Darwin's Black Box.<br />9. Finally, I'd like to close this discussion with something from one of Paul Tillich's books. (Yes neurobiologists occasionally read Tillich. At least this one does). Tillich was one of the most brilliant theologians and philosophers of the 20th century. His little book, The Dynamics of Faith (which is only about 140 pages) is packed with much of the best that Tillich's subtle and profound mind had to offer. The chapter, \\"The Truth of Faith,\\" is probably the greatest essay on the attempt to reconcile faith with reason, and how an intelligent man can be religious ever written, a subject which goes back at least to St. Augustine's The City of God over 1500 years ago.<br />Tillich understood implicitly that faith that needs or attempts to justify itself isn't true faith. Tillich understood that science and faith are inherently different and can't be reconciled. In that sense, Tillich is smarter than Behe, who does faith an injustice by trying, however ingeniously (more like disingenuously), to put it on a rational or scientific basis.<br />Tillich's other important idea in this chapter was that faith can become a transformative and even transcendent force in people's lives. As another reviewer of the book put it so perceptively, \\"Faith is creative precisely because we act even though we cannot be entirely sure of the outcome. This is the Faith that creates science and art, and produces miracles in everyday life. When that Faith is attached to life's ultimate concern, it becomes sacred and holy.\\" <br />Anyway, just a few comments on a book that has sparked much unnecessary controversy, since there's nothing especially controversial about it. But I give Behe 3 stars (which is being generous) for overall writing well and for providing some diverting although ultimately fallacious arguments for the existence of God.	2003-06-04
1102155:US	45193257	R3GAPC5KD3S3Y6	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Some comments on the philosophy involved	This review discusses the philosophical aspects of Behe's idea, which are easier to present than the more technical molecular biology.    However, there's some technical philosophy here, too, so I apologize in advance for that--but at least it's easier than the molecular biology.    Behe's basic idea comes down to asserting that molecular biology is \\"irreducibly complex,\\" and that this is evidence of Divine design and intervention. The question is, is this argument valid? If you're already a believer, then Behe is just preaching to the choir, and there's no need to convince anybody. If one is not, then the argument has some interest. So the question remains, is it valid? So let's take a look at that.    This argument, although interesting, isn't new, and in fact is quite old, going back  800 years or so to Thomistic philosophy. Actually, there are two such related arguments, but Behe's idea is really a variation of one of them. The first is the \\"teleological argument,\\" which can be summarized as follows, \\"The world exhibits order. Where there is order, there must be an orderer--hence God.\\" If one substitutes the word \\"order\\" with \\"designer,\\" then you have Behe's argument in a nutshell, and you don't need to read all the technical molecular biology to understand it all. It's basically quite simple.    For completeness' sake, I'll mention a second classical argument that has some relevance here: the cosmological argument. \\"Neither the world nor any part of itself can be the cause of itself. Hence, there must be a cause not identical with the world, or God.\\" But Behe's idea is really more a variation on the teleological argument, because if one grants that molecular biology is irreducibly complex, it's understood that it can't be the cause of itself, and that God is involved. So the cosmological argument is also implicit in Behe's idea.    Behe's idea is interesting in that it attempts to put this argument for the existence of God on more of a scientific, rather than aphilosophical basis. Behe's wish to do that is understandable, since religion has never really recovered from the blow that the three areas of science, Darwinian evolution, historical geology, and cosmology, have dealt it, and so it's interesting to see if science can somehow come to its aid finally.    However, there are problems with that. The first problem is that what counts as irreducibly complex is very subjective. For example, I am a neurobiologist by training, and although molecular biology is indeed complicated and impressive, having studied both areas, I can tell you that molecular biology is not very complex compared to the brain. In fact, it's practical simple. There have been 1000-page books written on very small brain areas (having had to read some of them), and the human brain is composed of more than 14,000 major and minor brain centers and pathways. So although molecular biology is no doubt an impressive and interesting area on its own, it still can't hold a candle to the brain, and I know of no neurobiologists who think that the brain is evidence that God exists.     Hence, Behe's argument is really a relative, subjective one in terms of the complexity criterion, which lands him on sort of a slippery slope--which isn't where he wants to be.    The second problem with Behe's idea is that even if we grant that molecular biology has come to the aid of religion here, the three other sciences of evolution, geology, and cosmology all conflict with the Bible's version of things. The theory of evolution, the historical geology of the earth's past, and the Big Bang theory of the origin of the universe all conflict with the Bible's story. So if we just tally the votes here, it's still 3 to 1, with molecular biology the only science throwing its weight on the side of religion.    Well, this is already a long review too, just like my molecular biology one. So I will stop here and just say I hope you enjoyed my review on the philosophical aspects of Behe's book.	2003-06-03
1103674:US	45193257	R3UN23UB1KESMX	0316940453	997448286	Modern Baptists	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Funny portrait	I don't read much fiction anymore, but this book had amazing endorsements by such notables as Robert Penn Warren, Walker Percy, Toni Morrison, Anne Tyler, and others, so I gave it a try.<br />This book reminded me a lot of John Welter's I Want to Buy a Vowel in it's intimate, humorous, and ironic look at American small-town life. In this case, it's small-town southern Louisiana that Wilcox describes, and he does a fine job of realizing the little dramas and characters that inhabit this declining small town near Baton Rouge. I found the humor more bittersweet and ironic, compared to the thigh-slappers that one gets from authors like Carl Hiaasen, Tim Dorsey, Chris Moore, and Bill Fitzhugh, but it's still funny in a bittersweet sort of way and worth reading by itself.<br />I note that this book came out in 1988, not long after Hiaasen started writing, and things have gotten much wackier since in the humor genre. If you've read Dorsey's Triggerfish Twist and Fitzhugh's Pest Control then you know what I'm talking about. So although not quite in that league, I still enjoyed it and can recommend it for those looking for a writer with a talent for humorous, sensitive, and realistic portraits of small town life in the deep South.	2003-06-01
1105760:US	45193257	R3I3EJ3MANDGLN	1580084729	44399530	Why Paint Cats: The Ethics of Feline Aesthetics	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Very funny book	This is one of the most entertaining art books I've seen. The text is well-written enough to fool most people, and the only way I knew it was a spoof was I've read my share of art criticism and art history, even though I'm a biologist by training, and I think I can detect when someone is making fun of the whole business.<br />Having figured out the text was a joke, it was only a hop, skip, and a jump to figuring out the cat paintings were probably fake and probably done on a computer. I'm not positive about this, since they look so realistic, but it seems likely. Also, it seems unlikely that any cat would sit still long enough to have such elaborate paintings done.<br />Furthermore, if that wasn't enough, the author states that some of the paintings were by well-known artists that cost as much as $7000 each--not very likely. (Also I've never heard of any of these artists).<br />Whether they're real or fake, the cat paintings are truly spectacular and are entertaining just by themselves. I note that a veterinarian in a previous review of this book said he saw his first \\"painted cat\\" recently, and he said that the cat had tried to lick off the paint and had ulcers on its tongue. This could be a jest also, but I suppose someone could have been taken in by the book too and actually tried to do one.<br />Well, I hope most people realize the whole book is very likely an elaborate joke and don't try to paint anymore cats if it can be harmful to them, but the book as just a book of remarkable cat \\"paintings\\" is quite entertaining.	2003-05-30
1129256:US	45193257	RA2X6XTOWMX6I	0061031550	151169729	Triggerfish Twist (Serge Storms)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another winner from Dorsey	This is my third Dorsey novel and he delivers with this one too. Dorsey is a lot like Hiaasen, only with a significantly more violent and demented twist. People are always getting bumped off in his novels, often in very creative ways. Readers of his Florida Roadkill and Hammerhead Ranch Motel books will be delighted to find that Serge and Coleman are back in this novel, which is actually a prequel to these books. Serge fans won't be disappointed as Serge is up to his usual frenetic and frenzied antics and also bumps off at least one deserving scumbag in his usual creative way. Coleman's character gets some hilarious fleshing out and development here, more so than in the previous books. And Sharon the gorgeous cocaine-snorting floozy/nympho makes up the threesome in this novel. The novel is very fast-paced and there is hardly a dull moment during the entire book, and Dorsey builds all the interelated threads and characters up to a spectacular and satisfying climax. Definitely another must-read for the Dorsey fans out there.	2003-05-10
1280807:US	45193257	R38XK5YEEDH4G4	0867195525	749103122	Orgasm XL	Books	5	13	68	N	N	An eye-opener	This book is living proof that we Americans are not the cultural barbarians we're always made out to be. Let's hear it for Tony Ward, who knows how to teach those stuffy European fuddy-duddies a lesson or two about real culture!	2003-01-05
1291512:US	45193257	R2VOMOLH87FFNV	0071373519	791757138	Adams & Victor's Manual of Neurology	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Useful summary	This book is a useful brief review and compendium of diagnostic neurological information. The paperback version is small enough to carry around or put in a briefcase. The book packs a considerable amount of information into about 400 pages. There are a couple of dozen chapters, organized according to the usual neurological disease categories, and there are a number of nicely done charts and tables that make good, quick references. Keep in mind this book is not intended to be exhaustive and is meant as a quick review or reference. It is intended for practicing physicians, so familiarity with the technical and medical terminology is assumed, and most technical terms are not explained. The book benefits from recent research, and contains up-to-date information on such rapidly changing areas as Alzheimer's. The book has references into Adams and Ropper's larger neurological handbook for those who want more information. Overall a good, concise reference work in neurology.	2002-12-27
1291710:US	45193257	R258UXMFKW5W8U	1576104257	272524009	Game Architecture and Design: Learn the Best Practices for Game Design and Programming	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A specific comment	I was mainly interested in the 22 page chapter on the history of game development and technology, so I can only speak to that section, although I did peruse and read some of the other chapters, which also looked good.<br />In this chapter, the author does an excellent job of recounting the history of game and graphics programming from the early 80's, when progammer's compiled their programs themselves by manually converting the op codes into hex and then using a hex loader to load them into the machine, to the development of the Watcom and Microsoft C compilers, to DirectX controls, and the development and use of the COM model, which has powerful features such as versioning support and other useful things. I found this history very interesting and well done, and accessible to a non-software engineer like myself. The author often uses examples of which games were the first to be developed with a new advance, such as Doom, which was the first major game to be written almost completely in C rather than assembler, something that wasn't thought practical at the time because of speed and performance concerns. The author mentions that the only thing not actually written in C was a couple of horizontal and vertical line-drawing routines.<br />The author shows how the early history of games was dominated by the programmer's need to live within limits of the hardware, especially the limited amount of RAM, and the need to write in assembly language for speed purposes, or \\"writing directly to the metal,\\" as it was called back then. And he shows how more powerful later developments freed programmers from these limitations, such as the advent of 32-bit memory architecture, which eliminated the need to use the old 20-bit segment:offset model with it's 1 meg total RAM limit and the need to partition and access memory in 64K blocks, and so on.<br />As I said, I didn't read the entire book, but I did read some of the other chapters, and there seemed to be a lot of good, practical advice there on how to avoid many of the problems typical of developer teams and of the developing and managing process as well.vice there on how to avoid many of the problems typical of developer teams and of the developing and managing process as well.	2002-12-27
1297484:US	45193257	R23HFH8JW6UJ0H	1859679110	650884021	The Ultimate Encyclopedia of Knots & Ropework	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Best knot book I've seen	I've look at a half dozen other knot books over the years, and this is the best one I've seen. Very clear photos of the tying procedures, along with the use of differently colored ropes when more than two ropes are being used, and nice, glossy paper so the photos look great, make this a very visually appealing knot book to just browse, or to seriously learn from. Also the author includes some interesting history when that is known. For example, the prusik knot, now used in mountain climbing, was originally invented by a Dr. Prusik, an Austrian music professor, before World War I for tying broken musical strings together.<br /><br />The book covers 200 different knots. There are knots for every practical need, as well as mainly aesthetic ones such as the &#34;lucky knot&#34; or four-leaf clover knot, which could be used for a keychain fob.<br /><br />For a knot enthusiast, Budworth has an interesting bio. He's appeared on TV and radio, was president of the International Knot Guild, which he founded, and is a consultant on forensic matters relating to knots in Great Britain. Overall, an attractive and well done book on an obscure but interesting craft and specialty.	2002-12-21
1298528:US	45193257	R2RHD5B3TC4GCE	0761128611	524714237	The Best-Case Scenario Handbook: A Parody	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very funny	This book has some very funny moments, such as How to Accept the Nobel Peace Prize, What to Do if You Win the Lottery, and many others. My favorite one is about what to do if you're stranded on a desert island with Jennifer Lopez. These range from explaining that the reason you don't want to build a signal fire is it would damage the island's delicate ecology, to saying that you're basically a sensitive guy and it's okay with you to go slow with the relationship. There are many other scenarios in the book, and overall it's a lighthearted and funny piece of writing.	2002-12-20
1305675:US	45193257	R2RV5MJZ4974JT	0446670340	434840508	Culture of Complaint: The Fraying of America	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Hughes delivers again	Robert Hughes is one of my favorite writers on history and art, and I also enjoyed his book, The Fatal Shore, a history of the Botany Bay colony in Australia. Hughes has always had an interest in modern art (many of you may recall his great TV series, \\"The Shock of the New,\\" back in the 80's), and since much of modern art has come out of America, perhaps it's no surprise he wrote this book, which takes a broader look at American culture.<br />Hughes's devastating critique of the foibles of modern American politics, political correctness, racial and gender issues, pop culture, post-modern criticism, and graduate liberal arts education, to name a few of the things he takes aim at, is articulate, entertaining, and deadly accurate. Unlike the post-modern critics whose obscure and turgid prose he skewers, Hughes knows how to write, and he puts that to good effect in this book. Cultural ideas, icons, and events, both high- and lowbrow, don't fail to escape his purview and his petard. (He even has an entertaining discussion of religion and masturbation on pages 56-57).<br />Hughes's book reminds me of another important work, The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism, by sociologist Daniel Bell, in which he noted America is a country where seemingly paradoxical cultural traits often find happy marriages and perhaps even happier divorces. And as Hughes points out, our increasingly politically correct Zeitgeist threatens to underwhelm us all with the ever more blanched and bloodless cornucopia of American pop culture.<br />Overall, this is a fun romp through the cultural minefield of modern America, and I'd actually give it 4.5 stars if I could. If we listen to Hughes, perhaps it won't become the sterile, cultural necropolis full of the \\"stuffed and hollow\\" men that T.S. Elliot wrote about in his famous poem, \\"The Wasteland.\\"	2002-12-13
1306202:US	45193257	R2885UHT1W8VIG	0295966661	917923349	Mosses, Lichens, and Ferns of Northwest North America (Photographic Field Guide)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Excellent	The beautiful photos of lichens and mosses are the best feature of this book. Even many of the harder to identify crustose lichens are included and equally well photographed in this handsome guide. It is difficult to get a handle on lichen identification without some formal training, but this book will enable you to at least make identifications for some of the easier foliose and fruticose ones, such as parmelia or usnea, for example, and perhaps the more difficult ones too as you become more knowlegeable and experienced. The crustose lichen, rhizocarpon geographicum, for example, isn't that hard to identify from the tile-like pattern it makes on rocks and the lime-green color and black apothecia on the plant thallus.<br />Along with the photos, there are good descriptions and range maps showing plant distributions.<br />I had the opportunity to take supposedly the only full-semester lichenology class being taught that year in the entire U.S. by the late, great Harry Thiers, back in the mid-80's at San Francisco State University, a graduate botany course in which I'm proud to say I got an A. So I have some formal training in the area, and feel I can judge a good book on the subject when I see it, and this beautifully illustrated field guide is definitely worth the relatively modest price.	2002-12-13
1307090:US	45193257	R1CLTFEJCFX5P9	1551050404	643221385	Plants of the Pacific Northwest Coast: Washington, Oregon, British Columbia, and Alaska	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A superb guide	I have almost 100 different plant identification guides alone; some quite specialized (such as the ones I have on lichens, mycology, or marine algae), and others more general, and this is probably the best general guide organized by region that I have. I like it even better than the Audubon Society Pacific Coast guide, or their Forests, Western Region, Guide, which are also useful books, but as they cover both animals and plants, of course the coverage can't be as complete on the plants as this book is.<br />The nature photography in these books just gets better over the years, and this book is no exception. The photos are truly excellent, and the identification notes in books like these have also improved substantially over the years. This book is no exception. I was formally trained in botany and plant taxonomy for a while, almost completing a master's degree in the subject once, and I feel I know a good plant guide when I see it, and this is a fine book.<br />Unless you want to get into truly professional-level plant taxonomies, which would usually require separate books on trees, flowers, lichens, etc., not to mention the greater technical knowlege required, I think this is the best overall identification guide around. It can't cover everything, of course, but it covers the most important and most common species. Overall, this is a quality guide and a great book to take with you on trips, hikes, outings, or whatever.	2002-12-12
1308746:US	45193257	R3GS95LHG4L34U	0931104351	566945798	Survival Games Personalities Play	Books	4	4	16	N	N	And a sequel?	With the knowledge I gained from this excellent book, I plan to follow this with the classic, \\"Personality Games Survivalists Play,\\" by the Donner Party family.	2002-12-11
1309220:US	45193257	R22PR5P9FXRJCR	0071387676	31670376	Winning the Loser's Game: Timeless Strategies for Successful Investing	Books	4	6	14	N	N	Help for the Bewildered	Since my life has had more ups and downs than this stock market, which is saying something, I decided to check out this book, and see if I could at least not be a loser in one area of my life. Unfortunately, I'm as unlucky in the stock market as I am in love, work, and the rest of my life. So the title of this book is basically the story of my whole life, except it's more like \\"Losing the Winner's Game.\\" Hopefully, this useful book will help me turn at least that aspect of my life around. So far I've found this to be a decent book on the stock market.	2002-12-11
1309252:US	45193257	R3UY9L8MMVH8BP	0202020274	336834331	Sex and Friendship in Baboons (Evolutionary Foundations of Human Behavior Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The only guide	Despite the title, I'd prefer to have sex and friendship outside of a baboon, but for those brave enough to try, this book is an indispensable guide.<br />As the great Groucho Marx once said, \\"Outside of a dog, a book is a man's best friend. Inside of a dog, of course, it's too dark to read.\\" And I might add--sex and friendship too.	2002-12-11
1309442:US	45193257	R2VRM3JNGN0T77	0892214600	689640583	8 P.R.O.M.I.S.E.S.: Really Relevant Super Significant Promises for Teenagers Who Want to Fall in Love with Jesus Forever	Books	5	1	2	N	N	What do they do on the honeymoon?	The subject of this book is certainly a big improvement over what teenagers usually want to do in the love department these days. Highly recommended for all parents of hormonally normal teenagers.	2002-12-11
1309682:US	45193257	R1NYGKOSDB8VFC	0060969938	25858016	Here on Gilligan's Isle/the Professor's Behind-The-Scenes Guide to Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Gilligan's Island, Including a Complete E	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A few comments	When I was growing up during the time this show was airing, one of the standard questions among my teenage friends was, who did you have a crush on, Ginger or Marianne? Interestingly, there was almost universal agreement that, although Ginger was hot, Marianne had that girl-next-door wholesomeness and sex appeal, and so she got the vote.<br />Almost 35 years later this same question came up at a lunch with a bunch of my work associates, most of whom are middle-aged computer geek types or engineers like me. The funny thing was, everybody agreed they still liked Marianne. I guess some things never change.<br />But after her, the Professor was my favorite character on the program, and years later, when I was a college instructor briefly myself, I attributed it at least partly to the example Russell Johnson set on this show, as silly as that might sound. That maybe, and the original Star Trek, which made science and technology glamorous and sexy and very ungeeklike.<br />Well, for all those who loved this show like I did and were in some way inspired to do something in their lives because of it, this book is full of great behind-the-scenes stories and trivia about every aspect of the show and characters. This book will be appreciated by all fans of this classic American 60's comedy series.	2002-12-10
1312744:US	45193257	R3LB3YKUIWXWNX	0877797137	285809390	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Tenth Edition With CD Rom	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One thing to think about	I just had a brief comment on something many people probably don't think about when buying a dictionary.<br />One problem with dictionaries, especially of English, is the problem of updating it for new words. English is particularly good, or bad, about this, about coming up with neologisms, and lexicographers routinely track new words to see if they have enough legs and staying power in use to become worthy of inclusion in the dictionary.<br />This dictionary has the advantage of being updated every year, and new editions come out every few years or so, as opposed to the other much bigger dictionaries, although they often have supplements that you can buy.<br />Most of us probably don't need to be that up-to-date on new words, unless one is really hung-up on slang, but it's one of the things that makes life hard for a lexicographer of English. Also, not all the new words are slang-related--many are techologically related--and those also get added to the language and change more and more quickly these days.	2002-12-08
1313540:US	45193257	R3RWY44B6KCJO2	0852298323	929465475	Britannica Concise Encyclopedia	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A worthwhile reference work	This is a condensed version of the great 32-volume work. You can't have too many reference works that you never actually use anymore in your life (now that most of it is on the web), so I thought I'd check this out. What's one more weighty tome that I never read that sits on the shelf?<br />Well, that was my first reaction. Actually, this is a very nicely done book. It has 28,000 articles and many beautiful, color illustrations, and it's actually a pretty good book to just browse through and look at. It's comparable to the well-known Columbia Encyclopedia, which I have often used in libraries, and now in its 6th ed. It has many more entries, at 51,000, but it's not as concise either, but the Columbia work has suggestions for further reading. Both books are fine reference works, however, and should serve you well whichever one you decide to buy.	2002-12-07
1315564:US	45193257	R2O3NWWDI20EVV	189778497X	853594143	Scotch Missed: The Lost Distilleries of Scotland	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Some nice history	Many of Scotland's distilleries had closed in recent (and not-so-recent) decades, and I thought I'd mention some of my favorites, which Townsend discusses in his book.<br />Some, like the heavily peated Islay, Ardbeg (which I understand has been re-opened, fortunately), were justly famous; others, like Dallas Dhu and Millburn, were more obscure, but their closing was still a loss. People used to make jokes about the Dallas Dhu name (which means \\"black glen\\" in Scots Gaelic), but it really did produce a fine malt, and I had fun doing tastings of it with friends back in the late 80's, when it was still readily available in independent bottlings at different ages and from different independent bottlers. It was notable for some semi-sweet chocolate notes, a rare flavor and essence in scotch whiskey, and I used to enjoy it very much. The only other malt that comes to mind with a chocolate flavor to me right now was a 25-year-old bottling of Scapa, a 1968 or therabouts issue, if I remember correctly. But anyway, it certainly was a fine malt and worthy of comparison with the Dallas Dhu. One time I put on a tasting for other single-malt afficianado friends and acqaintances of almost nothing but \\"vanished malts,\\" of which I had bottles of about a dozen at the time, and we all had a great time tasting their whiskies and talking about single-malts and whatever.<br />Although bourbons and cognacs are impressive spirits too, if there is one thing that separates single malts from the others, it's the sheer spectrum of diversity and intensity of the many qualities that they possess. The intense, crystal-clear essences and flavors of this great distillate are unique, and in truly appreciating a fine dram of one of the great single malts at the end of a day, even life's more pressing problems seem to themselves vanish for a moment. As someone once wrote, life is still worth living as long as there is a good single-malt available. And perhaps that's why it translates from the Gaelic as \\"the water of life.\\"<br />But getting back to Townsend's book, here he gives a nod to the history and scotch of the many famous and more obscure distilleries and whiskies of Scotland that are no longer with us. I consider myself pretty knowledgeable about all the different distilleries, even the defunct ones, but I still learned some new things from this enjoyable book, and I would recommend it to any and all single-malt enthusiasts who are looking for something different in a book about scotch.as \\"the water of life.\\"<br />But getting back to Townsend's book, here he gives a nod to the history and scotch of the many famous and more obscure distilleries and whiskies of Scotland that are no longer with us. I consider myself pretty knowledgeable about all the different distilleries, even the defunct ones, but I still learned some new things from this enjoyable book, and I would recommend it to any and all single-malt enthusiasts who are looking for something different in a book about scotch.	2002-12-06
1316577:US	45193257	R3MZUM2MYGPSK9	0810916991	768374572	Volcanoes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great photos	This book contains some truly spectacular photos of volcanoes and volcanic eruptions. The geology of volcanoes often creates scenes with vivid but strange, unworldly-looking colors, such as the man standing next to a small mountain of greenish-yellow sulfur, the milky, powder-blue color of the water in a volcano's caldera, the metallic colors of the mineral deposits crusting the walls and fissures in vocanoes, and the bright, honeycomb-like pattern in a lava lake, along with the other photos of red-hot lava flowing, oozing, glopping, spattering, squirting, or whatever, in the book. The book includes aerial as well as terrestrial photos, and they range from close-ups to vast panoramic views of the mountains and their surroundings. Overall this is a beautiful book with many spectacular photos, and last but not least, the text by Jacques Durieux is interesting and well-written.	2002-12-05
1317082:US	45193257	R4LKYRTDBE9TO	0792274512	426421212	National Geographic Field Guide to the Birds of North America : Revised and Updated	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Still a fine work	My natural history interests are mainly in botany and mycology, but I also have an interest in birding, and I own dozens of bird identification books, and this is one of my favorites. Although there may be better books for the field or for home reference now, such as the newer Sibley, Kaufmann, or Smithsonian books, this is still a good work for general identification purposes, and it's served me well for that. Since this one was written there has even been a large, Reader's Digest volume about 10 years ago that was actually pretty well done, I thought, so everybody seems to be getting into the act.<br />As another reviewer here perceptively pointed out, the paintings in this book are more modeled and 3-dimensional looking, compared to the classic Peterson book, which look flatter and less solid. Also, the colors are more muted, and therefore more realistic to me. Both the Peterson and NG books have good field notes and tips on behavior which are useful. The 3-volume Smithsonian guides have great pictures, of course, but they're better for home use since carrying three books in the field usually isn't practical.<br />There are other specific differences between this and the Peterson book, but others have already pointed these out here, so I'll just conclude by saying if I had to have just one guide, this would definitely be in my top 3 for the honor.	2002-12-04
1317332:US	45193257	R3EMQLYYN8273F	0226500667	200661390	A River Runs Through It and Other Stories, Twenty-fifth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Transcends the genre	I've often heard that this is a superbly crafted novel, and it announces this from the very opening sentence, almost the way Gravity's Rainbow did with the infamous line, \\"A screaming comes across the sky.\\" But unlike Pynchon, McLean is an author of deliberate economy and calculated brevity, which he knows how to put to good effect. As a result, McLean knows how to tell a good yarn, and this story ranks as one of the greatest of the many fine works inspired by fly-fishing.<br />As for myself, I'm often willing to sacrifice craftsmanship for creativity, and an author who shows great originality or even brilliance but is perhaps a little rough around the edges formally or stylistically, is something I appreciate too. You can see this in certain composers. For example, Beethoven's transitions are sometimes a little rough, unlike Mendelsohn's or Schubert's, who, like McLean, often show great craftsmanship in the little as well as the big things. But most scholars would still consider Beethoven the greater of the three,  although they're all certainly great composers, and Schubert had a truly spontaneous gift for coming up with melodies that even his great mentor, Beethoven, lacked, who often had to work very hard on his melodic material.<br />But before I wander too far into the muddy Elysian fields of comparative aesthetics, McLean's book has rightly become a classic of northwestern writing, and many think it belongs in the Pantheon of great American literature, an elevated position the pragmatic and unpretentious Scottsman in McLean might have regarded with a somewhat jaundiced eye. But as a friend of mine perceptively remarked, unlike Barth's later books, whose literary merit rarely exceeds their pretentions, McLean's book transcends the fly-fishing genre, exceeding its modest aspirations to become a truly great work of American literature in its own right.	2002-12-04
1318511:US	45193257	R1VZHXFEWZUVH0	0395935229	368728685	The Book of Bourbon: And Other Fine American Whiskeys	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Outstanding	I've tried a lot of bourbons and ryes over the years, probably over 100, so it's an area I have some idea about. So I wasn't sure I would learn much from another book about it. But Regan's descriptions of the specific flavors and essences in the various bourbons are excellent, and having tried almost everything in the book and done my own taste analyses, I can say he truly knows his stuff, and I picked up some new things as well.<br /><br />Regan also does a fine job of discussing the history of bourbon and the various distilleries, and although this background is interesting too, and also the details on actual bourbon distilling, the best part of the book is the descriptions, as this is the best way to learn to detect and disciminate the features of the different bourbons. Bourbons differ from each other almost as much as single malts, and learning to appreciate the full spectrum of of styles and possibilities is one of the great things about bourbon. There are important differences in the flavors and essences present in bourbon vs. scotch. Although it's not a hard and fast rule, bourbons tend to be stronger with respect to the \\"dark fruits,\\"--that is, the plum, raisen, prune, and dates flavors, which single-malt whiskies typically don't have-- although Linkwood is one scotch that is famous for its raisen-like flavor.<br /><br />Another difference between bourbons and single-malts is they are often sweeter and more sugary on the palette than scotch, which is why you can do things like pour it over deserts and ice-cream--something you probably wouldn't want to do with scotch--although I once had an amazing 17-yr. old Cadenhead, Ltd. (one of the several independent scotch agers and bottlers) bottle of Longmorn that was pure nectar, very sweet, and hardly tasted like typical scotch at all, and was more like a hybrid between a very sweet bourbon and Cognac.<br /><br />One fun thing I learned from this book is why I like the Old Fitzgerald and Old Weller bourbons so much. Turns out they use some rye as well as corn in the malt, which accounts for the spicey character of these fine bourbons. I didn't realize they were doing this until I read the section on these bourbons. Makers Mark, originally a small batch, \\"boutique\\" bourbon that has really caught on in the last 15 years and has come a long way from its modest beginnings in a small wooden building, also does this.<br /><br />Well, I could go on for a while on interesting things about bourbon and scotch and how they resemble or differ from each other, but I'll leave the rest to discover for yourself, hopefully by way of this book. Good luck and happy tasting!me rye as well as corn in the malt, which accounts for the spicey character of these fine bourbons. I didn't realize they were doing this until I read the section on these bourbons. Makers Mark, originally a small batch, \\"boutique\\" bourbon that has really caught on in the last 15 years and has come a long way from its modest beginnings in a small wooden building, also does this.    Well, I could go on for a while on interesting things about bourbon and scotch and how they resemble or differ from each other, but I'll leave the rest to discover for yourself, hopefully by way of this book. Good luck and happy tasting!	2002-12-03
1318715:US	45193257	R2UHXOWACT8RYS	0133075052	631655171	Fast Fourier Transform and Its Applications	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Outstanding classic	I am mainly a neurobiologist by training, but transform theory is very useful in visual neurobiology and visual psychophysics, and I've looked at and read dozens of books on various aspects of signal processing and transform theory. Much of this is surprisingly applicable to the brain science area, as the revolutionary work of David Marr and other scientists showed a quarter of a century ago.<br />But getting back to the present book, this is one of the best books I've read in the signal analysis area. Brigham's presentation of various aspects of the FT, including the continuous FT, digital FT, convolution integrals, and so on, is clear and concise, whether he's discussing theory or applications. Also, his disussion of the Nyquist sampling theorem is the best and easiest to understand I've read.<br />Interestingly, this theorem has quite practical applications, not just in digital sample theory, but in real life. According to the Nyquist theorem, no information is lost in converting from analog to digital form if the sampling frequency is twice that of the highest frequency in the signal. Well, have you ever used those audio headphones they have on commercial jetliners? The Nyquist theorem means they can switch the audio outputs at high frequency using well-known time-domain switching techniques rather than run copper to each passenger's seat. I've read that this saves 300 pounds of copper wire in a typical plane, the weight savings of which can of course be more profitably used for transporting other things. If you consider that 300 pounds is about the weight of your average couple,  you can see how the savings would add up after even a few flights.<br />But getting back to the book, I first encountered this work 20 years ago, and I'm delighted to see it's still around. My neurobiology student friends and I all got turned on to this book early in grad school, and it was a great help. I still fondly recall the many enjoyable hours we spent talking about how Fourier analysis and other techniques such as the Laplace transform, temporal modulation transfer fuction, two-dimensional convolution integrals, two-dimensional point-spread functons, filter techniques such as the finite and infinite response filters, Kalman filter, Hammond filter, and so on, could be applied to our area. And it all started with this book. It's a true classic that has never been exceeded for it's clear and concise exposition of a very important mathematical tool in both engineering and neurophysiology.er analysis and other techniques such as the Laplace transform, temporal modulation transfer fuction, two-dimensional convolution integrals, two-dimensional point-spread functons, filter techniques such as the finite and infinite response filters, Kalman filter, Hammond filter, and so on, could be applied to our area. And it all started with this book. It's a true classic that has never been exceeded for it's clear and concise exposition of a very important mathematical tool in both engineering and neurophysiology.	2002-12-03
1319249:US	45193257	RGW1I63DEIZ4F	0812236084	982403947	Misogyny: The Male Malady	Books	5	7	39	N	N	And now for the female malady	After reading this book I was inspired to think about a work to complement it for all the feminists out there, entitled, \\"Misoandry,\\" (a word which is probably a contraction of \\"me so angry\\").<br />As a budding misogynist myself who's recovering from a typical American upbringing in which I was taught to uncritically worship and indulge women who were probably completely undeserving of such adulation, I found this to be an invaluable guide to reforming my uxorious and adulatory ways with respect to the fairer sex.<br />Of course, women have their problems in life too. They have menarche, menopause, mental stress, and mendacious partners to deal with. Notice that all these words start with the word \\"men,\\" which is no doubt where all their problems come from. I'm sure my book on misoandry will be a runaway bestseller and make me a cult millionaire with all those rabid, man-hating feminists.	2002-12-03
1319648:US	45193257	R2AKQ7VBO0WIW	1930900090	820643610	The Shy Stegosaurus of Cricket Creek	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Fond memories of childhood	There are only a few other reviews posted on this obscure children's book, which has to be almost 40 years old, so I thought I would post a few comments.<br /><br />Lampman's children's books were ahead of their time, and should be better known. One reviewer here recalls reading the book back in 1964, which is about the year I would have read it. All the reviewers seem to have fond memories of reading this delightful book. The story about George the shy stegosaurus was one of the most entertaining children's books I ever read, which, from the title, you might think we were all nuts. But back in the early 60's this was state-of-the-art for children's books, and it really was a great little book.<br /><br />The book skillfully integrated a dinosaur theme with the story of the curious little brother and sister who discovered his hideaway, and things take off from there. I understand there are occasional rare, used copies available--but unfortunately they're not cheap.<br /><br />Lampman also wrote several other books, Rusty's Spaceship, one other Shy Stegosaurus book, The Shy Stegosaurus of Indian Springs, and The World Under the Back Steps. Rusty's Spaceship was another one of my favorites. In this book, Rusty and his alien friend, Tipia, go gallivanting around the solar system, having various adventures, before returning to earth, where they have a few more in their invisible spaceship.<br /><br />All these are great books for your kids. If you can find reasonably priced used copies, they're all worth picking up.	2002-12-03
1321715:US	45193257	R1WKPMLSER1754	0486233685	351263854	Handbook of the Indians of California, with 419 Illustrations and 40 Maps (Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin No. 78)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Outstanding ethnography, and still the best	California has the most culturally diverse Indian ethnography of any U.S. state. Since California habitats range from coastal near- rainforest to dry desert, the Indians have developed a wide range of cultural and technological innovations to deal with it. The linguistic relations are also complex and diverse, a particular interest of mine, and I thought Kroeber did a fine job of discussing this, too. Altogether, Kroeber spent 17 years compiling and writing this great work, and it shows.<br /><br />Some of the tribes understandably receive more coverage than others, because little was known about them at the time. For example, the Wappo and Washo Indians only have four and half pages each in the book, but the Yokuts section has 70 pages, but this is understandable given the original publication date of 1925 by the U.S. Government Printing Office. Since then, our knowledge of many of the tribes has become significantly greater, or at least less sketchy, but you'll have to consult other sources for that.<br /><br />One notable thing about the book is the photos of various individuals, most of which could probably not be obtained today--such as the picture of the &#34;Karok man in warrior custume in rod armor and helmut,&#34; or the &#34;Hupa (man) measuring dentalium money against tattoos on his forearm,&#34; two truly quite striking photographic portrayals.<br /><br />Despite its deficiencies (which are still modest considering how old it is), this still ranks as the best compendium of knowledge about California Indians, and one of the greatest ethnographies ever written.<br /><br />On a personal note, I thought I'd mention I had Kroeber's son, Ted, as my psychological statistics professor at San Francisco State back in the mid-70's. Although I never had the opportunity to meet the father, Ted was a really cool psych. prof., and I enjoyed his class. He said his father would often tell him and his sister Ursula (Ursula LeGuin, who became a famous science fiction author), stories about the Indians when they were children, and he would occasionally regale us with stories about his famous father in class, which helped to break up the necessary discipline and technical rigors of a statistics class.were children, and he would occasionally regale us with stories about his famous father in class, which helped to break up the necessary discipline and technical rigors of a statistics class.	2002-12-01
1322433:US	45193257	R2EOI3RJL450XT	0822601532	552500602	Chamber's Etymological English Dictionary	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent but not well-known dictionary	I have a 25-year old copy of this book, not sure which edition it is, but it's the one with the sort of shiny, orangish-brown cover. Anyway, it really is a great dictionary, for both etymological and other purposes, and it's one of my most useful word reference works. Now out of print for many years, it's worth picking up if you can find a used copy. (You can't have enough dictionaries in your life).	2002-11-30
1322559:US	45193257	R3IN11USITJ61R	0486601382	8880172	Elementary Metallurgy and Metallography	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The classic	I have the Dover 3rd edition of this classic, the one with the bilious, bright purple cover. I've been through half a dozen books on this fascinating subject and this is absolutely my favorite book on metallurgy. Very clear explanations of the properties of the various metals and alloy groups, especially steel and steel alloys, copper and copper alloys, alluminum, and zinc, with especially good treatments of the effects of the many alloying elements. Some of these properties are quite paradoxical and still difficult to predict and understand their effects even today, but it makes for fascinating reading nevertheless.<br />For example, it's understandable why adding such metals as tungsten, vanadium, titanium, or cobalt, and so on, would increase the temperature resistance and toughness of steel, since these are very tough elements with high melting points themselves. But why does adding aluminum produce a very fine, austenitic (i.e., non-magnetic) grain structure, thereby increasing the overall strength of the alloy? Or why does silicon, a non-metal, greatly increase the fatigue resistence of steel, which is why it's often used in car and truck springs and other similar applications? Even stranger, why does nickel, a magnetic, ferrous element itself, when added in large enough percentages to steel, produce alloys that are non-magnetic or austenitic themselves? All of this made for fascinating reading and discussion.<br />In addition to the above interesting sections, there are also very good discussions on such topics as the different types of furnace operations, annealing, hardening, and tempering, casting and finishing processes, heat treatment, defect analysis, and a nice section on thermodynamics and crystallography, as well as some special topics like powder metallurgy.<br />Overall, this is still a great classic and introduction that has yet to be exceeded.	2002-11-30
1322746:US	45193257	R1OJJ49XQ8ST8	0877793417	235981512	Merriam Webster's Dictionary of Synonyms: A Dictionary of Discriminated Synonyms With Antonyms and Analogous and Contrasted Words	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Excellent	This book and Chamber's Etymological English Dictionary are my two favorite but little-known word reference works. The main difference between this book and Roget's Thesaurus is it focuses more precisely on the actual meanings of the words. A thesaurus will give you plenty of words with similar or nearly similar meanings, grouped by general idea or concept. But most of the words are not exactly synonymous. If you need that, this book will come to your rescue. Another nice feature is, as another reviewer here pointed out, it will even give you examples of words with very similar meanings, but with enough description and definition so you can distinguish among otherwise seemingly identical words and synonyms.<br />It's also in some ways easier to use than a typical thesaurus, since if you just need a different word and can't recall one, it's easiest to just look it up and get a quick alternative, instead of going through all the extra words you'd get in a thesaurus, but which aren't exactly what you want. Overall, a fine reference work and one that deserves to be better known.	2002-11-30
1323242:US	45193257	R31EASWU5SPVKD	0789451565	591626548	Michael Jackson's Great Beer Guide	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Excellent	I've been a fan for many years of both Mr. Jackson's beer and single-malt scotch books, and I own all three editions of his scotch book.<br />The single-malt whisky volumes especially taught me how to isolate and appreciate the different essences and flavors in a particular whisky. Having learned to pick out all the flavors Mr. Jackson mentioned, I was even after a while able to come up with new things on my own, a true testament to a fine teacher and connoisseur of whisky and spirits.<br />I also learned a lot about beer from this book. Jackson provides tasting notes and interesting historical details about the 500 beers in this book. The beers are listed in alphabetical order by brewer rather than by type or style of beer, but that makes them easier to just look up to find the beer you want to learn about.<br />For example, Jackson discusses the Schneider Weisse brewery wheat beer. This Bavarian distillery is the oldest one to have specialized only in producing wheat beers, going all the way back to 1607. I tried it as a result of Jackson's recommendation, and it really is superb. It's a heavier, more intense example of the wheat beer style, with lots of character and fruitiness, with clove, spicey, and pineapple-like flavors.<br />Partly as a result of this book, I was led to try other styles and beers that I might not have tasted. As a result I feel I'm much more electic in my beer tastes than I was before, and I like and have learned to appreciate many different pilsners, lagers, ales, stouts, bocks, and many of the Belgian brews--of which there are up to a dozen or more different types--because of Mr. Jackson's erudite writing. A good example of this is the sweet Belgian lambic beers, which are not to everyone's taste but which I am now fond of, in addition to the other less sweet types.<br />Overall, a great book to read and learn from by a great connoisseur.	2002-11-29
1323892:US	45193257	RLBRU4YYJ6W8I	076240731X	465762094	Michael Jackson's Complete Guide To Single Malt Scotch 4th Ed	Books	5	74	78	N	N	Classic work	The discovery by Americans of single-malt whisky back in the 80's and 90's was one of the most interesting stories in the food and beverage market ever. This event by itself probably prevented a number of distilleries from closing, and several, such as the great Ardbeg, which had been moth-balled, were perhaps reopened as a result.<br />Some great but lesser known malts, like Edradour, found new appreciation for their tiny output abroad. Edradour, for example, produces less in a year than some distilleries do in a week, like Tomatin (the Edradour distillery only has 3 employees and only makes 2 barrels a week). Others, such as the Islays like Lagavulin, Laphroaig, and Bowmore, and even the oddly dual-natured Caol Isla, with its both sweetish and phenolic character, were already known in Scotland but garnered new fans here in America. As in Scotland, the Islays are not to everybody's taste, but I know people here who will hardly touch a drop of anything else--an amazing testament to the enthusiasm that has developed in America even for the stronger and more exotic malts. And probably no book did more to make that happen than Jackson's great little books on single-malt scotch.<br />On a personal note, sometimes even the Scots themselves failed to appreciate how far American sensibilities had come with respect to single malts. I had the experience 20 years ago, when still a young man, of sitting in a bar at the south end of Loch Lommond, and having a well-meaning bartender refuse to serve me some Laphroaig. He insisted on giving me Royal Brackla from an old bottle, itself a great malt. But he thought this young American didn't know what he was asking for, and I think he was worried he might do in a perfectly good, paying customer with a draught of the pungent, phenolic, peaty, and iodine-tasking Laphroaig.<br />These books taught me a lot and I have all 3 editions. They're great for learning to appreciate the particular aspects and flavors of a malt, and as I've been tasting single-malts for 20 years, I've found Mr. Jackson's descriptions to be very accurate and informative. In many cases, after learning from his description, I was able to go on and detect things that weren't even in the book--a great testament to his skill as a teacher and writer. Without his guidance, I wouldn't have been able to educate my sense of taste nearly as expertly.<br />There is no better way to learn about single malts than to take samples of several malts and then taste and compare them using this book. After you're tasted a couple of dozen malts you should be able to get a good sense of what's going on and be able to go on from there.<br />A good way to do this is to pick a couple of classic malts from each category, say a couple of lowlands, a couple of highlands or Speysides, and a couple of Islays, and taste them alongside each other with this book. Some of the malts are just so unique or special that they deserve tasting by themselves--as in the case of Clynelish and Highland Park, or Caol Isla and Talisker, or the often overlooked but wonderful lowland malt, Littlemill, with its sweet cocoanut, English toffee, and creme de caramel flavors.<br />Well, I could go on for a while about interesting things to do for tastings, but I will leave the rest of that to you, hopefully by way of this book, except for one last recommendation. The great Victorian connoisseur and single-malt scotch authority Professor Shaftsbury considered mixing together some Clynelish and Longmorn to be possibly the greatest drink in the world. So you might give it a try sometime and see what you think. Good luck and happy tasting!asting single-malts for 20 years, I've found Mr. Jackson's descriptions to be very accurate and informative. In many cases, after learning from his description, I was able to go on and detect things that weren't even in the book--a great testament to his skill as a teacher and writer. Without his guidance, I wouldn't have been able to educate my sense of taste nearly as expertly.<br />There is no better way to learn about single malts than to take samples of several malts and then taste and compare them using this book. After you're tasted a couple of dozen malts you should be able to get a good sense of what's going on and be able to go on from there.<br />A good way to do this is to pick a couple of classic malts from each category, say a couple of lowlands, a couple of highlands or Speysides, and a couple of Islays, and taste them alongside each other with this book. Some of the malts are just so unique or special that they deserve tasting by themselves--as in the case of Clynelish and Highland Park, or Caol Isla and Talisker, or the often overlooked but wonderful lowland malt, Littlemill, with its sweet cocoanut, English toffee, and creme de caramel flavors.<br />Well, I could go on for a while about interesting things to do for tastings, but I will leave the rest of that to you, hopefully by way of this book, except for one last recommendation. The great Victorian connoisseur and single-malt scotch authority Professor Shaftsbury considered mixing together some Clynelish and Longmorn to be possibly the greatest drink in the world. So you might give it a try sometime and see what you think. Good luck and happy tasting!	2002-11-29
1328914:US	45193257	R22F798FMD3KKY	0918343038	776178940	The Lost Days of Agatha Christie	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Interesting subject	I was surprised to find out that Ms. Christie herself had a mystery surrounding her disappearance in 1926, so I was interested to find this book. But I would have called it, \\"The Agatha and the Ecstasy.\\"	2002-11-24
1333015:US	45193257	R3C7JXLI3N2NCA	0968368808	650260793	Plastic Surgery - Penis Enhancement Surgery - A Self Help Guide for Men	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A few comments	Unfortunately, I have the opposite problem from what's discussed in this book, and it hasn't exactly had a salutary effect on my s_x life, despite what guys might think. On those unfortunate occasions when I've been in intimate circumstances with a woman, as soon as they get a look at the size of the ol' paducher, they grab their clothes and run screaming in terror from the room. I'm now looking for a good plastic surgeon to see about getting penis reduction surgery. So for all you guys out there who are considering enlargment operations, remember, it's possible to have too much of a good thing.	2002-11-20
1333047:US	45193257	R2GXV4T4FOFO6M	0967330602	536886837	You Want Me to do What? An Illustrated Book on the Joys of Fellatio: Explicit Techniques	Books	5	20	24	N	N	"Fellatio" Hornblower says check it out	Speaking from personal experience, the art of fellatio seems to be a lost art on the American dating scene. I gave this book to my significant other, and she immediately responded with The Joys of Cun_ilingus by Violet Blue (also available on Amazon). I have no idea what she was implying by that, but in any case, these two books have certainly improved our awareness of each other's sexual shortcomings.	2002-11-20
1333453:US	45193257	R19Z7EV6UZUER7	0743428587	543581496	Twisted Roots	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Better than I thought	Based on the title, I thought this was a medical-dental text on how to perform difficult root-canal procedures, but silly me, it's actually a novel. Who would have guessed?<br />After looking at it for a while, I agree with the other reviewers here that this book is far more interesting than I originally thought, and I plan to read the rest of it while sitting in my dentist's chair getting that overdue root canal done.	2002-11-20
1336562:US	45193257	R1QA7JRZOI0K1D	0071383832	897217189	The Fat Flush Plan	Books	5	5	19	N	N	Thin may be in, but fat is where it's at!	As I'm pretty \\"flush with fat\\" these days myself, I thought I would try this book. It really helped me achieve my weight-loss goal getting from 550 down to 499 pounds. Buy this book and you'll be able to flush those pounds down the drain like I did. I feel so much better now, and also I no longer show up as a gravitational anomaly on NASA earth satellite photos.	2002-11-18
1338186:US	45193257	R1YMY6KLPDBODC	0571167497	66808892	The Madness of George III	Books	4	6	24	N	N	Who says history has to be boring?	I once read that, in addition to his unfortunate condition of porphyria, the mental effects of which became the basis for this screenplay, King George also had an anal fistula. Perhaps this explains his dyspeptic attitude toward the American colonies, since we were such a pain in the a__, and he already, as a result of the fistula, had plenty of them.<br />I also learned once that the French King, Louis XIV, used to hold court with his advisors and other notables while receiving his daily enema, thereby making him sort of a public \\"enema of the people.\\" No wonder the French monarchy had so many problems.<br />It's amazing how much of history seems to relate to the proctological vagaries of its rulers. In George III's case, because of his unfortunate anal fistula, one could say it perhaps ultimately came down to a problem with the bottom of the man at the top.	2002-11-16
1338349:US	45193257	RG1YF2G8QY326	0691015147	146608781	Prolegomena to the Study of Greek Religion (Mythos Books)	Books	5	4	15	N	N	Indispensible classic	This book is an indispensible classic for anybody interested in Greek religion. I was considering following up Prof. Harrison's weighty tome by writing the sequel: \\"Avgolemeno to the Study of Greek Soup Making,\\" but I couldn't find an interested publisher, for some reason.<br />*Note: \\"Avgolemeno\\" is a well-known Greek, lemon-flavored soup.	2002-11-16
1338412:US	45193257	R2T89W0WOJQQZK	0609806750	663466847	God's Diet: A Short & Simple Way to Eat Naturally, Lose Weight, and Live a Healthier Life	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The food of the Gods?	I didn't think this book was going to be much help, because I figured \\"God's diet\\" meant you'd be eating manna from Heaven 3 times a day, 365 days a year, for 40 years. Fortunately, the book's diet is quite a bit more diverse than that.<br />Still, I bet that manna thing would make for a great crash diet sometime.	2002-11-16
1338416:US	45193257	R2ELOA2LWN0J0Q	0685384497	229850537	Pentjak Silat	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent	The only book on Silat published in the U.S. up to this time, Draeger gives an excellent overview of the many different styles that comprise this fascinating fighting art. He seems to have gone to considerable trouble to see as many of the different styles as possible, visiting many villages and islands to seek out the different styles, probably quite an undertaking back in the 70's when this was written. A unique volume on an obscure art form not seen much in the west and a worthwhile addition to your martial arts library.<br />On a personal note, I only know of one Pentjak Silat instructor in the U.S. at that time. Back in the late 60's, there was a Dutchman by the name of Rudy Ter Linden in Los Angelos who was teaching Silat. He did an interview in Black Belt or Karate Illustrated Magazine, I can't recall which, and he demo'd several of the forms.<br />The interesting thing about their katas is that they don't all end in one place, so they can be strung together in one long form if you want,sort of interesting. Anyway, Rudy eventually closed down his school and went back to college in L.A. to finish his degree. He was supposed to have several young black belts who went off on their own to open their own schools, but I never heard anything further on this.<br />*Note: Since I wrote the above a year ago, I did some web research and discovered that Rudy has unfortunately passed away, although he couldn't have been that old. There were some nice tributes to him and to what a great teacher he was, and I was sorry to hear he was gone, because he was a true pioneer in the teaching and dessemination of the Indonesian martial arts. He had gone on to develop his own style that was a synthesis or four or five different styles of Pentjak Silat. Rudy made an important contribution to the martial arts and although I never had the oppportunity to meet him, obviously he will be missed as a teacher and as a human being.	2002-11-16
1338418:US	45193257	R21BIJAJZZB7S	0816022186	145068659	The Cultural Atlas of Mesopotamia and the Ancient Near East	Books	5	70	73	N	Y	Best cultural atlas of Mesopotamia	Although I'm a biologist by education, I'm something of a history buff and I've purchased 6 or 7 big atlases of world history and cultural atlases of the world lately (you can't have too many atlases in your life), and this one is the best atlas on Mesopotomia that I've seen. It's well-written and has lots of interesting information, but it's major strength is all the beautiful color photos of art, artifacts, buildings, and other cultural items from the many ancient sites, along with a number of maps. The author does a fine job of discussing the importance of many of the major archeological sites and their history. You'll hear a lot about these in the book, some of which, although I've read a fair amount of archeology and ancient history, I still wasn't that familiar with, so the author knows his stuff. All in all a beautifully illustrated, well-written, educational, and even reasonably priced book given the overall quality and features.<br />While we're on the subject, another very accessible and interesting book is Prof. Jean Bottero's Everyday Life in Ancient Mesopotomia. The ancient Mesopotamians come across as practical, no-nonsense people who, in contrast to the ancient Egyptians, weren't especially religious and believed in living life in the here and now as best one could. Although they did have a religion, it was mostly for propitiating various gods and deities who they hoped would bestow their blessings on them in their present life. There was a concept of the afterlife, but it was basically a dark, dingy, netherworld where not much happened, it seems, and they regarded the present life as far preferable to it.<br />Just another suggestion for further reading in case you're interested.	2002-11-16
1342371:US	45193257	R36VNYYBODNBTB	0696110253	892891166	Complete Guide to Home Taxidermy	Books	5	4	16	N	N	Taxing but still good	Taxidermy is an under-appreciated art, and this book helped me learn something about it. As someone once perceptively observed, the difference between a gigolo and taxidermist is the order in which the mounting vs. the stuffing occurs. After reading this book, you will never get these two confused ever again.<br />The only problem now is that since my two cats and my black Lab retriever saw this book, they now hide behind the furniture and under my bed whenever they see me coming. Oh well, if they don't lighten up pretty soon maybe they will have something to worry about.	2002-11-12
1342877:US	45193257	R1JQ29FILXOHY1	0967508207	168535532	Confessions of a Reformed Road Warrior	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Teaches essential skills	This book helped me to become much more aware of many issues relating to driving, including improving some of my skills, and also increasing my awareness of some of my own bad driving habits. But really, people who don't like the way I drive should just stay off the sidewalk.	2002-11-12
1343150:US	45193257	R265H617R00QNW	1563381427	471298719	Wrestling With the Word: Christian Preaching from the Hebrew Bible	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Very scholarly	I just wanted to mention that the famous line in the Yeats poem, the one that goes:<br />And what rough beast, its hour come at last,<br />Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?<br />was probably a reference to my poor uncle Ted with a bad case of the scabies. He's prone to skin rashes of various origins but of almost Biblical proportions. But the ones caused by those damn \\"crotch crickets\\" are the worst.<br />Other than the minor omission of the above point, I found this to be an excellent and scholarly book on the subject.	2002-11-12
1343163:US	45193257	RRVQAPHFRKDZP	0944928021	693204623	Medieval Punishment - Torture and Executions in Europe - 1100-1600	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Deja-vu and the kitchen sink, too	This book was like deja-vu for me, because I realized the company I worked for, which sells high-end gay and heterosexual Bondage and Discipline and Sadomasochism items and paraphernalia, must have used this book to train its managers. Highly recommended for formerly occupationally bewildered employees like me.	2002-11-12
1343421:US	45193257	RS23W1WJU1CI5	0452281334	466906453	Lesbian Sex Secrets for Men: What Every Man Wants to Know About Making Love to a Woman and Never Asks	Books	4	7	24	N	N	Life-changing	This book helped me to completely reassess and ultimately come to grips with my true s_xual identity. I've apparently been a Lesbian trapped in a man's body all my life. As soon as I finish my s_x change operation in Mexico (I had to get it done on the cheap since my medical insurance wouldn't pay for it, for some reason), I'll be back in the States living the life of libidinous Lesbian love and wild abandon I always dreamed of. Highly recommended for those men who, like me, previously suffered from delusions of gender.	2002-11-12
1344970:US	45193257	RGWN9DNWIAKDZ	0060937130	544649813	Dynamics of Faith (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	116	121	N	N	Great little classic	Although my philosophical interests are mostly in 20-century analytical thought and the philosophy of science, I've still read my share of theologists, including Kierkegaard, Barth, Bultmann, Rosenzweig, Marcel, Mauritain, Buber, Berdyaef, and Niebuhr, and Tillich is perhaps the greatest of them all. So I still have considerable respect for Tillich, and I thought I'd make a few comments about that.<br />This little book (only about 140 pages) is still packed with much of the best that Tillich's subtle and profound mind had to offer. The chapter, \\"The Truth of Faith,\\" is probably the greatest essay on the attempt to reconcile faith with reason, and how an intelligent man can be religious, ever written, a subject which goes back at least to St. Augustine's The City of God over 1500 years ago.<br />Tillich's basic idea is that faith can become a transformative and even transcendent force in people's lives. As one reviewer here put it so perceptively, \\"Faith is creative precisely because we act even though we cannot be entirely sure of the outcome. This is the Faith that creates science and art, and produces miracles in everyday life. When that Faith is attached to life's ultimate concern, it becomes sacred and holy.\\"<br />Overall, a great book from a great philosopher that itself perhaps transcends its subject matter.	2002-11-11
1346737:US	45193257	R1U61P41V1MKF9	0399507558	446772705	How to Be Your Own Butcher	Books	5	4	11	N	N	The perfect gift	I have a friend who's a very nice guy, but I admit he's a little weird and very hard to figure out good birthday gifts for. I gave him this for his birthday recently and he loved it, which is perhaps not too surprising in retrospect, since his favorite movie is the Texas Chain-Saw Massacre.	2002-11-09
1348782:US	45193257	R3P6VS52XPZTOK	0877285160	858770965	The Book of Lies	Books	4	13	19	N	N	The "Great Beast" at large	Even the title of this formerly out of print book is refreshing, since the writers of most metaphysical and spiritual texts usually believe they know the absolute truth. However, as the book's back cover states, this is not your typical mystical or philosophical treatise. Scholars have written that it is both \\"stupendously idiotic and amazingly clever.\\" After reading much of it, I can only agree, especially when Crowley says things like this in the chapter entitled, \\"The Duck-Billed Platypus:\\"<br />\\"Dirt is matter in the wrong place.<br />Thought is mind in the wrong place.<br />Matter is mind, so thought is dirt.\\"<br />I can only agree with Crowley on this, but I would paraphrase it slightly to say, \\"Matter is mind, and mind is dirty thoughts,\\" considering how much more often humans probably think about matters carnal than matters spiritual.<br />One useful feature of the book is the commentaries accompanying each chapter. These are very helpful in interpreting Crowley's more arcane references. For example, in the chapter \\"The Blind Webster,\\" the explanation is \\"The 21st key of the Tarot is called \\"The Universe,\\" and refers to the letter tau, the Phallus in manifestation; hence the title, \\"The Bind Webster.\\" \\" This is interesting, but I think a more accurate description, if I'm interpreting this correctly, would be \\"the one-eyed trouser snake,\\" rather than \\"the Blind Webster.\\" But one thing for sure is that it isn't \\"the far-sighted Phallus,\\" since it seems to be particularly near-sighted about the short-term consequences of its actions.<br />Finally, there's the chapter \\"Sodomy Apples,\\" which I naturally assumed would be a relative of the smaller, well-known dingle-berry, but silly me, according to the commentary, its actually about, among other things, \\"a practical counsel to mystics not to break up their dryness by relaxing their austerities.\\" Well, I'm glad they clarified that. On the other hand, given Crowley's predilection to paradoxically assert the opposite in this book, if you take the antonyms of, or reverse the meanings of, the words in this description, it becomes, \\"a practical counsel to mystics to \\"integrate their wetness by tensing their luxuries.\\" \\" I can only hope that someday I can attain to such an enviable state of being and spiritual enlightenment.<br />I thought I'd leave you with one more thought of Crowley's. As I was originally trained as a physiologist, I found his assertion that one should sleep in a hay loft so one can inhale the healthful vapors from all the cow manure to be especially thought provoking, if not physically strenuous, especially considering how cold your typically drafty old barn probably is.<br />Well, as Crowley himself says in the chapter, \\"Onion Peelings,\\" The Universe is the Practical Joke of the General at the Expense of the Particular.\\" On the other hand, I think it can be more correctly said of this interesting book that it is the practical joke of the particular at the expense of the general. On that note, I leave it to our gentle reader to decide for himself about Crowley's paradoxical little book.this book, if you take the antonyms of, or reverse the meanings of, the words in this description, it becomes, \\"a practical counsel to mystics to \\"integrate their wetness by tensing their luxuries.\\" \\" I can only hope that someday I can attain to such an enviable state of being and spiritual enlightenment.<br />I thought I'd leave you with one more thought of Crowley's. As I was originally trained as a physiologist, I found his assertion that one should sleep in a hay loft so one can inhale the healthful vapors from all the cow manure to be especially thought provoking, if not physically strenuous, especially considering how cold your typically drafty old barn probably is.<br />Well, as Crowley himself says in the chapter, \\"Onion Peelings,\\" The Universe is the Practical Joke of the General at the Expense of the Particular.\\" On the other hand, I think it can be more correctly said of this interesting book that it is the practical joke of the particular at the expense of the general. On that note, I leave it to our gentle reader to decide for himself about Crowley's paradoxical little book.	2002-11-07
1351410:US	45193257	R20G2CQ2SJ523M	0966914902	192456598	The New Sensual Massage	Books	5	11	21	N	N	Getting the kinks out, and then some	The editorial review says this book has \\"Stunning illustrations, precisely matched to actual massage photos.\\" I found this reassuring, since you probably wouldn't want to get mixed up and use the wrong massage technique on the wrong part of the body. For example, my partner has one called \\"the jackhammer,\\" and I can tell you, you wouldn't want to apply that one to the same place she applies one of my other favorites, \\"the velvet buzz-saw.\\" On the other hand, perhaps in the area of massage it's \\"different strokes for different folks,\\" just as in many other areas of life. Well, whatever your taste is in massage, I found this book to be full of many useful techniques. Now if someone could just publish a good book on how to massage my bruised ego.	2002-11-05
1353799:US	45193257	R1YYZWLXFC5ZW5	0804717117	615794550	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A few comments	I previously wrote a more extensive review of the Andrew George edition of the Epic of Gilgamesh, but I was looking at this version, and there was one thing I liked that Kovacs did, so I thought I would mention it.<br />In the introduction, on page xxxiv or xxiv, if I recall, Kovacs has a very nice chart showing the chronological history of all the versions we know of for this epic, which is a couple of dozen, ranging from the first known versions around 2700 BC in Uruk down to the Syriac versions more than two millenia later. Although he discusses the various versions in his book in his introduction, George doesn't include this nice timeline and chronology.<br />The Epic of Gilgamesh is notable for the fact that it's considered the oldest text understandable by a modern reader without special knowledge, and it's also the most ancient text for which we have an author attribution. Around 1200-1300 BC, a Mesopotamian by the name of Sun-Liq-Unnini compiled the well-known \\"Standard Version\\" of the epic. He wasn't actually the \\"author\\" of the text, but it seems likely he was steeped in the historical tradition and the different versions of the text which had come down over the years in both the Sumerian and Akkadian traditions, and he seems to have gone to some trouble to gather and compile the best versions of the various stories and legends about Gilgamesh in his \\"edition,\\" which became the most widespread and popular version.<br />We also know that he was employed as an exorcist, an important job in Mesopotamian society, since they were called on for everything from driving out evil spirits in the ill and sick, to making sure dwellings and new buildings were free of evil spirits, to blessing farmland that was about to be planted for the new season.<br />I found the Epic of Gilgamesh surprisingly accessible for a modern reader. This is mainly due to the character of Gilgamesh himself, since his concerns are easily understandable to a reader of any day and age. He is motivated by several concerns, such as his fear of mortality and death, the ephemerality of life on earth, the desire to accomplish heroic feats to prove himself worthy of immortality, to protect his friends and loved ones, and to destroy evil and preserve the good.<br />Overall, a surprisingly interesting tale that was much better than I was expecting, and that was as accessible as has been claimed for such an ancient text.tivated by several concerns, such as his fear of mortality and death, the ephemerality of life on earth, the desire to accomplish heroic feats to prove himself worthy of immortality, to protect his friends and loved ones, and to destroy evil and preserve the good.<br />Overall, a surprisingly interesting tale that was much better than I was expecting, and that was as accessible as has been claimed for such an ancient text.	2002-11-03
1354488:US	45193257	R27M8PFCMFAQI7	0966492439	934238991	Five Minutes to Orgasm Every Time You Make Love: Female Orgasm Made Simple	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It worked for me	I bought this book hoping it would help me prolong my time to orgasm from 30 seconds to more like 5 minutes, as it says in the title. I'm happy to report it worked like a charm and my lover and I can now have sex at a much more leisurely pace compared to before.	2002-11-02
1358823:US	45193257	R2BME97FHH2CAN	0520227573	338621790	Augustine of Hippo: A Biography (New Edition, with an Epilogue)	Books	4	3	51	N	N	A ponderous classic and author	As a result of his having ballooned up to 425 pounds because of a serious endocrinologoical problem, Augustine was actually known during his lifetime as \\"Augustine the Hippo.\\" Out of respect to the great Christian thinker and philosopher, they later reverted to the original version of his name.<br />But Augustine's obesity problem aside, The City of God is certainly a weighty and profound volume itself, and I'd like to say that in consideration of the philosophical contributions he made in this book, I have no problem throwing my own not inconsiderable bulk behind it. Also, I suspect that Augustine was actually beatified for founding the first weight-control clinic, certainly an important contribution in and of itself.	2002-10-29
1358845:US	45193257	R3BFNGIJ0NPF40	0764112295	141570135	Hermit Crabs (Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	5	13	26	N	N	A surprise	I must say I was a little puzzled by the title of this book. A \\"pet Hermit crab\\" sounds like an oxymoron--after all, a hermit is supposed to be anti-social, right? So why would you want one for a pet--especially one that has big, sharp claws? Well, I could be wrong, perhaps there's a little bit of the Hermit crab in all of us--the apparent loner who yearns to be the popular social butterfly and just needs a little bit of encouragement to come out of his or her shell, so to speak, to become the life of the party.<br />So I decided to take the plunge, and I bought myself a pet Hermit crab. So far things are going swimmingly for me and the little guy. We spend evenings together walking the beach, hanging out, and listening to our favorite rock n' roll and pop tunes. I discovered he loves the Beattles hit, Octopus's Garden, and of course, he's a big fan of Herman and the Hermits, along with most of the British Invasion. Hermit crabs do have their advantages, not the least of which is they have built-in protection against rising real-estate prices, something he points out to me quite often, since we live in a beach-front condo and I have yet to purchase my own home. Oh well, we're looking for a shell that'll fit me but it's hard to find anything big enough.<br />Anyway, he really is a pretty cool pet, I have to admit, and I can certainly recommend one for someone who wants a low-maintenance, inexpensive, and surprisingly with-it and companionable little pet.	2002-10-29
1359077:US	45193257	R2QHMZJXH171O8	052180633X	268631019	The Compact NASA Atlas of the Solar System	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Beautifully done, good to excellent coverage	As an amateur astronomer, my interest tends more to deep-sky objects rather than planetary astronomy, but I spent some time looking at this atlas, and it really is a striking catalog of our current knowledge of the solar system. The atlas contains beautiful closeups of every planet except Pluto, although the coverage for Venus isn't that extensive, but then since Venus is mostly clouds, I don't know how much would be served by that, unlike the cloud-cover of Jupiter, which shows many stable bands and also the pink and red spots. There are also maps of a number of the moons of Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, allowing you to see their heavily marred and cratered surfaces, which are very reminiscent of Mercury or our moon.<br />The atlas only contains maps for the large Galileian satellites of Jupiter and the same for the larger, closer moons of Saturn, but I don't know if this is because of limitations in the spacecraft that took the photos or the distances involved from the spacecraft to the moons. The maps of Mars are perhaps the most interesting in terms of surface details, and features like the enormous, 17-mile high and 400-mile across volcano, Nix Olympica, and the great gorge on Mars, really stand out. Another thing that was interesting was the discovery of the first asteroid with its own small planet. The atlas features over 150 maps, 214 color illustrations and a gazetteer. Overall, this is a stunning and beautifully done atlas of the solar system, which, despite its not being cheap, should still be of interest to amateurs and professionals alike.	2002-10-29
1359089:US	45193257	RMFGVNIDXUW20	1842220586	256650243	the Complete Encyclopedia of Soccer	Books	4	0	1	N	N	What ever happened to soccer bumper stickers?	The cultural importance of soccer in America was first brought home to me back in the early 70's with those classic bumper stickers such as, \\"It takes leather balls to play soccer,\\" and \\"Soccer's played on grass.\\" Well, I don't know if soccer ever really took off as a sport in America, but they did have the best bumper stickers of any sport around back then.	2002-10-29
1360311:US	45193257	R2D9SER8G596AC	0140201092	460882039	AN Outline of European Architecture (Pelican)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Outstanding introduction	I've read dozens of books on the history of architecture, and this is the best introduction to the subject I've ever encountered, despite the fact that it is now over half a century old. I used this book intensively on a three-month trip to western and eastern Europe some years ago, and it was a great help in appreciating all the many important buildings we encountered, especially the Gothic cathedrals and early Renaissance Italian architecture. As the back cover says, Sir Nicholas is reckoned one of the most stimulating writers on architecture alive, and I would have to agree with that. His great enthusiasm for his subject is contagious, and his descriptions of important buildings are often nothing short of inspired. This is truly a great book by a great scholar.	2002-10-28
1362559:US	45193257	RWFCU52L5S1S6	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Who's her podiatrist?	From the title I initially thought this book was about strange messages from that certain place where the sun don't shine to the rest of your body, but it's actually a very different sort of book. Still, I have enough trouble getting my teenage daughter's meaning correct, so the last thing on my mind is worrying about \\"mutant meanings from downunder.\\" But Dr. Morgan went 1400 miles on a walkabout with a group of Australian aborigines, and whether the revelations in this book are true or not, I at least have to admire her podiatric fortitude, since I count myself lucky these days if I can just make it to the fridge and back one more time to score another Foster's.	2002-10-26
1362634:US	45193257	R1A33JLZ7OT7RT	1573440280	579383001	The Ultimate Guide to Anal Sex for Women	Books	5	16	34	N	N	An eye opener	My significant other left this book on the coffee table for me a couple of weeks ago. Even someone with my admittedly limited imagination has no trouble figuring out what this means. Sometimes I think women's lib has gone too far in this country.<br />Well, that was my initial reaction when I first got the book. On second thought, now that I've read some of the sections, including ones such as \\"Anal Beads,\\" \\"Vibrators,\\" \\"Masturbation and Anal Eroticism,\\" \\"Bulb Syringe Enemas,\\" and \\"General Tips for a Safe Enema,\\" maybe I was a little too hasty in my original judgment. Maybe this is just what our flagging sex life needs to spice things up a little. I'll let you know how it works out in the end.<br />Incidently, I once read that Louis XIV used to take his daily enema while holding court with his advisors and other notables, perhaps making him the first public \\"enema of the people,\\" so to speak. No wonder the French monarchy had so many problems.	2002-10-26
1362828:US	45193257	R3RPUDMC3XWEY1	0316845183	887368262	The Art of SpeedReading People: How to Size People Up and Speak Their Language	Books	5	8	9	N	N	What if you're dyslexic?	When I first saw this book, I only read the first part of the title, \\"The Art of Speedreading People.\\" Being a very literal-minded reader, I originally thought this book was on the art and paintings of very fast readers, a fascinating subject, I thought. Surely someone whose reading speed is far beyond that of us mere mortals would have a unique artistic vision of life. I was then surprised and somewhat disappointed to find it was actually about how to size people up quickly. Silly me. But despite my initial confusion, I found this was still a useful book. I've always felt that people should know each other better before they become friends or lovers and then use and abuse each other. I recommend this book for all those wanting to improve their lagging social skills in these fast-paced times of instant everything--from instant coffee to instant gratification to instant relationships.	2002-10-26
1362996:US	45193257	R2Y9TSS0JMN8DF	0967174007	27717769	So You're Going Bald : A Man's Guide to the Art of PowerBalding	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The baldfaced truth	I was expecting this to be a sequel to Eugene Ionesco's The Bald Soprano, but silly me, it's actually about being bald, which has nothing to do with the famous French playwright's play, despite its title. Nor does the play have anything to do with the recent popular cable TV drama, since it was written several decades before the show premiered, even though James Gandolfini looks like a pretty good \\"Bald Soprano\\" to me. But then Nietzsche's book, The Gay Science, has nothing to do with the Gay/Lesbian scene, either.<br />As someone who's hairline is receding even faster than his stock portfolio (which is saying something these days), or whose scalp is being denuded faster than the Brazilian rainforest at an industrial defoliants convention, I found this to be a valuable book on how to cope with baldness. You can't have too many books about balding in your library, I always say, and this one is chock full of valuable advice. Highly recommended.	2002-10-26
1364298:US	45193257	RFCDWEFRQ1P8J	0892819944	3335186	The Crack in the Cosmic Egg: New Constructs of Mind and Reality	Books	4	53	76	N	N	What's next, a cosmic omelette?	I thought from the title that this book told the story of my less than illustrious birth, but silly me, it's actually a philosophy book. By way of perhaps egging you on to crack this book, I would say it's actually a pretty decent one, and the author discusses the ideas of writers as diverse as Teilhard de Chardin, Paul Tillich, C.G. Jung, Jesus, Carlos Castaneda, and Jean Piaget to show how we may envision a different existence for ourselves and a different future for the human race.	2002-10-25
1365518:US	45193257	R1ZARBKU82VGZY	1864501227	589814556	Lonely Planet New Zealand (New Zealand, 10th ed)	Books	5	47	51	N	N	New Zealand--or bust!	I looked at and compared this to all the other guides from Frommer's, Eyewitness, Footprint, Rough, Insight, Moon, and Fodor's, and I thought this one was the best.<br />I used this guide on an intensive, 3-week trip to New Zealand several years ago in which I drove over 6000 kilometers and got to just about every part of the country except Ninety-Mile Beach on the tip of the north island. I visited spots ranging from Stewart Island, Doubtful and Milford Sound, and Queenstown in the south, to the Coromandel Peninsula in the east, to the Franz-Josef glacier and the small western town of Greymouth in the west, to Lake Taupo and the capital city Auckland in the north. I crossed the southern Alps several times, and got to just about every major city and town, and I found the book very useful and accurate and a very valuable resource on my trip.<br />New Zealand is one of the most beautiful and delightful places you can visit, and there is something here for everybody. There is still quite a lot of wildlife, and in the south I saw lots of Tui birds, who are like myna birds in that they can immitate just about any noise, and shellducks, which are larger than any American ducks I've seen. One of them even raced me in my car on a road crossing the Alps for a while, until he surprised me by flying under my car and losing all his feathers. Oh well, I hope he grew back those feathers.<br />If you're into wildlife, another fun activity is to see the little blue penguins and the yellow-eyed penguins in the southeast coastal town of Oamaru. But watch out for those big shellducks. The big Kea parrots in the southern mountains are surprisingly bold. They come right up to you and you can get great pictures. A famous kea was the one that lived in a park in Sydney, Australia. This might be the only world-famous bird I've ever heard of. He would let the air out of automobile tires while people watched and laughed, which he seemed to do for the fun of it. As the New Zealanders say, they're cheeky little buggers.<br />Another thing not to miss is the New Zealand Wildlife Refuge on the main road north of Wellington on the way to Auckland. Several of the other things that I enjoyed that I learned about first from the book were (on the south island) the Te Anau glow- worm caves, the big boat tour of Doubtful Sound, the boat tour of Milford Sound (the wettest place on earth at sea level, with 25 feet of rain per year), and (on the north island) the Maori cultural town of Rotorua, which smells like rotten eggs everywhere because of all the volcanic steam vents containing sulfur dioxide. In fact, the steam comes out of the ground just about all over the city.<br />If you're the adventurous type, don't miss Queenstown in the south, the self-styled (and rightly so) adventure capital of the world. There you can do things like bungee-jump from a helicopter, and fly this interesting plane around which is tethered to a central pole. I don't know how many people do those things, but a popular attraction here is a jet-boat tour up one of the rivers. The aerial tramway in Queenstown up to the top of a local mountain gives you a spectacular view of the entire area. There is a decent restaurant at the top, which makes for a popular dining spot with a great view in the evening.<br />On the north island, another interesting and fun thing I did in Auckland was to take the Rangitoto Island tour in Auckland Bay on my last day there, which takes you around this small, volcanic island in the middle of the bay. Also Waiheke Island made for an interesting overnight stay in Auckland bay before flying out the next day. Kelly Tarkington's Arctic Experience is worth seeing. And last but not least, Auckland has some surprisingly good restaurants and dining.<br />Overall, an excellent and well-written guide and worth the price. New Zealand is one of the best and most enjoyable countries I've ever visited, and this guide was an important part of that experience on my trip.'re cheeky little buggers.<br />Another thing not to miss is the New Zealand Wildlife Refuge on the main road north of Wellington on the way to Auckland. Several of the other things that I enjoyed that I learned about first from the book were (on the south island) the Te Anau glow- worm caves, the big boat tour of Doubtful Sound, the boat tour of Milford Sound (the wettest place on earth at sea level, with 25 feet of rain per year), and (on the north island) the Maori cultural town of Rotorua, which smells like rotten eggs everywhere because of all the volcanic steam vents containing sulfur dioxide. In fact, the steam comes out of the ground just about all over the city.<br />If you're the adventurous type, don't miss Queenstown in the south, the self-styled (and rightly so) adventure capital of the world. There you can do things like bungee-jump from a helicopter, and fly this interesting plane around which is tethered to a central pole. I don't know how many people do those things, but a popular attraction here is a jet-boat tour up one of the rivers. The aerial tramway in Queenstown up to the top of a local mountain gives you a spectacular view of the entire area. There is a decent restaurant at the top, which makes for a popular dining spot with a great view in the evening.<br />On the north island, another interesting and fun thing I did in Auckland was to take the Rangitoto Island tour in Auckland Bay on my last day there, which takes you around this small, volcanic island in the middle of the bay. Also Waiheke Island made for an interesting overnight stay in Auckland bay before flying out the next day. Kelly Tarkington's Arctic Experience is worth seeing. And last but not least, Auckland has some surprisingly good restaurants and dining.<br />Overall, an excellent and well-written guide and worth the price. New Zealand is one of the best and most enjoyable countries I've ever visited, and this guide was an important part of that experience on my trip.	2002-10-24
1367202:US	45193257	R2AAUAQKCJAHLA	1560534524	73842892	The Doctors Book of Humorous Quotations, 1e	Books	5	2	6	N	N	My funny bone hurts	There is no doubt that humans are the funniest animals on the planet, and appropos of the medical theme of this humorous book, I thought I would make one comment in that vein.<br />Yes, we humans are pretty funny creatures, but what would you expect of a mammal that actually has a \\"funny bone?\\" I'm referring to the upper-arm bone, which is actually named the \\"humerus.\\" Well, it's actually spelled a little differently, but only by a couple of letters, and that's probably because anatomists didn't usually win first place in their spelling bees in school.<br />Well, I don't know if the hip bone is connected to the thigh bone myself, but I did learn how to spell way back when. Anyway, this book is sure to tickle the humerus or funny bone in all of us, and it just goes to show you that although seriousness may be only skin-deep, funny is truly to the bone.	2002-10-22
1367294:US	45193257	R17FG30ZU47FWW	0871319357	236136883	Soupy Sez!: My Zany Life and Times	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Duck Soupy?	There's no doubt Soupy Sales is truly an American original, and I just had one comment to make about that, relating to how he got kicked off the air for a year back in the 60's.<br />He was angry at the producer of his show for some reason, and so at the end of the hour-long show, where Soupy says goodbye to all the kiddies, he holds up his hand, and says, (I think I'm recalling it more or less correctly, but cut me a little slack, since it's been almost 40 years). Anyway, at that point he said: \\"This is for White Fang, this is for Pookie, and this is for our producer,\\" as he ticked them off on his fingers.<br />Unfortunately for both Soupy and the producer, he curled each finger down as he did this, leaving only his middle finger sticking up at that point, and was now basically giving his boss the finger on national TV, for all the little kiddies and their now outraged parents to see.<br />I read the show immediately got thousands of calls from angry parents all over the country, and that this led to his one-year long hiatus from the air-waves.<br />Anyway, that was probably one of the most outrageous moments in kiddy TV ever, and it probably took someone as funny, feisty, and as off-the-wall as Soupy to bring it to us. I was delighted to find Soupy is still around and kicking at age 75, and that he could bring this engaging and funny story of his life to us.	2002-10-22
1367362:US	45193257	R352KX7469JPZC	0446519081	140809440	The Tenth Insight: Holding the Vision	Books	4	2	5	N	N	The apex of spiritual reward--for 15 bucks!	As basically a spiritually benighted Neanderthal whose only soul is on the bottom of his shoes, I would be happy to have even one spiritual revelation in life, but the estimable Mr. Redfield has had 10. I can only hope that sometime I can ascend from the spiritual nadir of my present circumstances to the enviable empyrean heights of our enlightened author. In my book, both Bo Derek and the author rate a 10.	2002-10-22
1368789:US	45193257	R2DI9ANFYCDP13	B00005VG1G	86453982	The art of sexual lovemaking, a guide to a happier sex-love life for married couples	Books	5	12	18	N	N	First-rate	I found this book much more useful than the previous guide I read on the subject, \\"The Art of Non-Sexual Lovemaking: A Guide to Platonic Relationships,\\" by Ima Prude, which wasn't nearly as effective for me and my partner in helping us work through our sexual issues.	2002-10-21
1368846:US	45193257	R1ZRBDJLYRQ2Z0	085030301X	715260109	Astrological Counselling: A Basic Guide to Astrological Themes in Person to Person Understanding	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Star-crossed?	As a result of this insightful book, my significant other and I decided to finally call it quits on a several-year long but tempestuous relationship. This book showed us what we've known all along--that we're completely incompatible with each other, since I'm a Sagittarius with the moon in Gemini, and she's a Scorpio with the moon in Taurus. Also, I have all squares and oppositions in my planetary relationships, and she's all trines. All this technical natal-chart jargon just means that we're the astrological equivalent of trying to mix oil and water. Also, I'm into bondage and discipline, but she's into sadomasochism stuff. This book was indispensable in helping us to finally acknowledge the obvious.	2002-10-21
1368870:US	45193257	RVG3GFEVMZ4V7	0876305427	874640239	How to Overcome Premature Ejaculation	Books	5	8	14	N	N	This book really works	I gave this book to a younger friend when I overheard his girlfriend talking about their checkered sex life recently. When she referred to him as the \\"Mennen speed stick,\\" I knew just the thing to recommend for his PE problem. So I gave him this book, and it worked like a charm.	2002-10-21
1368928:US	45193257	R2VOT4WZ9U62X2	0375708383	434384867	Coleridge: Darker Reflections, 1804-1834	Books	5	3	5	N	N	In-depth analysis	Few people know that Coleridge followed the great achievement of \\"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\\" with a cookbook describing his experiences and adventures in backyard barbecuing that was equally brilliant, entitled \\"The Rind of the Ancient Marinator.\\" Coleridge also includes his famous recipes on Yorkshire pudding, haggis, and steak and kidney pie. Today unfortunately out of print, it's worth finding by all backyard barbecue enthusiasts who want the inside scoop on the lost art of British barbecue.	2002-10-21
1368947:US	45193257	RAAIYDMRX9HQE	0517451271	431050249	The Fold-Out Book of the Human Body: Classic 1906 Edition (A Bonanza pop-up book)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Pop goes the...what?	I got two of these excellent atlases, one for my son and one for my daughter, to play with. I had to take them away when they began redesigning the pop-out features to correspond to some of the photos in my medical teratology text showing men and women with variously mutated s_x organs.	2002-10-21
1369006:US	45193257	R3NHXFP4R23ORS	0060196149	147649782	John Major: The Autobiography	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A major-league biography	I followed up this fine bio with \\"John Minor, the \\"Story of the Forgotten Little Brother,\\" which deals with the more obscure and self-effacing, but equally admirable, younger brother. Too bad he didn't win the election instead, but then people would have made jokes about Great Britain being a minor power with a Minor leader. :-)	2002-10-21
1369163:US	45193257	R3O62SR50FWF9U	0891096957	943367837	Parenting Teens With Love & Logic: Preparing Adolescents for Responsible Adulthood	Books	5	9	37	N	N	You can take control	I decided I needed a different approach with my teenagers when my son came home with a green Mohawk and a big Bush tattoo (George W., that is) one day and my daughter said she wanted to get a couple of nipple rings that would have sunk the Bismarck. This book really helped me take control of the situation. Now I have the green Mohawk and the nipple rings and my teenagers think I'm the coolest dad around, and they're as obedient as can be. Who would have believed it? But I owe it all to this book. Highly recommended.	2002-10-21
1369541:US	45193257	R15PHU6T7HZ5ID	1842223984	868229468	Best Sex You'Ll Ever Have	Books	5	12	23	N	N	Great guide	This book is a surefire way to spice up any couple's lovelife. My significant other and I bought this book together and decided to be adventurous and go through every position in the book in sequence. We were doing great until we got to position 69, where we got stuck and just haven't been able to move past it, for some reason. But we will. Just give us another 6 months or so.	2002-10-21
1369663:US	45193257	R20XPZJ7R6ZVIL	0679034137	11505743	Fodor's German for Travelers (Phrase Book) (Fodor's Languages for Travelers)	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Useful phrasebook	I found this to be a well written, detailed, and easy to use language guide. I have used a number of the Fodor language guides and travel guides over the years, as well as the ones by Lonely Planet, and I think they offer the best value for the price.<br /><br />I plan on going to Europe soon, and hopefully, this guide will make it a smoother trip than the one I made to the eastern bloc some years ago.<br /><br />While we're at it, I hope you don't mind if I recount a funny story that happened the last time I was in Europe.<br /><br />I was in Sophia, Bulgaria, trying to ask a Bulgarian policemen where I could buy a map, which in Russian sounds like \\"Gedzye ya pokupaiyu carteeriye? and instead I pointed to the phrase in the Russian phrasebook which said, \\"Where can I find a mild laxative?\\" He gave me a look that indicated I hadn't quite communicated my real intent, and then I noticed where I was pointing in the phrasebook, and I guess the expression on my face did the rest, because at that point he basically realized I didn't know what the hell I was doing.<br /><br />Anyway, hopefully my next trip will go smoother in the cross-cultural communication department.	2002-10-21
1369743:US	45193257	R12M6DG9SA7QPH	0961764902	879908202	You Can Teach Your Dog to Eliminate on Command	Books	5	13	24	N	N	Freud would be pleased	I got myself a 300-pound Great Dane and taught him to do this using Smith and Stibbard's method. It's great for getting rid of those unwanted peddlers and solicitors who come to your door these days selling everything from Avon cosmetics to the latest s_x gizmo. Well, actually, some of the s_x toys are pretty interesting, but since my pet gerbil got jealous I had to return them.<br />So far it's worked great except for the salesman who's suing me in small claims court for ruining his $100 Florsheims.	2002-10-20
1369748:US	45193257	RGZ5EJF4UM8EC	0440214580	102067724	Bred Any Good Rooks Lately? (Intrepid Linguist Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very bunny fook	Many people don't know the spoonerism was eponymously named after the famous professor Spooner, who was especially prone to these when he got excited. One time when he went to church, back in the days when they still had assigned pews, he found a woman occupying his seat, and said to her: \\"Mardon me padam, you are occupuing the wrong pie, may I sew you to another sheat?\\"<br />Overall, a very good book on this and other funny verbal conlabfulations. Oops, I mean confabulations.	2002-10-20
1369895:US	45193257	R2DO0B4PMDL3KX	0192620029	499138566	Podoconiosis: Non-filarial Elephantiasis (Oxford medical publications)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A weighty subject	The National Institutes of Health say that there is a virtual epidemic of obesity occurring not only in the US, but in almost every advanced country--except, curiously enough--France. Fifty percent of adults over 40 are overweight, and our children aren't much better off.<br />As a result of reading this book, I think I've found the cause, since I believe I have this problem with at least a couple of my more \\"aesthetically challenged\\" body parts. But getting back to the present volume, this book seems to be on a timely and weighty topic that seems to be weighing equally heavily on the behinds and minds of both the general public and our health officials.	2002-10-20
1369993:US	45193257	RFRAZ3308ITFE	0399504621	87279548	Firm your fanny (A Perigee book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Does Gene Simmons know about this?	Given the title of this book, this must have been the hottest-selling excercise book ever in Great Britain, where I understand the word \\"fanny\\" has a totally different meaning. On the other hand, didn't a Britisher write Fanny Hill? I can't recall anymore, but if it was, no wonder they tried to censor it way back when. That must be one interesting hill to have a picnic on or look for four-leaved clovers, that's for sure.<br />Not to be outdone, we Americans have something known as a \\"fanny pack,\\" which is a small backpack you can wear around your waist.<br />Also in British English, a \\"fag\\" is a cigaret. If you say you're going to \\"smoke a fag\\" in America, people will get really strange ideas about your personal and sexual habits.<br />Well, I think that's enough comparative English linguistics for me. I think I'll get my bleeding fanny over to the corner apothecary and get myself a fag or two while I fix my big bumbershoot.	2002-10-20
1370066:US	45193257	R14P4F6SM2EEGX	0936661097	649209883	Andrew Lloyd Webber: Arranged for the Harp	Books	4	3	11	N	N	Don't harp on it	Many of the great Andrew Lloyd Webber songs are here, including \\"Don't Cry for Me, Argentina,\\" \\"The Phantom of the Opera,\\" and \\"Jesus Christ, Superstar.\\" My friend Peter Puller the Pasta Chef and Bartender Extraordinaire loves to do his own versions of these hit tunes, such as \\"Don't Cry for Me, Semolina,\\" \\"The Fandom of the Okra,\\" and \\"Jesus Christ, at the Bar.\\" There was certainly something special about Webber, and there is no better way to appreciate his special genius than getting a little plucky with a harp.	2002-10-20
1370505:US	45193257	R1BYV94U1E2CG3	0571142532	523388058	The Faber Dictionary of Euphemisms	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Useful guide	Thanks to this book, I've been able to find less descriptive, but far more romantic, substitutes for some of my more colorful colloquialisms refering to you know what, such as \\"Driving the pig-skin boat to tuna-town.\\" Highly recommended for those guys whose parents, like mine, saved a bundle of money by not sending me to charm school.	2002-10-20
1370533:US	45193257	R1QY2V9CINVR2X	189015928X	843646744	LOOK INTO MY EYES	Books	5	7	19	N	N	The eyes have it	Ever since reading the once infamous novel Trilby, in which the evil Dr. Svengali hypnotizes the innocent but untalented Trilby into becoming a brilliant pianist, I've been fascinated by hypnotism. Also, my partner says I make love as if I'm in a hypnotic trance anyway, so I thought I'd see if this book could help. Having been trained in hypnosis at the famous Svengali and Trilby Institute myself, I can only say that this book is a fine contribution to the field, especially for those guys (like me) whose modus amore, as it were, is indistinguishable from a zombi-like stupor. Highly recommended.	2002-10-20
1370672:US	45193257	R2N5ZQIVECGSNK	0806964197	845338915	Pumpkin Carving	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Halloween fun	Palmer is a high school art teacher and he uses that experience to teach people how to carve some spectacular pumpkins in this book. Each of the pumpkin designs has a template you can cut out to use for the actual pumpkin carving, which makes it very easy to do, since you don't need a lot of artistic or pumpkin-carving talent to make it work. He also includes technical details on the procedures, such as the necessity of occasionally using a drill to get the smaller, more precise holes and cut- outs.<br />There are several dozen designs, many of them the traditional scary or smiling pumpkin faces, but others include a nicely done Thanksgiving turkey and, oddly enough, a fish. While I will probably never try any of these designs out myself, this looks like a good book to learn from if you want to get adventurous yourself, or if you've just always had the urge to go at a pumpkin with a rotary drill and a carving knife.	2002-10-19
1370764:US	45193257	R1LKLI0QNBJYPR	1931412014	618507071	Emergency Magic!: 150 Spells for Surviving the Worst-Case Scenario	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Spellbound	This fascinating book lists four of these emergency situations right on the cover: 1) stop a cheating lover, 2) land a promotion, 3) prevent parking tickets, and 4) fit into your wedding dress.<br />I was excited to start trying these great spells right away. Unfortunately, I'm somewhat dyslexic and instead of correctly doing the above four spells, I got a little mixed up and what happened was my boss got the parking tickets, the lover who was cheating on me got the promotion, and the meter maid who gave my boss the tickets lost the weight and ended up fitting into my wedding dress.<br />Well, don't let my little magical misadventure discourage you, as this book looks to be filled with great spells for all occasions.	2002-10-19
1371104:US	45193257	R1S71TQPY1O1EL	0312261969	386166177	Louis XIV	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A monarch for all seasons, and then some	I once read that Louis XIV would hold court with his advisors and other notables while receiving his daily enema, making him sort of a public \\"enema of the people.\\" Maybe that's what was wrong with the French monarchy. The author seems to agree with me that Louis did have his problems, not the least of which is the eponymous condition, Dunlap's disease (note the similarity to our author's name), which Louis had also. Asked once whether he was gaining weight, Louis replied, \\"It done lapped over my belt.\\" And the rest, as they say, is history...	2002-10-19
1371155:US	45193257	R29EDAGGOXIQG5	0806996692	201070998	Test Your Psychic Powers	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Interesting book	I suspect a microencephalic aardvark has more psychic ability than I do, but I looked at this book to see if there was any help for over-educated but psychically benighted Neanderthals like myself. Unfortunately, they don't tell you know to acquire these esoteric abilities, but for those lucky souls who already possess mental powers far beyond those of us mere mortals, this book is full of interesting tests if you want to test your psychic quotient, so to speak.	2002-10-19
1371343:US	45193257	R1LW7EQCPI5ASU	0743202481	778875858	Civilizations: Culture, Ambition, and the Transformation of Nature	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Enjoyable and interesting history	Armesto's approach to history is driven by ecological concerns, showing how a particular culture adapted to its particular environmental milieu. In the introduction, he discusses the difficulties historians have had trying to define the concept of civilization, pointing out that they all fail in one way or another. But Armesto's approach is simple in that ultimately it all comes down to food, sustenance, sustainability, and adaptation to one's environment. He mentions that other historians occasionally write him, complaining that his approach ultimately comes down to the history of food. Armesto also makes the important point that comparative historical analyses of civilizations, such as that of Toynbee's, have failed primarily because each civilization is the product of adaptation to a unique set of environmental circumstances.<br />Armesto didn't pioneer this approach, and other historians have certainly used it also. If I remember correctly, didn't the great Ellsworth Huntington 100 years ago theorize that the decline of the ancient civilizations was due to a drying period in the climate in the Middle East starting several thousand years ago? I'm not sure what the current status of this theory is, since I've also read that one of the reasons that Sumeria and Akkadia declined after the second millenium BC and that the focus of power and culture shifted northward into Babylonia, was because the lower Euphrates and Tigris rivers suffered salination.<br />Anyway, I still found Armesto's approach interesting, and as valid as any other method. Armesto is always saying things that I found informative that I hadn't read anywhere else. For example, in talking about the evolution of the first effective nomadic animal herders, he points out that the critical advance is having mixed flocks of different animals, since different animals will give milk at different times of the year--otherwise, you might run out of milk--which could mean the difference between survival and starvation.<br />Armesto uses this interesting approach to analyze some important (and not-so-important) civilizations, ranging from ancient Mesopotamia to the Lapps in northern Scandinavia. He has the ability to capture what is specific or unique about a particular culture with a few incisive, almost epigrammatic phrases, and similarly, he is equally comfortable with broader time scales, and can give you seemingly effortless insights about an entire historical period in a few sentences or brief paragraph. This doesn't mean the book is superficial in its approach or that Armesto is given to making broad, casual, over-generalizations. Far from it. As a result, the entire book kept my interest and curiosity at a high pitch since I was always wondering what Armesto was going to say next.<br />Overall, a very well-written, engaging, and enjoyable history by an outstanding contemporary historian, and with an interesting approach to its subject.vation.<br />Armesto uses this interesting approach to analyze some important (and not-so-important) civilizations, ranging from ancient Mesopotamia to the Lapps in northern Scandinavia. He has the ability to capture what is specific or unique about a particular culture with a few incisive, almost epigrammatic phrases, and similarly, he is equally comfortable with broader time scales, and can give you seemingly effortless insights about an entire historical period in a few sentences or brief paragraph. This doesn't mean the book is superficial in its approach or that Armesto is given to making broad, casual, over-generalizations. Far from it. As a result, the entire book kept my interest and curiosity at a high pitch since I was always wondering what Armesto was going to say next.<br />Overall, a very well-written, engaging, and enjoyable history by an outstanding contemporary historian, and with an interesting approach to its subject.	2002-10-19
1373843:US	45193257	R3NCLFX3FSRJR5	0679783199	212654919	The City of God (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A brief comment	I just had one comment to make about the book, since it rarely seems to get discussed in the other reviews here, if at all.<br />Besides the many important issues the book dicusses, one of the main themes Augustine was concerned with is how an intelligent man could be religious. This problem is all the more important today since the rise of science has seriously called into question the Bible's picture of the universe. Whether I agree with his answers or not, Augustine was a great intellect for any age and a great man of God, and his book should be read more often by Christians, or anybody interested in religious history and philosophy.	2002-10-17
1374591:US	45193257	R3QTK6FMN6SJEI	0767902637	584775582	Chili Nation	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Creative chili book	One of my culinary quests in life is for the ultimate bowl of chili. Just when I think I've found it, someone comes up with a new idea to create another savory and spicy chili recipe. This book is full of recipes like that, and they often contain ingredients reflecting the local cuisine or some aspect of the local food culture. For example, the Hawaii recipe contains macadamia nuts, the Vermont recipe has maple syrup in it, and the Wasthington state one is spiked with coffee (appropos of Starbucks), and the Pennsylvania recipe has unsweetened cocoa powder.<br />The recipes also very quite a bit; most contain meat, but some are totally vegetarian, and some don't even have beans. There are red chilis, green chilis, spicy and not so spicy recipes, and the meats include beef, pork, sausage, chicken, lamb, shrimp, and veal. Some of the recipes stretch the definition of chili to the breaking point or perhaps beyond, such as the Maryland recipe that calls for shrimp and crabmeat in a cream sauce with a little chili powder. But whether this counts as true chili or not, I found the ingenuity and creativity of many of the state's recipes a delight and an interesting theme around which to build a cookbook about chili.<br />If you're into variety as well as spicy food, you'll probably enjoy trying out all the recipes here. The ones that don't have a locally famous ingredient often come from a restaurant the Sterns ate in that had a recipe that they liked. The authors also include a lot of information on chili history and trivia and a mail-order list of places to get spices and chilis. And last but not least, the Sterns also include a few side-dish recipes, such as coleslaw, jalapeno cornbread, corn pudding, and a three-bean salad.<br />Overall a witty, well-written, and interesting cookbook on a great American dish, and with some nice, extra features thrown in for good measure.	2002-10-16
1375233:US	45193257	R7EK0IBTHP827	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Fails in its chief goal	As others have already written very good critiques of this book, I just had a few miscellaneous comments.<br />Behe spends a lot of time discussing what he sees as the biochemical problems with evolution, and in the process fails to deal with many macro-level evolutionary phenomena that only such a theory can explain. <br />For example, one of these is the fact of whales and other cetaceans occasionally being born with legs instead of flippers. Evolutionary theory handles this easily, since whales were land mammals once, probably related to present-day bears, that returned to the sea millions of years ago and became adapted to that environment. <br />Although they developed flippers and fins and \\"lost\\" their legs and arms, they never really lost them--instead, those genes remained but are suppressed in normal individuals. However, occasionally this mechanism fails and another limb instead of a flipper gets created.<br />Of course, as I said, this is easily understandable under evolution, just as many similar phenomena, such as our infants' recapitulating their phylogeny, and developing gills temporarily while in the womb, and so on. The Creationist response to this and other problems is that God just created it all this way.<br />Unfortunately, evolution isn't the only science the Creationists have to worry about. There's also the problem of the origin of the universe, which is explained by scientists by the Big Bang, which occurred approximately 20 billion years ago. And even if the Big Bang theory is wrong, at least three different astronomical age measurements point to an origin of the universe billions of the years ago, rather than in 4004 BC. These are the 25-centimeter background radiation, the Hubbel recessional velocities of the farthest galaxies derived from their spectral shifts, and the age of the oldest red dwarf stars in the Milky Way's satellite globular clusters.<br />I notice that there don't seem to be any Creationist writings on this subject, although I haven't done an exhaustive search yet, but I probably will to see if their is anything on the subject. Perhaps the physics and math is too difficult, and so they stick to Darwinian biology, which at least can be understood without that much hard-science background.<br />Anyway, the final problem with Behe's book is that he fails to show why his theory of intelligent design is any more convincing than Darwin's.<br />The bottom line, however, is that whether Darwinian theory is valid or not, the Biblical theory is not a tenable explanation, either.<br />Overall, I give Behe's book 2 stars, rather than 1 star, just for creativity, but really, this is just very poor science and not a viable alternative to evolutionary theory at all.	2002-10-15
1376539:US	45193257	R2D5FVCDFY7FHK	0471265799	551319681	Straight Talk on Investing: What You Need to Know	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Great no-nonsense guide	I've done a lot of both short-term trading and long-term investing in the market, and this book cuts through the smoke and mirrors to give you the straight dope on investing. I've read many books over the years on the market by most of the great traders and investors, and there are really only a few important lessons you need to learn. This book distills all that down into readable form without all the distracting technical details.<br />One important lesson, for example, is to find an approach that is right for you, and that matches your goals, tolerance for risk, and essentially, your personality. If you like to trade more actively but are doing a passive dollar-cost averaging program; or if you're a more hands-off investor but are trying to be a day-trader, you're probably not going to be able to make a success out of your program.<br />Another important lesson to learn is that investing really isn't, and perhaps shouldn't be, rocket science. Although I've done a few very technical kinds of investing, including such things as arbitraging short and long butterfly option spreads, which can get very complex, Brennan says you really don't need to get this fancy to be a good investor, a point I would have to agree with.<br />And realistically, I can't say I did that much better with all the fancy stuff as I did with my more low-key long-term investments in quality stocks. In that case, why not just invest in good, quality stocks and stop all the thrashing? I was doing okay at it, but after adding up all the commissions, I wasn't doing that much better than my long-term portfolio, and it was a lot more work, although it was fun for a while. Anyway, I finally decided to do just that. This is the sort of wisdom that perhaps only comes from experience, but Brennan has packed a lot of that into this book, so you don't have to go through everything I did to learn these important lessons.<br />The present market has unfortunately reminded a lot of people that stocks are potentially risky investments, and so many people are rethinking their portfolios and whether the market is really for them. For those who still have the courage to brave the waters, this book has a lot of great advice and information for the investor who still wants to invest in the market.entially risky investments, and so many people are rethinking their portfolios and whether the market is really for them. For those who still have the courage to brave the waters, this book has a lot of great advice and information for the investor who still wants to invest in the market.	2002-10-14
1377621:US	45193257	R2YDW6MZQ3NEQL	0140430377	493098356	The Complete Plays (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Excellent	I just had a brief comment. I don't consider myself an expert on Elizabethan era literature, but I've read a fair amount of Shakespeare and a number of the other authors of the period, and I have to say I was quite impressed with Marlowe. He certainly deserves to be better appreciated than he is. One of the lines from Edward II has stuck with me. I think I have it more or less correct, which was: \\"...and as for the multitude, they are like sparks--caught up in the embers of their poverty.\\" You have to like an author who can write like that, but unfortunately he's been so overshadowed by the great Will that he doesn't get as much attention as he should. Anyway, by way of doing what I can, however, modest, to increase Marlowe's popularity, I'd like to say he's a damn good playwright, and that I have no qualms about throwing my own not inconsiderable bulk behind his reputation.	2002-10-14
1378609:US	45193257	RCN6DL02RAXK0	0970262655	758047353	The Passionate Ape	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Interesting but see below	I just had two comments to make.<br />One of the points the author makes, and one which is discussed by other reviewers here, is that the aquatic origin makes more sense if you consider that quadrupedal locomotion is more efficient than bipedalism. While this is true, Richard Leakey points out in his book, the Origin of Humankind, that the proper comparison is between apes and monkeys and man. If Homo sapiens is compared with them, our mode of locomotion is the most efficient.<br />Also, the new fossil finds of orrorin tuganensis, ardipithecus ramidus, and sahelanthropus tchadensis show that our evolutionary line can now be pushed back 6-8 million years to pre-homonids that were not only adapted to life on the ground, whether it was in savannah or forest, but still retained significant tree-climbing ability. This is shown by the more human pelvis and long legs but apelike upper body and arms, with a higher ratio of ulnus/radius to humerous length.<br />The above evidence contradicts the author's idea and unfortunately is far more compelling than his aquatic origins theory, and he fails to discuss it in the book. However, I give the author points for creativity, even though I don't think his idea in the final analysis holds water.	2002-10-13
1382745:US	45193257	R2PKQSN38QJ6EV	1883403626	761371840	CANON EOS Rebel 2000	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Useful manual	This is a great replacement for the original manual. It goes into much more detail than the original manual, and I was impressed with the one that came with the camera, as it was similarly well-written, and Canon seems to have taken more care in producing it than most manuals, as if they really want you to learn the basic and technical features of the camera to make you a better photographer. I would recommend you read the original manual first, and then buy this book if you want more information.<br />Since we're on the subject of the EOS Rebel 2000, I thought I would make a few comments about the camera too. I bought my EOS Rebel 2000 several months ago and already am extremely satisfied with it. I've taken a couple of short trips in that time and have run several rolls of film through it, and the photos came back nice and sharp. The only thing I could have done better in the photos was to use some exposure compensation. On one of the trips I was shooting wildlife at a beach on an overcast day, and even then, the sand was reflective enough so that the some of the subjects were a little dark and looked somewhat silhouetted. I was aware of many situations where you need to use backlight compensation--for example, I remembered to use it when shooting a stream at Yosemite with the sun shining from the side and glinting off the waters--but I didn't think that on a very overcast day I needed to worry about it, even shooting against fairly light-colored sand. Well, I admit I am still learning technically and I learned something there.<br />Happily, this little camera gives you manual control over shutter speed and aperture, as well as many other nice features, such as depth of field preview (which even the ELAN II lacks), and a respectable 1/2000th of a second top shutter speed. If you've been mostly a point and shoot camera owner until now, your fastest shutter speed will only have been about 1/500th of a second, unless you own one of the Contax point and shoots such as the T2, which go up to 1/700th of a second, but cost about 5 times as much as even the more expensive and capable point-and-shoot cameras. Then at the extreme high end there's the Rollei QZ 35W, which, although a superb \\"cadillac point and shoot,\\" weighs in at 22 ounces, and at about twice the price of even the T2, will truly cost you a pile of green stuff. But it's a great camera too and has an amazing 1/8000th of a second top shutter speed.<br />I'm getting used to the controls, which are a little different from my Rollei QZ35W. The jog wheel feature, for adjusting ASA settings and so forth, I find an interesting feature which I'm more used to seeing on Palm PDA clones such as the Sony CLIE, but I find I like it here, too.<br />In addition to the lens that came with it, I found a Tokina ATX 25-70 mm constant F2.8 Pro Series lens used at a great price, and decided to buy it for the little EOS Rebel. The camera fits comfortably in my hand, if I have one complaint, it's that the grip on the right side is a little small for me with the much bigger Tokina lens mounted, but it's okay.<br />To give another plug here for this great little camera, a friend at local camera shop says he knows a pro photographer at a large newspaper who uses nothing but EOS Rebel 2000 bodies, and he just puts his $3000 pro lenses on it. He says they're capable enough to do anything he wants, but cheap enough so he doesn't worry about hurting them. He carries 3 of them at a time with him, and if one has a problem, they're cheap enough so he just throws away the malfunctioning one and grabs a new one out of his bag.<br />One final thing, as I mentioned above, the original manual is really well written, very clear and concise. They seem to really want you to learn and make use of the camera's features to make you a better, more technically aware, photographer. So be sure to read the manual. Then follow it up with this book.<br />I've found this to be an exellent little camera at a very reasonable price given all the features Canon has packed into it. Canon has produced an outstanding value and a very capable camera in this little package. I can recommend this camera without reservation, especially if you're considering moving up from the point-and-shoot category to a camera with more advanced features.nable price given all the features Canon has packed into it. Canon has produced an outstanding value and a very capable camera in this little package. I can recommend this camera without reservation, especially if you're considering moving up from the point-and-shoot category to a camera with more advanced features.	2002-10-09
1385548:US	45193257	R38QHQ3O9AYLRM	0813339189	590768788	Extinct Humans	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Outstanding	It's been 20 years since I read up much on the paleoanthropology, so I thought I'd get up to date and read some of the recent books on the subject. One thing I noticed right away, compared to when I was last studying the subject in college, was how our evolutionary tree was now much \\"bushier,\\" compared to what we knew back then. Now it's thought that there were at least 3 or 4 different species of Australopithecines, and the same goes for Homo habilis, and H. erectus.<br />Besides this book, so far I've read Paul Jordan's Neanderthal, Richard Leakey's The Origins of Humankind, and Richard Klein's The Dawn of Human Culture. They're all excellent books, but Klein's and Tattersall's were both published in the last year, so they're the most recent, and include important information on the most recent finds, such as Ardipithecus ramidus, although the Sahelanthropus tchadensis discovery by the M. Brunet expedition was so recent it unfortunately doesn't appear in either book.<br />This book is the most beauifully illustrated of the four books I've read so far. The full-color plates of the different skulls really allow you to connect the comparative anatomy as discussed in the text with the actual features. The book has very nice, glossy paper, so the photos look great, but that also means its the most expensive book of the four. Tattersall's writing is excellent and never gets dry or technical, and the Klein book is also extremely well written. Klein's book also has very clear explanations of high-tech dating methods such as radioisotope dating, thermoluminscence, ESR or electron spin resonance dating, and so on, and he also discusses their strengths and weaknesses, and the technical problems and limitations involved in using them, which I liked.<br />The book also has an excellent introductory chapter in which the author discusses the early history of comparative fossil anatomy, including the important work of Blumenbach, who founded the science and revised and expanded on many of Linnaeus's notions about taxonomy, especially the definition of the genus Homo, and our species, Homo sapiens.<br />The Leakey book is now almost 10 years old, and although somewhat dated, it's still worth reading, as its focus is different from these two books. It's not primarily about the comparative anatomy of the different fossil finds so much as what the changes in anatomy from the pre-homonids to the homonids meant for our physiology and ultimately our life-style. Leakey uses the fossil record to show that such human characteristics as a prolonged, helpless infancy, a more active and athletic way of life, delayed sexual maturity, the development of finer tool-making, and the advent of complex social relationships and sophisticated language, all arose during the transition from the Australopithecines to the more advanced Homo habilis and Homo erectus.<br />Neanderthal, by Paul Jordan, is the most technical and in some ways the most difficult to read, but it's the most detailed and in-depth discussion I've seen on this important homonid and its relatives. Jordan does have some chapters on the other pre-homonid and homonid evlutionary lines, but you don't get to these until you're halfway into the book, so the main emphasis is definitely on Neanderthal and the major discoveries there. Therefore, I would recommend you read either Klein's or Tattersall's book before this one to get a better idea of all the earlier and later species before tackling this book, since it's so heavily Neanderthal-weighted.<br />Overall, however, all of these are excellent books, and each has its own pros and cons. My preference, and the ones I enjoyed the most, were the present volume and Klein's, partly because their recent publication allows them to discuss the most recent finds, but also I found them to be the most readable and well-written.<br />Hope my little comparison review of recent paleoanthropology books helps, and happy book buying and reading!	2002-10-07
1386386:US	45193257	R263JOFGRQZUSH	0060936649	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Delightful hybrid	This book delightfully blurs the boundaries between philosophy, history, and biography, and maybe even imaginative storytelling as well. Whatever it is, the book uses the account of a 10-minute altercation between Wittgenstein and Popper as the point of departure to explore the people and ideas beyond much of 20th-century philosophy and critical thought, using the diametrically opposed ideas of the two men to contrast and illustrate the important controversies of the day, in addition to its account of the careers of these two great philosophers. Although the book and the ideas surrounding the debate will probably not be that familiar or interesting to anyone but philosophically well-informed readers, the book is still unique in making the lives of two otherwise retiring (and sometimes not-so retiring), cloistered dons a fascinating combination of drama and philosophy. For those with at least some background in the ideas, however, it's an engaging and creative (but still accurate) exploration of 20th-century philosophical thought as reflected in the lives of two of its greatest philosophers.	2002-10-06
1386495:US	45193257	R31V1UJSDFEPBS	0679601759	901665062	Thus Spoke Zarathustra: A Book for All and None (Modern Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A brief comment	I just had a brief comment to make on TSZ, which, although not my usual sort of reading in philosophy, I still enjoyed and found thought-provoking in many ways.<br />My philosophical interests are mainly in 20th-century analytical philosophy and the philosophy of science, but I've read a few books here and there specifically about Nietzsche and his philosophy, and although I sometimes wonder if the exhortatory, highly personal and idiosyncratic, and epigrammatic (not to mention contradictory) approach to expressing his ideas that Nietzsche takes in Zarathustra really does justice to them, there is no doubt the book strikes a responsive chord in readers in a way that none of his other typically more academic-sounding books have.<br />I will say, however, that I do agree with a couple of the things he says in the book. I liked the parts where Zarathustra says that \\"Man has killed God with his indifference,\\" and also, on a more sociological note, \\"It is not that our institutions are no good anymore; it is we who are no longer any good for our institutions.\\" I can sort of relate to those sentiments, at least, and whether one agrees with many of Zarathustra's statements or not (and actually, despite my reservations about the book's style and presentation, I found I often agreed with what Zarathustra says) the book certainly stands as one of the most dramatic, visionary, and uniquely personal philosophical works ever written.	2002-10-06
1386755:US	45193257	R21E0AFQ86ZT77	0465053130	959872820	The Origin Of Humankind (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	A good, easy to read intro	This book focuses more on how the fossil and cultural (i.e., tool-making) evidence for early human ancestors illuminates various aspects of human nature and what it truly means to be human, rather than on the technical details and comparative anatomy of the different pre-homonid and homonid evolutionary lines. Leakey does spend some time discussing the fossils and anatomy, though, which would be almost impossible to avoid in a book on physical anthropology, of course, but it's not the main emphasis of the book. He's mainly interested in showing how the fossil record illuminates the important physical and cultural changes that occurred during our long evolution, and what that says about how early humans lived.<br />For example, Leakey discusses how the anatomical changes from early Australopithecus (Lucy) to Homo erectus suggest profound differences in the physiology and life style of our earliest ancestors versus the first and later homonids. During this evolutionary transition, all the following changes occurred: the prolonged, more helpless infancy of humans; our ability to be more active and athletic, more delayed sexual maturity; the ability to make and use finer tools; the ability to hunt and kill larger game, along with a more omnivorous diet; a more complex and sophisticated social structure; and finally, the development of true language. Leakey includes separate chapters on 'The Art of Language,\\" \\"The Language of Art,\\" and \\"The Origins of Mind,\\" in which he discusses the evidence for these higher-level and more advanced cognitive processes. Leakey is also careful to discuss investigations ranging from traditional comparative anatomy to high-tech approaches using DNA techniques, microanatomy (such as tooth lines), and CAT scans.<br />Another important topic he discusses is how the fossil evidence has forced modifications in the conception of our evolutionary tree. Since I was last reading up on the subject, the tree has become much less linear and far more \\"bushy.\\" Another hallowed and traditional idea that had to be abandoned was Darwin's own theory of primitive man being \\"special\\" and highly evolved even from the very beginning. As the fossil record has demonstrated, our evolution was far more gradual, with many intermediate homonids known for both H. sapiens and Neanderthal, such as the Sima de los Huesos and Petrolonas finds, which show that there were primitive, archaic Neanderthals in Europe who eventually evolved into the more modern types such as those found at Steinheim and Arago. For the pre-Homonids we now have Australopithecus afarensis, A. africanus, A. aethiopicus, A. robustus, and Australopithecus boiseii, as well as possibly two or different kinds of H. habilis, and so on. As I  mentioned earlier, this has provided powerful support for a \\"bushier\\" family tree for human origins.<br />I only have one complaint, which is that the book, being now almost 10 years old, doesn't include the more recent finds of Ardipithecus ramidus and Sahelanthropus tchadensis, which together push our origins back several million years further even than \\"Lucy,\\" at 3.6 million years, or Australopithicus afarensis.<br />Overall, however, a nice little introduction to the subject and the issues relating to our earliest origins, and I would give it four and a half stars if I could. After this book, you should have the background to tackle more technical books on the subject. If you decide to do this, I would recommend reading Richard Klein's book, The Dawn of Human Culture, next. It was published this year (2002), and discusses all the more recent finds in some detail. Klein's book is also probably the most readable and well-written account on the subject I've ever read, despite it's being at a fairly good technical level.<br />After you've finished with Klein's book, I would read Ian Tattarsal's Extinct Humans next, which is notable for the beautiful, high-gloss, color photographs of all the skulls, which is a great feature for comparing the descriptions of the comparative anatomy in the text to the actual specimens. It's also very well written, like Klein's book. In fact, the entire book is printed on very nice, high-gloss paper. The only downside is that this makes the book somewhat pricey compared to the other books here.<br />I have one more recommendation, which is that you could follow Klein's book with Neanderthal, by Paul Jordan. It's the only book I've seen covering the one genus, although Jordan includes chapters discussing the earlier and later homonids, too, but the emphasis is definitely on all the Neanderthal finds and their significance. It makes for more technical and somewhat dry reading, but does cover the subject in a more detailed way than any of the other books I've seen.<br />After reading these four books, you'll have covered the best current writing out there on the subject, along with all the major fossil finds. As I said, the only one missing from these books is the M. Brunet expedition's discovery of Sahelanthropus tchadensis, and you could just look up some online articles about it to get the scoop on that. Also, Time magazine had a major article on it in the July 22, 2002 issue, so you could try looking up that, too, at which point, you'd have covered everything.<br />Hope my little comparson review of these books helps. Good luck and happy reading!omparing the descriptions of the comparative anatomy in the text to the actual specimens. It's also very well written, like Klein's book. In fact, the entire book is printed on very nice, high-gloss paper. The only downside is that this makes the book somewhat pricey compared to the other books here.<br />I have one more recommendation, which is that you could follow Klein's book with Neanderthal, by Paul Jordan. It's the only book I've seen covering the one genus, although Jordan includes chapters discussing the earlier and later homonids, too, but the emphasis is definitely on all the Neanderthal finds and their significance. It makes for more technical and somewhat dry reading, but does cover the subject in a more detailed way than any of the other books I've seen.<br />After reading these four books, you'll have covered the best current writing out there on the subject, along with all the major fossil finds. As I said, the only one missing from these books is the M. Brunet expedition's discovery of Sahelanthropus tchadensis, and you could just look up some online articles about it to get the scoop on that. Also, Time magazine had a major article on it in the July 22, 2002 issue, so you could try looking up that, too, at which point, you'd have covered everything.<br />Hope my little comparson review of these books helps. Good luck and happy reading!	2002-10-05
1387158:US	45193257	R18W7WUINJ3JCO	0486216292	830295439	Musical Structure and Design (Dover Books on Music)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Great little book	Davie's little volume is a very concise and well-done book which serves as an excellent indroduction to this important aspect of music theory. I was very rusty on the subject, and needed a quick read to get me back up to speed. Davie's book succeeds very well, without a lot of extra detail and great technical difficulty. Davie peppers the text with lots of examples illustrating the different principles, and as a practicing composer himself, Davie knows whereof he speaks. Overall, an excellent little book to read and learn from. After reading this book, you'll have the background to tackle the weightier tomes on this subject, if you're so inclined.<br />My only complaint is the writing style is a little dry, and Davie is certainly not alone in this for technical books on music theory, so that's why the four stars in my rating. But I would give it four and a half stars if I could, since it really is a great little primer, and I haven't seen anything else that does as good a job in such a concise format.	2002-10-05
1387189:US	45193257	R19MKLY813ML4I	0618040196	513328313	The Seven Sins of Memory: How the Mind Forgets and Remembers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The best intro	I just had a few miscellaneous comments to make.<br />This is the best book I've seen for the non-specialist on the subject of memory by a notable scholar and scientist in the area. Schacter boils it all down to \\"seven sins,\\" which he shows are not truly defects in our memory system and cognitive processes so much as unfortunate side-effects of memory capabilities we'd be poorer without. Shachter explains it all in a well-written, informative, and even engaging manner, and despite the book's popular slant, it contains a great wealth of detail and technical information on this important field of psychology. Altogether an outstanding contribution to science-writing that will probably become a classic in its own right.	2002-10-05
1387307:US	45193257	R3GIXFRCFLO2P3	076455168X	620183464	Weight Training For Dummies	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Well written, interesting, and detailed introduction	First, I should mention something of my background. I've been very physically active most of my 50 years, mostly as a martial arts student and instructor for 38 years, so I'm no stranger to very physical activities and athletics. However, I didn't have much background in weight training, and this book really helped me get a better background on how to best design, organize, and optimize my weight workouts. I'm interested in toning up and gaining maybe a little strength, but I'm mostly concerned, at my age, in preserving and enhancing endurance. I've found that putting on too much muscle slows me down, and as a martial artist, that's my main concern.<br />The authors discuss a number of different special techniques used by experienced weightlifters to continue to gain strength despite their already extremely well-trained muscles which become accommodated to the movements, which is apparently a well-known problem, so this book would be helpful for them as well. But it was also useful for my more modest goals and needs.<br />The authors include some chapters on other things you might not think about but that were also helpful, such as the pros and cons and ins and outs of fitness centers and health clubs, joining a health club versus buying a home gym and working out at home, and even such things as proper etiquette at the gym. Since I'd joined one for the first time just before I purchased this book, I found this advice useful as well. Last but not least, there are good chapters covering alternative methods like yoga and Pilates.<br />Overall, I found this a practical, well-written, useful, and informative book and well worth the money. For a very experienced lifter it might be too basic, but for me it was exactly what I was looking for.	2002-10-05
1388697:US	45193257	R3Q2FYQUXV2UG6	0789459620	475906581	DK World Atlas: Second Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A brief comment	As others have already written very complete reviews of this fine atlas, I just had a brief comment or two. Like DK's other books, this atlas is notable for DK's facility for innovative and attractive graphical design. One thing they do that nobody else does is to angle the maps at different orientations, which sometimes looks odd, as they stretch across the two-page spreads of the book, so that the many illustrations and paragraphs of text will fit. This makes it possible to cram a lot more material on a given page and makes the DK atlas the busiest and densest looking of all the big atlases out there, which can sometimes get a little distracting. But it also allows them to impart a lot of information and include many other graphics that might not otherwise fit. I didn't mind this really and give them credit for being creative here.<br />I also compared this book with the even bigger and truly gargantuan DK Millenium Atlas, but which is more than twice the price. The main difference seemed to be the latter book's inclusion of cloud-free satellite photos along with the traditional geographical maps of each region, making it possible to correlate real photos of the earth with the more standard maps, an interesting feature and contribution, but as I said, it's more than twice the price of the present volume. Both are superb atlases, however, and whichever one you pick, they are great books for teaching, learning, or just to browse through for the fun of it.	2002-10-03
1388757:US	45193257	RLXLCXI985TIW	0750926767	783863546	Neanderthal: Neanderthal Man and the Story of Human Origins	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Best coverage of Neanderthal	This book, as the title suggests, concentrates on Neanderthal finds, fossils, and tool-making, and it goes into a great deal of detail on the current state of our knowledge. In fact, I would say it's probably the most thorough discussion I've found of all the important Neanderthal finds, along with the many intermediate fossil discoveries that show the evolutionary progression of the Neanderthal line.<br />These include finds such as the Spanish Sima de los Huesos fossils, and the Greek Petrolona fossils, both of which strongly seem to represent an early, archaic form of Neanderthal in their heavier brow-ridges and smaller (about 1200 cc) braincases. Along with these, there are discussions of the several classic Neanderthal finds from France and Germany, too. As I mentioned, the author goes into a fair amount of anatomical detail discussing and comparing the fossils from the many different sites, and so this book may be somewhat difficult, dry, and technical for the non-specialist. Overall, however, it's a very thorough and detailed discussion of the state of our knowledge about this important homonid. The average reader, however, may find the author's prose a little turgid, and the overall technical level a  little rough going, but in general, I can't fault the writing too much given the level of technical difficulty of the book.<br />In addition to the comparative anatomy, the author also discusses Neanderthal tool-making and cultural artifacts, such as the Mousterian industry, and others.<br />Given the difficulty of the book, I would recommend that many people read Richard Klein's The Dawn of Human Culture before tackling this book, unless you're already somewhat knowledgeable about human evolution. This is a more accessible and very readable book that discusses all the early pre-homonids and homonids from Ardipethicus ramidus up to Homo sapiens, giving much more equal weight to the different stages in human evolution. It will give you a better perspective on the entire line of human evolution before reading Jordan's more specialized volume, which heavily emphasizes Neanderthal. Jordan does provide later chapters discussing earlier and later fossils, so eventually he places Neanderthal in the context of the other homonids, but you don't find these until about half-way through the book.<br />Another nice point about Klein's book is the interesting discussion of high-tech dating methods and how they're being used, such as radio-isotope methods, luminescence dating, ESR or electron spin resonance techniques, and so on. Klein is also careful to discuss the pros and cons of each dating method, and what the difficulties are in using each method.<br />Overall, Jordan's book is an excellent, thorough, and fairly technical discussion of the subject which is worth reading despite being somewhat tough going for many readers.e entire line of human evolution before reading Jordan's more specialized volume, which heavily emphasizes Neanderthal. Jordan does provide later chapters discussing earlier and later fossils, so eventually he places Neanderthal in the context of the other homonids, but you don't find these until about half-way through the book. <br />Another nice point about Klein's book is the interesting discussion of high-tech dating methods and how they're being used, such as radio-isotope methods, luminescence dating, ESR or electron spin resonance techniques, and so on. Klein is also careful to discuss the pros and cons of each dating method, and what the difficulties are in using each method.<br />Overall, Jordan's book is an excellent, thorough, and fairly technical discussion of the subject which is worth reading despite being somewhat tough going for many readers.	2002-10-03
1388959:US	45193257	R22F2IPME16LA	0674954734	3554712	Women in Ancient Greece	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Interesting and well written account	You wouldn't think anyone could come up with a new or original idea for a book about ancient Greece, but actually, this book comes close in its focus on the treatment of women. Blundell's book is well-written, scholarly, and even includes the occasionally humorous (and possibly apocryphal) story. For example, there is a section in which she discusses the punishments for adultery. According to Athenian law, a husband had the right to kill a man caught in the act of adultery with his wife. However, the law also allowed the dead man's family to sue the aggrieved man for damages, so it's suspected that very few men actually availed themselves of this right, and perhaps opted for other choices, such as payment for damages, and so on. There is even mentioned the punishment of \\"radishment,\\" which is \\"to have a large radish stuffed up one's anus.\\" I kid you not. Well, this piece of information comes from the satiric playwright Aeschylus, who mentions it in one of his plays, and so is perhaps the product of the writer's over-active imagination. But whether this was actually part of the law or not, I found this to be a well-written, scholarly, and occasionally humorous account of life in ancient Greece.	2002-10-03
1390535:US	45193257	R37TDGW083BG8V	0292798040	130897357	Hieroglyphs without Mystery: An Introduction to Ancient Egyptian Writing	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Best intro on the subject	I looked at several introductions to Egyptian and this seemed to be the easiest and clearest entry into the subject. The text by Collier/Manley is more detailed and gives more information from a structural linguistics standpoint, but I would read this book to get an understanding of the alphabet, basic symbols, diglyphs, triglyphs, phonetics, and word overall structure before tackling their book. The book also contains sample translations and exercises to test your comprehension, and it's nicely illustrated with actual inscriptions from cartouches and Tutankhamen's tomb, so you get the real stuff.<br />Although I have a pretty strong background in both applied and theoretical linguistics, I still found this book valuable before reading the more technical works. After reading this you'll have a good background for the more advanced books. All in all I highly recommend it as the best starter text around.	2002-10-02
1390955:US	45193257	R2EXO4BSFVUGC2	0521095107	266571877	Introduction to Theoretical Linguistics	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best intro on the subject	I've read lots of both applied and theoretical linguistics books and this one is by far the best intro to the theoretical areas. Very well written and understandable despite the quite respectable level of technical discussion and scholarship. After reading this book you will be in excellent shape to tackle more advanced topics and books. Lyons covers all the major areas, from phonetics to structural linguistics and transformational grammar. To give just one example of the many discussions I enjoyed in this book, there was the section in which Lyons discusses ergative languages, such as Eskimo, and the concepts of ergativity vs. transitivity. Altogether a superb introduction and although now a true classic (having been published in 1968), one which I've never seen surpassed.	2002-10-02
1392250:US	45193257	R39E0NAX4BK5VJ	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Better than I expected	This book, although not great, was better than I expected. Some of the chapters are both interesting as well as entertaining in their discussions of the Simpsons as philosophy. Others are somewhat weaker, and there are a few duds. But overall, I thought it turned out pretty well, and some of the chapters are pretty imaginative even if the philosophical significance of it all gets stretched a little thin at times. So I give the authors of each chapter credit for being pretty creative if nothing else. Overall, not a bad book and more interesting and entertaining than I was expecting.	2002-09-30
1393939:US	45193257	R3V3LQ3D2005QI	0471252522	718856168	The Dawn of Human Culture	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Well written, interesting, and enjoyable account	This book is a very well written and detailed discussion of early hominid and pre-homonid evolution. In addition, Klein uses the fossil and cultural or tool-making evidence to address the issue of \\"the great leap forward,\\" which occurred about 50,000 years ago. This event marked a key turning point in our cultural development, when humans began to engage in truly advanced, modern cultural behaviors as seen in the beautiful cave paintings, intricately carved figurines, and delicate, finely carved ornaments for jewelry such as ostrich egg-shell beads, the detailed and diverse toolkit, and the building of permanent and well-constructed houses and other structures.<br />However, I was mainly interested in this book because, since it was published in 2002, it contains discussions of the most recent palaeontological finds, such as Kenyanthropus platyops, Ardipithecus ramidus ramidus and Ardipithecus ramidus kadabba, and Orrorin tuganensis. These are then compared with the more well-known early ancestors, such as Australopithecus afarensis, or \\"Lucy,\\" which is known from a number of fairly complete skeletons at this point, and others such as A. africanus, A. amanensis, and the three Paranthropus species, robustus, boiseii, and aethiopicus.<br />After reading the first 100 pages of the book, which discusses the finds up to about 1 million years ago, I looked up the original Nature article by Leakey, et al on Kenyanthropus online and read it. It was much more technical because of the specialized anatomical terminology (which, although I have some background in anatomy, I'm a little rusty), but I was able to get through it with some understanding after reading Klein's well-done presentation for the non-specialist.<br />Another nice feature is the excellent discussion of high-tech dating methods such as radio-isotope methods, luminescence dating, ESR or electron spin resonance techniques, and so on. Klein is also careful to discuss the pros and cons of each dating method, and what the difficulties are in using each method.<br />In addition to the discussion of the fossil finds, the author also does a fine job of carefully presenting the information and arguments about the cultural revolution that occurred about 50,000 years ago. All in all, a very well written, interesting, and enjoyable book discussing the most recent fossil finds and how the new evidence of our evolution and cultural development sheds light on the issue of the great leap forward.what the difficulties are in using each method.<br />In addition to the discussion of the fossil finds, the author also does a fine job of carefully presenting the information and arguments about the cultural revolution that occurred about 50,000 years ago. All in all, a very well written, interesting, and enjoyable book discussing the most recent fossil finds and how the new evidence of our evolution and cultural development sheds light on the issue of the great leap forward.	2002-09-29
1393982:US	45193257	R1TPTAEMTFZEUK	0061315451	360159255	Historians' Fallacies : Toward a Logic of Historical Thought	Books	5	117	120	N	N	Superb analysis	Fischer presents a detailed and trenchant look at the problems of  historical explanation in this fine book. It is certainly one of the best history books I've ever read, although it's not a history book per se, since it's really a critique of the different explanations historians use. Fischer discusses probably about a hundred or more of these, so you probably won't be able to remember them all, but if nothing else, you'll be more alert to the more common and egregious types of historical errors, and overall, the book is a useful analysis and reminder of the problems and difficulties of writing history. In that regard, it's still a very interesting and worthwhile book.<br />Some of the fallacies I already knew from philosophy, such as the pathetic fallacy, the fallacy of composition, the post hoc fallacy, and so on, which are already well known. But then there are plenty of others with more abstruse names, such as the \\"the fallacy of the hypostatized proof.\\" My one complaint enters here, since Fischer would have benefited from a knowledge of logic and philosophy, since he sometimes gives names to fallacies that are well known in logic and philosophy by a different name.<br />But overall, this is one of the best books on the methods and philosophy of history I've read, and it should probably be required reading for every student of history and professional historian alike.	2002-09-29
1394435:US	45193257	R1ZLWGGDGS2652	0679723005	83678771	The Book: On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are	Books	4	117	127	N	N	Still useful 60's classic	I never gave Watts his full due of respect back in the 60's and 70's, because at the time I (and others) saw him as a trendy popularizer perhaps cashing in on the interest of that segment of the western readership who are perennially eastern-obsessed and therefore too naive and uncritical of their philosophy. Back then, there were just too many young people, who, having rejected whatever western culture they were brought up in, simply accepted, lock, stock, and barrel, Tao, Vedanta, and/or Buddhism after having read one or two books and therefore having finally discovered \\"the truth.\\"<br />Well, looking back, that's perhaps too harsh an assessment, and I will say that Watts's book is an extremely well-written, concise, and clear introduction to Vedantic thought that is as relevant today as it was 35 years ago. I recently picked up the book after 30 years, and found that in many ways I enjoyed it even more than I did back then.<br />As others have commented more completely on the usefulness and relevance of the philosophy in the book, I will just mention one thing. I really enjoyed his discussion about the fear of death. Watts points out that the way western culture deals practically and philosophically with death, isolating the individual from feeling a part of the universe as a whole on the one hand, and as basically a taboo subject, on the other, is unproductive and ultimately does nothing to resolve the issue. He points out that the denial process of sweeping it under the rug only makes it worse, and that ultimately the only solution is to just face one's fear. If death frightens you or makes you afraid, well then, be afraid. At least be honest about it, because that's the first step to realistically starting to deal with the problem.<br />The reality is, that no matter how certain one is of one's religion, no-one truly knows if there is an afterlife. It is possible that all these beliefs simply represent a wishful-thinking and wish-fulfillment response to a realistic fear--the fear of death. Until one admits that and confronts the issue head on, it will continue to haunt you despite your most cherished beliefs to the contrary.istic fear--the fear of death. Until one admits that and confronts the issue head on, it will continue to haunt you despite your most cherished beliefs to the contrary.	2002-09-28
1394481:US	45193257	R1TTUBWATEP1B3	0871136643	331588213	The Lucifer Principle: A Scientific Expedition into the Forces of History	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A brief comment	This book will no doubt warm the hearts of budding or already experienced and confirmed misanthropes everywhere. Bloom examines and skillfully synthesizes findings from diverse disciplines such as genetics, history, psychology, ethology, and anthropology to show why humans are the way they are, and why the most unfortunate aspects of human behavior are so intractable and hard to overcome. Even more significant, he shows how these ideas apply not only to individual actions but also even to the fate of nations, including some very sobering implications for the future of the U.S. itself.<br />I would sum up Bloom's detailed analysis by saying it basically comes down to the fact that, despite our large brains and great intelligence, humans would rather live down to their lowest instincts rather than the other way around. As a result, we have a history replete with atrocities and violence on an almost unfathomable scale. And as recent events around the world seem to show, it just gets worse every year.<br />Well, I hope humans survive, even if, as Bloom shows, we're basically just a bunch of power-crazy, warlike, sex-crazed, and over-evolved ground monkeys with brains too big for our libidos (not to mention the approximately 40,000 nuclear weapons still out there).<br />Humans seem to be a tragic and unfortunate species, as Bloom and others have amply demonstrated. Appropos of Bloom's discussion, I'm reminded of the great Lawerence Stern and Jonathan Swift novels. As these two notable authors showed in their novels, we may have one saving grace--perhaps we make up for our sins in sheer entertainment value--since Gulliver's Travels and Tristram Shandy were very funny books on the myriad and dark foibles of us humans.<br />Again, I would sum up Swift and Stern by saying that man is the only species that is a satire or caricature of itself, since we are basically the protagonists--or perhaps the court jesters--in the tragicomedy of our own lives.<br />But getting back to the present book, I enjoyed Bloom's wide-ranging scholarship and discussion, and all in all, this is an interesting and thought-provoking book despite its overall downer message for us humans.e present book, I enjoyed Bloom's wide-ranging scholarship and discussion, and all in all, this is an interesting and thought-provoking book despite its overall downer message for us humans.	2002-09-28
1394593:US	45193257	R2CQ6U9MG0E3WA	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic futuristic war novel	Since others have already written very complete reviews of this book, I just a had few miscellanous comments to make.<br />I waited almost 20 years to read this novel, and it was worth the wait. As a futuristic war story, I enjoyed this book as much as Starship Troopers, although it's a very different book about war. In the thousand-year war chronicled in this story, William Mandella becomes almost immortal as he goes from collapsar jump to collapsar jump. In the process, he leaves behind the earth he once knew and all his friends and family, surviving into a future of genetically identical humans, in which \\"imperfect\\" individuals such as himself no longer exist.<br />Besides the tragedy of the war itself, which ironically turns out to have started because of our misunderstanding the Taureans, earth itself is irrevocably changed. At one point he returns home only to discover there's not much there for him anymore, as when he finds that because of concerns about over-population, the entire population of earth is now gay--including his own mother. Most of the military is now gay too, except for a few old veterans like himself.<br />Besides the dramatic story about war, the book also counts as one of the great love stories in science-fiction. Mandella and his girlfriend are separated at one point and don't realize they're still the same age--because people age at different rates when they go through different collapsar jumps. They're eventually reuinited and are able to retire comfortably from the military when the war ends--since they've both accumulated a thousand years of duty pay.<br />Eventually the war with the Taureans ends in a peace, and despite the tragedy of the war, which turns out to have been completely pointless, the story at least ends on a happy note for Mandella and his love.<br />Overall a dramatic and evocative novel of the future, and which I think well deserved the two awards (both Nebula and Hugo) it received.	2002-09-28
1396686:US	45193257	R2VNANUKLVFOBU	0226067157	98018874	Ancestor of the West : Writing, Reasoning, and Religion in Mesopotamia, Elam, and Greece	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Informative and scholarly work	This book consists of three long essays by different authors, one of whom is Bottero. It's a good book, but it's  more technical than Bottero's Everyday Life in Ancient Mesopotamia, and if you're thinking of reading this book, I would recommend you probably read the latter work first before tackling this volume in order to get some extra background, unless you're already well versed in the subject.<br /><br />Before reading this book, I also read a brief history of the ancient Sumerians and Akkadians to get at least a basic grounding in the history and something of a historical context, since, as I said, this book is significantly more technical, and perhaps, a little dry as a result, but it's still an impressive piece of scholarship and well worth reading.<br /><br />Bottero's Everyday Life is also written by a team of authors, with Bottero writing several of the chapters. It's quite readable, as well as extremely interesting, and has chapters on Love and Sex in Ancient Mesopotamia, Religion, the Law, Food and Cuisine, Women's Rights, etc.<br /><br />Overall, this work is a valuable contribution to scholarship in the area with much good information and some important theoretical discussions on the nature of thought and culture in ancient Mesopotamia.	2002-09-26
1396773:US	45193257	RDP8CYBN4K4H0	0801868645	650748632	Everyday Life in Ancient Mesopotamia	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Very interesting	If you're interested in ancient Mesopotamian civilization, you'll probably love this book. It's full of fascinating information about the day-to-day lives of the ancient Sumerians and Akkadians. Chapters include such topics as Love and Sex, Women's Rights, Food and Cuisine, the Law, Religion, and so on. The book is written mostly by Bottero, but there are also several other scholars who contribute some of the chapters. Most are well written and not too technical or difficult to read, and as I said, full of lots of interesting and intriguing information and facts.<br />The ancient Mesopotamians come across as practical, no-nonsense people who, in contrast to the ancient Egyptians, weren't especially religious and believed in living life in the here and now as best one could. Although they did have a religion, it was mostly for propitiating various gods and deities who they hoped would bestow their blessings on them in their personal or public affairs. There was a concept of the afterlife, but it was basically a dark, dingy, netherworld where not much happened, it seems, and they regarded the present life as far preferable to it.<br />A good example of their practical approach to affairs is that marriage was a simple contract without much ceremony. Women could marry who they wanted and could divorce much as men could, although adultery was tolerated much less for women than for men. A surprising fact is how extensive their food and cuisine was. According to the writer of the chapter, the Sumerians knew how to make hundreds of different types of breads, soups, beer, and other dishes, depending on the ingredients and how they were prepared.<br />Overall, a fine book and addition to the practical history and understanding of the ancient Mesopotamians.	2002-09-26
1397369:US	45193257	R3CLD1Q0D7AQ3N	0631209328	748145565	The Goths	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Good except for one omission	I just had a very brief comment to make.<br />Overall, I found this book contained a lot of good information about the Goths. I would have liked more information on the Visigoths, as he doesn't really discuss where they came from, how they were organized and so on, very much. Except for this one main omission, a good history, overall.<br />Aside from the history contained here, I found this book valuable for the brief discussion in the introduction about the practical and theoretical difficulties of connecting cultural traits with a people's identity, and vice-versa. I hadn't thought about this before, except in vague terms. Heather shows the problems with this approach to history and civilization.	2002-09-26
1398272:US	45193257	R92RGRMEND018	0816047618	101567412	Historical Atlas of the Celtic World	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Well written & beautifully illustrated atlas	This is a beautifully illustrated and well-written book on the Celts. In addition to the text, there are many illustrations and photos of Celtic art throughout the book. I found it hard to put down once I started, and I ended up reading the entire 180-page atlas in a couple of sessions of a few hours each. Well written articles accompany each map section, and as I mentioned, there are dozens of beautiful photos and illustrations, especially of the many striking pieces of Celtic art and jewelry.<br />The author does a fine job of covering the history, showing how important the Celts were to history for 1600 years, and how their influence is even still being felt today. At one time the Celtic world stretched all the way from Scotland to part of the middle east.<br />Until I read this book, I didn't know how far south their influence went. I already knew about their influence in Great Britain. But the number of mighty civilizations the Celts met and defeated as they expanded southward is almost ridiculous as they went around marauding in their own inimitable way. For example, they successively fought and defeated the Thracians, then the redoubtable Macedonions twice, then the Greeks at Thermopylae, the Etruscans in Italy, as well as the entire Iberian peninsula, and finally, even further south, fought and defeated the Syrian army. For a while there was an important Gallic settlement in Anatolia. Half of Hannibal's army consisted of Celtic mercenaries, and Celtic mercenaries were even hired by the Pharaohs of Egypt.<br />Konstam points out that one of the reasons for the Celts' superiority in battle was their stronger and more efficient iron weapons, compared to their opponents, who were still using Bronze Age weapons and materials.<br />The book is organized into two-page spreads, as is typical of atlases of this type, with an article and its accompanying map, photos, or illustrations covering each two-page section. In addition to that, the book is organized into a number of different chapters or sections, covering the major historical periods; the major archeologically distinct phases, such as the Unetice, Tumulus, Urnfield, Halstatt, and La Tene cultures; Celtic religion; Celtic myths and legends; Celtic art; the Celtic warrior and his beliefs and weapons; and the Roman battles and conquests. Also, there is a chapter on the different Celtic tribes and peoples, including separate articles on the Scots, Picts, Gauls, Welch, Cornish, Irish, Galatians, and Celtiberians. Finally, there is an article on the Celtic revival and how Celtic influence is still being felt today in art and religion.<br />Overall a very interesting, well-written, and beautifully written history and atlas of this important people.ber of different chapters or sections, covering the major historical periods; the major archeologically distinct phases, such as the Unetice, Tumulus, Urnfield, Halstatt, and La Tene cultures; Celtic religion; Celtic myths and legends; Celtic art; the Celtic warrior and his beliefs and weapons; and the Roman battles and conquests. Also, there is a chapter on the different Celtic tribes and peoples, including separate articles on the Scots, Picts, Gauls, Welch, Cornish, Irish, Galatians, and Celtiberians. Finally, there is an article on the Celtic revival and how Celtic influence is still being felt today in art and religion.<br />Overall a very interesting, well-written, and beautifully written history and atlas of this important people.	2002-09-25
1398661:US	45193257	R1YUCT25C9G0MK	078944609X	464793534	DK Atlas of World History	Books	5	214	218	N	Y	The most visually appealing of all the historical atlases	This is probably the most beautifully laid out and graphically designed of the big 5 or 6 atlases out there. I had a few miscellaneous comments to make, and then I thought I would compare it with the Hammond Atlas, which is the other \\"big gun\\" out there.<br />First, a few minor nitpicks. In the article on prehistoric man, they don't mention the age of Lucy of 3.6 million years. They do mention the species name, Australopithecus afarensis, but then although they mention the first genus homo was H. erectus in the main article, you have to read the other smaller print articles around the page to get the age figure. Also, there is no mention of ardipithecus ramidus, the oldest known pre-Homonid fossil, at 4.5 million years, or that we know of two different Australopithecines, africanus and robustus, representing a gracile versus a more robust species.<br />One characteristic of the DK atlas is it is more topically oriented than some of the others. In the ancient history section, for example (my main interest), it has essays on \\"Growth of the City,\\" \\"Trade and the First Cities,\\" and the \\"Earliest Writing, Counting, and Calendars.\\"<br />But the biggest difference between the DK and the others is that it's divided up into two main sections--Eras of History, and the Regional Histories. The eras section contains essays such as \\"The World 1250-750 BCE\\" or \\"The World in 250-500 CE.\\"<br />The regional history section has the histories of the main geographic areas of the world, such as Europe, West Asia, North Asia, East Asia, Africa, South America, Australasia, North America, and so on. Within those sections you'll find specific articles such as \\"Europe After the Fall of Rome,\\" or \\"Early Empires of West Asia, or \\"North America, 1865-1920.\\"<br />The DK atlas has 470 maps, 420 timelines, over 1000 photos, and a 20,000 entry index/gazetteer which is much more than an index since the entries include capsule biographies and histories of important events--a unique feature of all the atlases, and similarly there is a subject/index glossary that does the same thing.<br />The Hammond atlas is the other major offering in this area. Compared to the DK, the Hammond reads more like a typical history book, with articles that go on for several parallel columns of unequal depth and accompanied by maps and various illustrations. The DK text is much more broken up into smaller paragraphs with different sizes of type, often relating to a photo or smaller map or other graphic. Although visually more striking than the Hammond, its approach is more disjointed as a result and I think harder to use and learn from. The articles also are somewhat more superficial as a result compared to the the competing atlases, especially the Atlas of World History by John Haywood and the Hammond and Oxford historical atlases.<br />The DK has nicer, glossier paper than the others, which makes their maps and photos more attractive. Also the map colors of the DK are aften more pastel-like, whereas the Hammond often uses the traditional four-color map color scheme with bright red, green, blue, and yellow, which, after the DK, is a little garish and hard on eye, although they also have many maps with more subtle color schemes, so it's not a hard-and-fast distinction.<br />One other nice feature of the Hammond is that it has a separate timeline at the beginning of book of 11 pages.<br />Finally, the Hammond atlas is 373 pages and the DK is 352, including indexes, so they're pretty close in terms of length, and their overall dimensions are almost the same, so they're pretty equivalent there.<br />Finally, one major advantage of the DK atlas, however, is that it has the most coverage of all the other areas of the world, besides Europe. The others are all more Eurocentric.<br />The bottom line is I would say the Hammond atlas is the more informative and scholarly of the two, but the DK is more fun just to browse and page through. Depending on what you're looking for and how you like touse them, you might prefer one over the other.<br />One last thing I'd like to mention is that the John Haywood atlas, although not as large and as comprehensive as the Hammond and DK, is also well worth considering. It's also excellent and only a fraction of the price of these two big volumes, and I think it does the best job of integrating the text with the maps and graphics.<br />Hope my little comparison review helps. Happy atlas shopping, buying, and reading!use them, you might prefer one over the other.<br />One last thing I'd like to mention is that the John Haywood atlas, although not as large and as comprehensive as the Hammond and DK, is also well worth considering. It's also excellent and only a fraction of the price of these two big volumes, and I think it does the best job of integrating the text with the maps and graphics.<br />Hope my little comparison review helps. Happy atlas shopping, buying, and reading!	2002-09-24
1398980:US	45193257	R1QDMPMXU1ZVWF	0500051097	159532089	Atlas of the Celtic World	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Superb atlas	A whole host of historians such as Rankin, Moscati, Chadwick, Martel, Eluere, Markale, Aedeen, Powell, and Litton have all edited or written books entitled simply \\"The Celts,\\" not to mention the dozens and even hundreds of other books with other titles on the Celts, so if anything there is virtually a plethora of works out there available on the subject, especially in the way of traditional histories.<br />Which bring me to the present volume. For something a little different on the Celts, try Haywood's book. The book skillfully combines text with the many maps, graphics, and photos. Among the book's several strengths are the many pictures showing Celtic art and the maps which provide a graphical display of the important events of the time. There are 54 maps and 160 illustrations in the book. The photos show the Celts to be superb craftsman and metal-workers, and before reading this book, I didn't know they have been around since at least 1200 B.C. and lasted all the way down to late ancient times in the 3rd or 4th century A.D. Compared to the Greeks and Romans, who left major monuments, many texts, and various archeological finds, we have comparatively little in the way of remains for the Celts, but Haywood does a fine job of detailing and discussing what we do know of these somewhat mysterious and shadowy tribesman of Northern Europe.<br />Haywood is especially skilled at linking the text with the maps, and to give another plug for this fine author, he did a really great job with his Atlas of World History, which is one of the best historical atlases out there, especially considering it's up to 1/4 the cost of some of the more famous \\"big guns\\" like the Dorling-Kindersley and Hammond atlases of world history. Hammond also writes much better than most atlas writers, who prose only too often is a good substitute for late-night television as a soporific. If I recall correctly, Barry Cunliffe is the author of 40 books on history and archeology himself, and in the introduction he describes the book as \\"an incomparable source.\\" I would have to agree with him, and altogether this is a fine book to read, browse, pore over the maps, or whatever, by a talented scholar and presenter of history.roduction he describes the book as \\"an incomparable source.\\" I would have to agree with him, and altogether this is a fine book to read, browse, pore over the maps, or whatever, by a talented scholar and presenter of history.	2002-09-24
1400610:US	45193257	R36X19WD5LQE8V	067174271X	527042489	The Timetables of History: A Horizontal Linkage of People and Events	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Well done and very useful	This is one of those books that is just great to browse through to get a perspective on a particular period in history and the sequence of important events during that time. The timeline goes from earliest history, 5,000 B.C., up to modern times. One nice feature is that it displays parallel timelines for several different topics, not just history and politics, but also Literature and Theater; Visual Arts; Music; Religion, Philosophy, and Learning; Science, Technology, and Growth; and Daily Life. This makes it useful and convenient for getting a broader picture of the overal cultural context in addition to the usual events such as which king was ruling, which wars were being fought, and so on.<br />One interesting use for this book would be along with one of those big historical atlases of the world, such as the ones from Hammond, National Geographic, Oxford, Time, and so on. Some of them include their own timelines, but usually they're not as detailed as the ones in this book. The combination of the two resources would make for an even more effective learning tool. If you're interested in buying one of these, out of the big 5 or 6 offerings out there, I like the Historical Atlas of the World, by John Haywood. It's not the biggest, or most complete, or the fanciest graphically, but it's one of the best written, visually appealing, and easiest to use. Also, I think it does the best of job of integrating the graphics and maps with the textual presentation. It's also the most reasonably priced and is anywhere from 40% to 80% cheaper than some of the others.<br />If you like timelines, another thing I noticed is that there are now several good websites devoted to this subject. You could also check some of these out if you're interested. I still find it's easier and more convenient to just have a book like this rather than having to download a lot of web pages (unless perhaps you have faster network connection than I do).<br />Overall, a very well done and very useful book on historical chronology, and at a very reasonable price. The price is less than many of the standard histories out there, despite its being a pretty big and thick book itself.ok on historical chronology, and at a very reasonable price. The price is less than many of the standard histories out there, despite its being a pretty big and thick book itself.	2002-09-23
1401037:US	45193257	R1SK4XTKK3VF5B	0195215672	561184716	Atlas of World History	Books	4	200	208	N	N	Excellent but see below	This atlas is great for looking up those events, both momentous and not-so-momentous, to get a quick grasp and overview of the situation without getting bogged down in some more detailed and ponderous history. If it weren't for John Haywood's Atlas of World History, I would say it's possibly the best one out there in relation to features and price. However, I have a preference for the Haywood volume because I found his writing style more interesting, not to mention the fact that his book is less than half the price of O'Brien's volume. While I would not wish to base a decision just on price, I would point out that I preferred either of these two books to the Hammond atlas, which is even more expensive, and the Times atlas, at almost twice the cost, and the Dorling-Kindersley, which, although a superb atlas, is still 20% higher.<br />While I'm at it, I'd like to say something about O'Brien's Atlas of World History, published by Philips. I mention it here since no matter how I search, I can't find this atlas listed anywhere, but this is a really superb atlas, and I think exceeds even the present volume in terms of quality and features. So if you can find this one, I'd also pick up a copy. Because it's so good, I'd also like to discuss it here.<br />All the of the big 5 or 6 major atlases out there have their strengths and weaknesses, and their pros and cons, I've discovered, and this one is no different. This one has one terrific feature that's worth mentioning specifically. At the end of the book O'Brien includes many fine articles summing up the state of the world since 1945 for the major areas and countries of the world, and for topics such as demographic changes, the growth of population, civil rights and women's rights, health and disease, transport and trade relations, the breakup of empires, and so on. O'Brien discusses in the introduction that this atlas was motivated partly by the upcoming millenium year, and because it seemed like such a timely point at which to assess and sum up much of the changes and progress that had accrued during the last half century or century in these articles. O'Brien did a great job in this area, and it's one of the book's many strengths. Overall, an excellent atlas given all the outstanding features, and I'd actually give it 4.5 stars if I could.<br />Since I started writing this review, I've discovered (through having purchased both books), that the Philips volume and the Oxford atlas are exactly the same book, just by different publishers. The only difference that I can find is that the Philips book is somewhat larger format. I'm comparing them right now, and the Philips book is about 1 inch wider and about 2 inches taller than the Oxford volume. This means the fonts for the paragraph text and the print on the maps are somewhat bigger and easier to read. They both have exactly the same--312--number of pages, and the publication dates are in 2001 and 2002, so they're very close there. However, I just noticed that the Philips book on the copyright page says \\"This edition published for Borders Books,\\" so it looks like a re-issue of the Oxford volume, only in a slightly larger format.<br />Well, it looks like I just bought two copies of the same atlas. Hopefully my little review will keep you from doing the same! Anyway, whichever atlas or version you decide to get, happy atlas buying and reading!h to assess and sum up much of the changes and progress that had accrued during the last half century or century in these articles. O'Brien did a great job in this area, and it's one of the book's many strengths. Overall, an excellent atlas given all the outstanding features, and I'd actually give it 4.5 stars if I could.<br />Since I started writing this review, I've discovered (through having purchased both books), that the Philips volume and the Oxford atlas are exactly the same book, just by different publishers. The only difference that I can find is that the Philips book is somewhat larger format. I'm comparing them right now, and the Philips book is about 1 inch wider and about 2 inches taller than the Oxford volume. This means the fonts for the paragraph text and the print on the maps are somewhat bigger and easier to read. They both have exactly the same--312--number of pages, and the publication dates are in 2001 and 2002, so they're very close there. However, I just noticed that the Philips book on the copyright page says \\"This edition published for Borders Books,\\" so it looks like a re-issue of the Oxford volume, only in a slightly larger format.<br />Well, it looks like I just bought two copies of the same atlas. Hopefully my little review will keep you from doing the same! Anyway, whichever atlas or version you decide to get, happy atlas buying and reading!	2002-09-22
1401055:US	45193257	R6ZVQM0U7440T	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent and readable	When I came to this book, I was mainly interested in the chapter on the Black Death, which I was researching at the time. I was interested in researching the history of microbial disease and epidemics, and Tuchman's chapter turned out to be an excellent place to start on this subject. Since it's the only chapter in the book I've read, I'll confine my comments to that.<br />There are several book-length treatments of the subject now, but I read the chapter in Tuchman's book to get a good introduction and overview of these events before reading the other, more specialized books. This doesn't mean the chapter was light reading. On the contrary, Tuchman packs a great deal of good and detailed information about the Black Death into this one chapter, dramatically chronicling and evoking the terror and horror of this plague as it swept across Europe.<br />The story of the Black Death's ravages in Europe makes for perhaps the most dramatically morbid and gruesome historical tale of all time, with 60-70 million dead from the disease, and I enjoyed reading Tuchman's excellent account on the subject. After this, I was ready to go on to more serious researches.	2002-09-22
1401135:US	45193257	RUCUUAXRRBR71	0843713593	988009647	Hammond Atlas of World History	Books	5	150	153	N	N	Great atlas but see comparisons below	I've been on an ancient history kick lately, and since it's been about 20 years since I've done a lot of reading in this area, I thought I would check out what's available in the way of good historical atlases of the ancient world, or of world history in general.<br />This book is one of the five or so big historical atlases out there that are available. Since I've been looking in detail at all of the current ones, I'll give brief comparisons and you can go from there and decide which one might be best for you.<br />These alases are great for looking up those events, both momentous and not-so-momentous, to get a quick grasp and overview of the situation without getting bogged down in some more detailed and ponderous history. All the current ones do a decent job of that, but they very in terms of readability, the number of, and detail of, the maps included, and the degree to which they integrate the visual maps and materials with the text. Here's the scoop on all of these.<br />1. The Hammond Atlas is the traditional \\"big gun\\" in the field, being literally the physically biggest and probably most comprehensive of the 5 discussed here. It's also the highest priced, and more expensive than the cheapest one I discuss here by a factor of five. It's still a fine atlas despite the cost, and if I couldn't get any one of the others here, I'd still be happy with this one as it's certainly a beautifully done atlas. The book has over 600 maps and illustrations, many of which show such nice details (which not all the other atlases do) as mountain ranges, and in general are beautifully colored with a variety of symbols showing movements and other important historical and cultural details.<br />2. The Oxford Atlas of World History is also well written, and has lots of maps just like the Haywood volume. I found the writing style somewhat less interesting than the Haywood atlas, who has a nice, deft touch with the material. These two books are otherwise very close, except that the Haywood volume is less than half the price of this one.<br />3. The Nat'l Geographic offering has some of the most entertaining writing by Noel Grove and Daniel Boorstin I've found in any history text. Some of the tidbits are really great, such as Grove's comment that \\"Russia's...Peter the Great died at the age of 53 after diving into the Neva River in winter to rescue drowning sailors.\\" Well, I'd read about him liking to cut off citizens' beards as he walked around town, trying to westernize and modernize Russia, too, so apparently Peter was quite a character in more ways than one.<br />Also, there was \\"Vikings were not just ruthless killers; they traded as often as they raided, and their wives knew rights that other medieval women could scarcely imagine.\\" This statement also fits in with a similar description I read in another history, that the Viking and Scandinavian free peasants as a class enjoyed rights and priviledges unparalleled in most of Europe and even England.<br />However, ironically, this atlas contains the least number of maps and illustrations of all the books here, and oddly enough for an atlas, it actually has very few maps. Most of the graphical illustrations are arts or crafts-related, in fact.<br />4. The John Haywood Atlas of World History represents a great  combination of quality and price. The book consists of articles on a particular period or topic which are closely integrated with the accompanying maps. This makes it very convenient to use. The book was written with a team of geographers and graphic illustrators skilled at combining the written word with graphics, and it shows. Also, this book is one of the more reasonably priced. My only complaint about this history is the index could have been more detailed.<br />5. The last atlas I wanted to discuss is the Times Atlas of World History. Although now a little dated, having come out almost 10 years ago in 1993, it still counts as one of the most scholarly, well-written, and well-illustrated of these works, and it's also intermediate in terms of price.<br />Hope my little \\"Consumer Reports\\" guide to the major atlas offerings helps. Good luck and happy book buying and reading!ed of these works, and it's also intermediate in terms of price.<br />Hope my little \\"Consumer Reports\\" guide to the major atlas offerings helps. Good luck and happy book buying and reading!	2002-09-22
1401259:US	45193257	R1V7UGJZ6JIY8Y	0792270487	354946987	National Geographic Atlas Of World History	Books	3	163	163	N	N	Good but see below	I've been on an ancient history kick lately, and since it's been about 20 years since I've done a lot of reading in this area, I thought I would check out what's available in the way of good historical atlases of the ancient world, or of world history in general.<br />This book is one of the half-dozen big atlases out there that are available. Since I've been looking in detail at all of the current ones, I'll give brief comparisons and you can go from there and decide which one might be best for you.<br />Atlases are great for looking up those events, both momentous and not-so-momentous, to get a quick grasp and overview of the situation without getting bogged down in some more detailed and ponderous history. All the current ones do a decent job of that, but they very in terms of readability and the number of maps included, and the degree to which they integrate the visual maps and materials with the text. Here's the scoop on all of these.<br />1. For my money, John Haywood's Atlas of World History is the best combination of features and price. Haywood writes very well and has a nice, deft touch with the material, unlike many atlases, whose prose often sounds somewhat dry and technical. The book was written along with a team of graphics experts skilled at combining the written word with maps and illustrations, and it shows. Although not as large as the Hammond and Dorling-Kindersley books, it's still excellent and only a fraction of their cost. Two other nice features are the color-coded timelines which accompany each two-page spread, and the many special symbols and legends on the maps, which are used to illustrate and highlight points in the text.<br />2. The Oxford Atlas of World History is also well written, and has lots of maps just like the Haywood volume. I found the writing style somewhat drier than Haywood's, but it's one of the most scholarly of the atlases out there, and could be used by college students given the level of presentation of the material. These two books are otherwise very close, except that the Haywood volume is less than half the price of this one.<br />3. The Nat'l Geographic offering has some of the most entertaining writing by Noel Grove and Daniel Boorstin I've found in any history text. Some of the tidbits are really great, such as Grove's comment that \\"Russia's...Peter the Great died at the age of 53 after diving into the Neva River in winter to rescue drowning sailors.\\" And \\"Vikings were not just ruthless killers; they traded as often as they raided, and their wives knew rights that other medieval women could scarcely imagine.\\"<br />However, the main shortcoming of this atlas is that it contains almost no maps. Most of the illustrations are arts or crafts related, for some reason. In that sense the book hardly qualifies as an atlas, and it would be more accurate to say it's a more like a well-illustrated history of the world, instead.<br />4. The Hammond Atlas, along with the DK, is physically the biggest, thickest, and most comprehensive of the 6 discussed here. It's also the highest priced, and more expensive than the cheapest one here by a factor of four or five. It's still a fine atlas despite the cost, and I'd still be quite happy with this one as it's certainly a beautifully done atlas.<br />The book has over 600 maps and illustrations, many of which show such nice details (which not all the other atlases do) as mountain ranges, and in general are beautifully colored with a variety of symbols showing movements of peoples and armies and other important historical and cultural details, similar to the Haywood volume.<br />The level of presentation of the material is also high, and would be appropriate up through college level, but the prose style is a little drier and more technical sounding than the DK or Haywood, for example. However, someone who is already pretty knowledgeable about history could probably still use this atlas, compared with the DK, which, although more attractive graphically, is obviously aimed at a broader audience.<br />5. The Dorling-Kindersley atlas is the most beautifully designed, graphically, of all the offerings out there, and they often set the maps at various angles or distort them in creative ways to fit all the different paragraphs of text and illustrations on a page, which sometimes looks a little weird. Because of this, the presentation consists of an introductory section in larger type, with other paragraphs in smaller type which are paired with the other maps and graphics on each two-page spread. In fact, there is almost a 1 to 1 correspondence between the illustrations and the text paragraphs. I found this made the atlas harder to use than the others, since the pages are almost so dense and busy with material that it's almost distracting, but there's no doubt it's the most visually appealing and graphically innovative of all the atlases out there. Their maps are really spectacular, and they use the glossiest paper, so their maps look more attractive.<br />The DK atlas also provides the best coverage of non-European history, doing a much better job of covering Asia, Africa, South America, and Oceania. The other atlases are more Eurocentric in their focus. Next to the DK, the Hammond atlas provides the best coverage in this regard.<br />6. The last atlas I wanted to discuss is the Times Atlas of World History. Although now a little dated, having come out almost 10 years ago in 1993, it still counts as one of the mostly scholarly, well-written, and well-illustrated of these works, and it's also intermediate in terms of price. I read somewhere that the more recent Hammond atlas is actually this one updated, but they don't state specifically that the Time atlas was its predecessor, so I can't verify this.<br />Hope my little \\"Consumer Reports\\" comparison guide helps. Good luck and happy atlas shopping, buying, and reading!ally, is obviously aimed at a broader audience.<br />5. The Dorling-Kindersley atlas is the most beautifully designed, graphically, of all the offerings out there, and they often set the maps at various angles or distort them in creative ways to fit all the different paragraphs of text and illustrations on a page, which sometimes looks a little weird. Because of this, the presentation consists of an introductory section in larger type, with other paragraphs in smaller type which are paired with the other maps and graphics on each two-page spread. In fact, there is almost a 1 to 1 correspondence between the illustrations and the text paragraphs. I found this made the atlas harder to use than the others, since the pages are almost so dense and busy with material that it's almost distracting, but there's no doubt it's the most visually appealing and graphically innovative of all the atlases out there. Their maps are really spectacular, and they use the glossiest paper, so their maps look more attractive.<br />The DK atlas also provides the best coverage of non-European history, doing a much better job of covering Asia, Africa, South America, and Oceania. The other atlases are more Eurocentric in their focus. Next to the DK, the Hammond atlas provides the best coverage in this regard.<br />6. The last atlas I wanted to discuss is the Times Atlas of World History. Although now a little dated, having come out almost 10 years ago in 1993, it still counts as one of the mostly scholarly, well-written, and well-illustrated of these works, and it's also intermediate in terms of price. I read somewhere that the more recent Hammond atlas is actually this one updated, but they don't state specifically that the Time atlas was its predecessor, so I can't verify this.<br />Hope my little \\"Consumer Reports\\" comparison guide helps. Good luck and happy atlas shopping, buying, and reading!	2002-09-22
1401490:US	45193257	R3T6O9X0ITUBT4	0500278873	567797227	The Hittites: And Their Contemporaries in Asia Minor (Revised and Enlarged Edition)  (Ancient Peoples and Places)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Excellent	My main historical interest is from man's earliest origins down to the formation of the first great city states in the third and second millenium B.C. in Mesopotamia and Old Kingdom Egypt. Since the Hittite empire can be traced back to at least 2000 B.C., they just barely make it into the period I'm interested in. As result, I was mainly interested in the first half of the book, discussing the earliest origins of the Hittites, so I will only comment on that. However, I found it to be a very readable history, as McQueen's writing flows well and doesn't get bogged down in trivial facts. There is a lot of good information here, and it was exactly what I needed to fill a gap in my knowledge of the earliest civilizations. This is the second updated edition, but I'd love to see an even more recent study on the subject, and as a result of reading McQueen's book, I may see if there are anymore out there. Overall, a readable and scholarly book on this important, ancient civilization.	2002-09-22
1402038:US	45193257	R146KI9AOKW142	0874070422	126495875	Savate	Books	4	9	9	N	N	First book in U.S. on the art	When this book first came out in the 60's, it was the first book on Savate published in the U.S. There are still only a few that have ever been published on the subject, and although I'm aware that there are now better books on it, I credit Tegner for coming out with the first useful book on the art.<br />As a karate and TKD man, the most important thing I got from this book was how different the \\"chambering\\" or delivery methods are for the basic kicks vs. karate. I am pretty big and tall, and I find that several of my kicks are actually delivered more like the Savate version rather than the classical karate version, which is sort of interesting. The high back stabbing kick from a quasi-layout position is also a kick I have worked to perfect as there is nothing quite like it in either karate or tae kwon do, and it's something I have occasionally used to good effect in sparring, since they're not accustomed to seeing this sort of oddly delivered kick.<br />If you are interested in more reading on Savate, there is a good section in Donald Gilbey's Secret Fighting Arts of the World, where he meets the great Savate master, Baron Fegnier. Fegnier was a ferocious kicker and incredibly fast, who had been in numerous street fights and never lost. One of the interesting things I came away with from this interview was Fegnier's emphasis on precise interval, rather than focus, in a kick. This is interesting since he is correct that even being slightly off in your interval or distancing will nullify most of your focus. Although Gilbey is probably Robert W. Smith, and many of these stories are no doubt apocryphal, the \\"Baron's\\" advice is still cogent and relevant.<br />Anyway, Tegner's book is still a useful introduction to this fascinating and obscure martial art, which almost completely died out after World War I, as many of the Savate masters were killed in the Great War, although I understand the art is now making a long-delayed but much deserved comeback.	2002-09-21
1402378:US	45193257	R2IM7GUC5WASS	0691025916	896658884	The End of the Bronze Age	Books	5	34	40	N	N	Well done and interesting account	This is an excellent book on an important and transitional period of history that saw the beginning of a new \\"dark age\\" after about 1200 BC. This was a critical period in the history of the ancient world, a time that saw the end of the great, elite city and state civilizations of Greece, Mesopotamia, Anatolia, Minoan Crete, and even to some extent of upper Egypt.<br /><br />During this time the Mycenaean civilization was attacked from the north by an unknown race, and The Sea Peoples attacked and defeated Crete, Minos, the cities of the coastal Levant, the Hittites, and as I mentioned, even upper Egypt and Mesopotamia suffered somewhat, although the Sea Peoples eventually were stopped and defeated by Egypt. They might even have been responsible for the fall of Mycenaean Greece. They were originally thought to have come from further north in Europe, but it seems more likely now that they were from the area around the Black Sea.<br /><br />Drew's theory is that the Sea Peoples use of better equipped infantry with more modern iron weapons, including better swords but also better armor shields and helmets for defense, instead of Bronze Age metal weapons and battle chariots, allowed them to defeat their seemingly stronger and more powerful opponents.<br /><br />Another important facet of the book is the author discusses the important technological innovations of the period and how that affected military tactics, strategy, and technology, such as the widespread use of the battle chariot, and how that ultimately may have contributed to the fall of the region's great civilizations at the hands of the Sea Peoples. The author also does an excellent job of discussing the other competing theories of the fall. Overall, this is a well-researched and well-written account of this important period in ancient history.	2002-09-21
1402595:US	45193257	R1WDZW330UFGRD	1586630997	44164807	Atlas of World History	Books	5	54	56	N	N	The best combination of quality, features, and price	Recently I did a detailed comparison of the 5 or 6 major offerings in this area, which includes such traditional notables as the big Hammond atlas and the one from Oxford University Press, as well as the Dorling-Kindersley one, but this atlas is the best combination of features and price out there. It's only a fraction of the cost of the big Hammond one, for example, and is cheaper than the other two by at least 50%.<br />So I agree with several of the other reviewers here, that this atlas really rocks, and that in many ways it's better than any of the more famous other offerings in this field on the market, including the massive Hammond one and DK ones, which, as I mentioned, are a lot more expensive.<br />I've read my share of ancient history books, and this atlas is just the best way to get a good overview quickly of a particular time frame and period. I've used it to clarify many aspects of ancient history, for example, when I got lost in the details in reading more standard histories on the subject. In reading your typical ponderous history, it's so easy to lose the forest for the trees, and there is no better solution for the problem than this book.<br />Another nice feature of the book is that periodically throughout the text there will be essays at key years or junctures in history, such as \\"The World in 1914,\\" or \\"The World in 800 BC,\\" or whatever, in addition to the more topically oriented essays, such as \\"Old Kingdom Egypt,\\" or \\"The Persian Empire,\\" or \\"The Warring States (referring to 5th A.D. century China) which give you further historical perspectives on the events of the time.<br />The book is organized into two-page spreads with the essays and their corresponding maps and illustrations.  According to the jacket text, the book was also prepared with the aid of graphics experts and geographers skilled at combining the written word with visual illustrations and graphics. I would say they and John Haywood succeeded admirably, making this a great book just to browse casually, or read more seriously. Haywood also writes very well and has a nice, deft touch with the material that avoids the dry, technical-sounding quality of some atlases.<br />Another nice feature of the book is the detailed, color-coded timelines that accompany each two-page spread, which some atlases don't always include or set aside in a separate section of the book. This makes it easier to use and more informative since it can be referred to along with the maps and the text.<br />My only fault with the book is that the coverage is typically Eurocentric, but this really only applies to the DK atlas, which is suprisingly strong in terms of its coverage of Asian, African, and non-European history in general. All the others are more Eurocentric, like this one.<br />Keep in mind that this book (like all atlases) aims at breadth rather than depth, since it covers the entire history of the world from man's earliest origins up to modern times. Overall a great altas and a fine book to keep you oriented in whatever period of history you are reading on.st to browse casually, or read more seriously. Haywood also writes very well and has a nice, deft touch with the material that avoids the dry, technical-sounding quality of some atlases.<br />Another nice feature of the book is the detailed, color-coded timelines that accompany each two-page spread, which some atlases don't always include or set aside in a separate section of the book. This makes it easier to use and more informative since it can be referred to along with the maps and the text.<br />My only fault with the book is that the coverage is typically Eurocentric, but this really only applies to the DK atlas, which is suprisingly strong in terms of its coverage of Asian, African, and non-European history in general. All the others are more Eurocentric, like this one.<br />Keep in mind that this book (like all atlases) aims at breadth rather than depth, since it covers the entire history of the world from man's earliest origins up to modern times. Overall a great altas and a fine book to keep you oriented in whatever period of history you are reading on.	2002-09-20
1402973:US	45193257	R3CTGV8FQVVMPP	0192854410	143905150	The Oxford Illustrated History of Prehistoric Europe	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Scholarly work	This book was written by a large team of authors, each of whom wrote a particular chapter. I assume, therefore, that they have special expertise in that particular period or subject, and although this work may be a little too dry and scholarly for some, I found it provided excellent coverage and that it was still readable. The book benefits from recent research which the chapter authors discuss, and the illustrations are excellent, with the many pictures of artifacts, works of art, and grave excavations that I hadn't seen before in other works being probably the most striking thing about the book. Also, I would like to compliment the author of the excellent and very detailed discussion of copper and bronze metallurgy, where he discusses the advantages of two-piece castings of hand-axes in the later Bell-Beaker culture using arsenical copper, which aids both hardness and castability, which was very interesting. And in general, the dicussions of archaeological finds relating to improvements in cultural artifacts such as pottery making, metallurgy, weapons, and building techniques are one of the major strengths of the book. Overall, a worthwhile read although possibly a little too dry and technical for many people, and actually, I would give it 4.5 stars if I could.	2002-09-20
1403850:US	45193257	RA1CNEDOBGNRK	0060188790	825706539	The Perricone Prescription: A Physician's 28-Day Program for Total Body and Face Rejuvenation	Books	4	36	40	N	N	A new idea	Perricone's basic idea is that you can rejuvenate your skin more from the inside than the outside. In other words, the best way to keep your skin looking young and healthy is through diet, eating the healthful foods, and avoiding the bad ones, rather than by putting on lots of expensive creams and lotions. I like this idea since there are lots of other reasons why you should eat a healthier, low-fat diet anyway--such as keeping your heart and blood vessels and other organs healthy, keeping your weight down, and so on. Avoiding high-fat, high-calorie foods and maintaining a healthier diet, exercising, and perhaps avoiding stress (I know, hard to do these days) are still the best way we know to live a long, happy, healthy life, so why not apply the same principles to your skin?<br />I would like see some other scientific evidence on the effectiveness of diet in controlling skin aging, and especially on some of the more controversial aspects of Perricone's nutritional theories. For example, he recommends avoiding carrots, long considered healthy because of their containing beta-carotenes and other anti-oxidants, because of their high glycemic index. Fruit, although high in anti-oxidants, also fall into this high-glycemic category, producing an insulin spike from the pancreas, which is bad because you will store fats rather than burn them.<br />My understanding on this was that you should prefer foods containing monosaccarides such as galactose and glucose, rather than disaccharides such as sucrose, because sucrose was hard on the pancreas and caused insulin spikes, but the simpler sugars didn't, being digested and broken down more gradually over time. ... I found his disussion of why you should eat wild salmon as opposed to farm-raised salmon interesting, but again, I'd like to see more evidence on this.<br />I found his recommendation that you should avoid carbs such as cereals and breads interesting ... Finally, there is now evidence that saturated fats and oils such as cocoanut oil, long-considered a real bad guy, don't produce oxidants and free radicals in the body, but that polyunsaturated fats and oils do.<br />Perricone also includes a lot information on vitamins and minerals, which I found to be more helpful and less controversial than his other nutritional recommendations.<br />Altogether, an interesting book with a different slant on skin aging and nutrition in general, but again, I'd like to see more independent evidence on some of the more controversial aspects of his nutritional ideas. His recommendations on exercise, vitamins, and keeping your weight down are hard to fault, however, and overall, I found the book's advice and message to be positive even if I remain somewhat sceptical on some of his nutritional theories.as cocoanut oil, long-considered a real bad guy, don't produce oxidants and free radicals in the body, but that polyunsaturated fats and oils do.<br />Perricone also includes a lot information on vitamins and minerals, which I found to be more helpful and less controversial than his other nutritional recommendations.<br />Altogether, an interesting book with a different slant on skin aging and nutrition in general, but again, I'd like to see more independent evidence on some of the more controversial aspects of his nutritional ideas. His recommendations on exercise, vitamins, and keeping your weight down are hard to fault, however, and overall, I found the book's advice and message to be positive even if I remain somewhat sceptical on some of his nutritional theories.	2002-09-19
1403924:US	45193257	R1LB9OLCBUOUTF	0198721943	541136912	Egypt, Greece, and Rome: Civilizations of the Ancient Mediterranean	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Superb history	This is a great book to get an integrated view of the ancient world. I looked at many different books before reading this one, having previously devoured a number of more specialized books about the ancient world over the years, but wanting something more in the way of an overall perspective and context. This book is great for that.<br />I was mainly interested in the sections covering pre-Classical Period Greece, from 1500 down to the Golden Age (about 500 BC), but the other areas of coverage are superb also. Freeman also has an especially nice touch and fluency with the Greek history, and I wasn't surprised to find a separate book on Greek history by him next to this one on the bookshelf. There were also several gaps in my historical knowledge that this book plugged. For example, his section on the Etruscans, which I only had very fragmentary and superficial knowledge of, was also excellent.<br />The book benefits from much recent scholarship, and the author points out in the introduction that one of the main differences between a modern book on ancient history and older ones is the degree to which ancient civilizations like Greece can be placed much more securely in the context of their times, showing them not as isolated cultural entities, but as arising from the interplay of much more cosmopolitan influences as they interacted with, and were influenced by, their contacts, peaceable or otherwise, with neighboring or competing cultures. This is another one of the great scholarly strengths of the book.<br />I also found the author's deft touch and writing style a big plus, and although by necessity this is not a short book, it rarely got tedious or boring. That is notable by itself in a work of this size and nature. Overall, it counts as the best overall book on the history of the ancient world, and one of the most consistently interesting history books, I've ever read.	2002-09-19
1403954:US	45193257	RP57HTOCH5IOZ	0500276161	113901441	In Search of the Indo-Europeans	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Still the best intro	I came to this book as a result of reading evolutionary biologist Jared Diamond's book, The Third Chimpanzee. The Horses, Hittites, and History chapter in Diamond's book discusses the several main theories for the origin of the proto-Indo-Europeans, and cites this as a major reference and source for this chapter. Since I like to go to the horse's (or Hittite's) mouth myself, following up on Diamond's dicussion of the importance of the book in his bibliography, I thought I'd check out the original book.<br />For those wanting a more complete exposition of the proto-Indo-European theory, this book is probably still the best one out there on the subject. Although now almost 20 years old, it's still a well-written, detailed account, and I would certainly recommend it to anyone wanting a better understanding of this area of history.<br />Actually, you could just read the 26-page chapter in Diamond's book first, and then see if you want more detailed information. Diamond himself used both the present book and many others to write the chapter in his book, so it represents a good summary of present scholarship in the area. For those of you who want more books on the subject, I mention some of these below, which Diamond also cites in his bibliography.<br />I would follow the above up with Cavalli-Sforza's book discussing his fascinating data showing the relationship between dozens of genetic markers and their current geographical distribution and presence, or lack of them, in the different peoples in Europe, and what this shows about their origins, since this adds a further dimension to the PIE hypothesis. Sforza also discusses the genetic data for peoples outside of Europe, such as Polynesians and Australasians, but I found his conclusions about Europe, since they're relevant to the PIE question, the most interesting.<br />In addition to the above two books, the other most important recent book on this subject is Colin Renfrew's Archaeology and Language; also important are older but still useful books by George Cardona, Indo-European and Indo-Europeans; Indo-European Language and Society, by Emile Benveniste; The Indo-Europeans in the Fourth and Third Millenia, by Edgar Polome; Ancient Indo-European Dialects, by Birnbaum and Puhvel; Indo-European Philology, by W.B. Lockwood, and The Distribution of Indo-European Root Morphemes, by Norman Bird, which also came out somewhat later, around the time of Renfrew and Mallory's books.<br />And for those who really want to go to the horse's mouth, so to speak, there is also the Journal of Indo-European Studies, for those with a true scholarly bent (or masochistic bent, as the case may be, which probably includes me, since I've read a lot of academic journals in my life).<br />Interestingly enough, Cavalli-Sforza's research shows an origin for PIE in Anatolia, or what is modern Turkey. This is not that far off from the supposed origin of the proto-Indo-Europeans in the area north of the Caspian and Black Seas, but does push it further south.<br />Overall, a well-done discussion of a fascinating area of ancient history and archaeology for someone wanting a good introduction and grounding in the subject.older but still useful books by George Cardona, Indo-European and Indo-Europeans; Indo-European Language and Society, by Emile Benveniste; The Indo-Europeans in the Fourth and Third Millenia, by Edgar Polome; Ancient Indo-European Dialects, by Birnbaum and Puhvel; Indo-European Philology, by W.B. Lockwood, and The Distribution of Indo-European Root Morphemes, by Norman Bird, which also came out somewhat later, around the time of Renfrew and Mallory's books.<br />And for those who really want to go to the horse's mouth, so to speak, there is also the Journal of Indo-European Studies, for those with a true scholarly bent (or masochistic bent, as the case may be, which probably includes me, since I've read a lot of academic journals in my life).<br />Interestingly enough, Cavalli-Sforza's research shows an origin for PIE in Anatolia, or what is modern Turkey. This is not that far off from the supposed origin of the proto-Indo-Europeans in the area north of the Caspian and Black Seas, but does push it further south.<br />Overall, a well-done discussion of a fascinating area of ancient history and archaeology for someone wanting a good introduction and grounding in the subject.	2002-09-19
1403981:US	45193257	R1U2FX5NPEC75V	0743223136	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An outstanding biography	I'm more of an ancient history buff than a reader of American or modern history, but I picked up this book because of everything I'd heard about it, and I was glad I did. McCullough has likely written one of the greatest American biographies in this very well written and researched book. Adams really comes alive, as we get important glimpses into both the private and public Adams who managed to be both a devoted father and husband as well as the important public figure who was a key player in the momentous events of the early republic. Many of the stories told here are fascinating and not much discussed elsewhere, such as his appearance before the British king, and his ride across Portugal in the middle of winter on horseback. One difficult problem when writing history or biography of this breadth and depth is achieving a fine balance between necessary details and the need to keep the narrative flowing without getting bogged down too much in the details. McCullough accomplishes all this with a deft touch, and his treatment of the different phases of Adams's life also seems both thorough and well balanced. Altogether a fascinating and essential contribution to American history and letters that is likely to become a classic in its own right.<br />On a side note, I learned something interesting about McCullough's methods recently. He is also the author of The Johnstown Flood, his only book on a disaster. Anyway, he patterned the book after a famous, earlier book done about the sinking of the Titanic, A Night to Remember, which became a sensational, international best-seller back in the 50's when it was published, and which was also made into a movie of the same name. McCullough studied the author's methods and the resulting work closely (unfortunately, I don't recall the author's name, anymore) and consciously modeled his disaster book after the earlier work. The Johnstown Flood was also a success, despite it's being something of a departure from his usually less sensational historical and biographical subjects.tional historical and biographical subjects.	2002-09-19
1404640:US	45193257	R2W15CM4SIB7QS	0140513310	912314237	The Penguin Historical Atlas of Ancient Egypt (Hist Atlas)	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Interesting idea	This book provides a great deal of information on 3000 years of Egyptian history in an unusual format. The book consists of many single-page essays on a particular topic or period, with the essay on the left side of the page, and the corresponding map on the other side of the page, which illustrates what's going on in the text. It's sort of an interesting way to write a history book of ancient Egypt, and I thought it worked out pretty well. Although not your typical history, it's still an interesting and useful book, especially for getting a quick overview of a particular subject or topic.	2002-09-19
1404727:US	45193257	RI3B4A210CJNI	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A few miscellaneous comments	The funniest and most devastating summary of Roman history I ever read was in Mendelsohn's novel, Superbaby, in which the main character doesn't seem to like the Romans, and who had this to say about them. (I' ve paraphrased one line, since it's been about 25 years since I read the book, and I'm recalling the quote from memory):<br />\\"The Romans were a dreary bunch of military ruffians. Most of their culture was stolen from the Greeks. Their literature--what I've read of it in translation--is graceless and boring. The Romans were the Nazi's of their day. Maybe that's why they still appeal to people.\\"<br />While I would not go that far perhaps, the Romans, whatever you think of them, were historically extremely important, and I did enjoy reading this book. The author has a very readable and engaging style, and the book benefits from its focus on some of the most interesting and important figures, politically and intellectually, of its day. Cicero is certainly a fascinating character around which to build an historical account, and the story of his life serves as a window on the other people and events of his day. Overall, a very readable and interesting book on this period of Roman history, and a fine biography of an important Roman whose influence has often been underestimated.	2002-09-18
1405312:US	45193257	R2H8OB7JYH386N	0840211023	210845657	Superbaby	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Surprisingly witty and fun	This was a very funny and witty book about the first genetically engineered baby and his life and career, from an author I'd never seen before or since. Besides being a mathmatical genius and the greatest athlete of his time, the main character (Superbaby) has some of the best repartee around. I'll just mention one of these.<br />The funniest and most devastating summary of Roman history I ever read was when he said the following to his very authoritarian German professor/tutor about the Romans, who Superbaby doesn't seem to like. It's been 25 years since I read the book, but I think I have it mostly correct:<br />\\"The Romans were a dreary bunch of military ruffians. Most of their culture was stolen from the Greeks. Their literature--what I've read of it in translation--is graceless and boring. The Romans were the Nazi's of their day. Maybe that's why they still appeal to you.\\"<br />But aside from the witty repartee, the book has an interesting story and still makes for a worthwhile read even though it was published 25 years ago, long before genetic engineering  became a reality. Worth picking up used if you can find a copy. I wish Mendelsohn had written more, but I've never seen anything else by this author.	2002-09-18
1408385:US	45193257	R2H9RBR7KYCZ4Z	0897500873	805287922	The Tiger/Crane Form of Hung Gar Kung-Fu (Literary Links to the Orient)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Classic form	The Tiger/Crane form of Hung Gar kung-fu is one of the great forms, both technically and historically. Many authorities consider Hung Gar, of all the extant styles, to be the one closest to the original Shaolin Temple boxing (and depending on which authority you consult, the total number of kung-fu styles ranges from 300 to 1000). While we may never know for sure which style is the most authentic or the closest to the original style, this form is certainly an important contribution to the art.<br />Kong is an outstanding exponent of this style of kung-fu, and he presents the form with very clear photo sequences. Another plus is he includes photos showing the practical self-defense applications of the more important sections and sequences. Overall, an excellent book and the only one on the subject, and even if you're not a kung-fu practitioner, an interesting addition to your martial-arts library.	2002-09-15
1408849:US	45193257	R3MK5ZCORESIXV	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	11	16	N	N	A few comments	There is no doubt this book was a cute idea, because it's selling like hotcakes. And there is no doubt that there is some validity to the idea of being prepared, both emotionally and mentally, to deal with the inevitable changes that will occur in one's life and job situation.<br />Unfortunately, the book naively assumes that all change in one's life is for the better, and it is simply one's attitude toward it that is wrong-headed. Hence, you just need to understand that fact and learn to be prepared ahead of time to adapt to these things, and all will be well.<br />That is probably a wise strategy, at least on the job, since you probably won't have much choice about it, anyway. In that case, you may as well \\"grin and bear it\\" and get with management's program, whatever it is. And in that cause, this book may provide you with some useful \\"attitude therapy\\" to accomplish that task.<br />And that brings me to my main point. I worked for many years at a large, high-tech company in Silicon Valley. It is one of the most respected companies in its field and is considered to have excellent management. The management believes in really shaking up things about once every 2-3 years, in the interest of making us a leaner/meaner, more adaptive, more responsive, and more dynamic organization.<br />After some years of observing this process, I noticed an interesting phenomenon. In the last several years management has decided to start doing this basically every year. Over the last several years, at least in my particular area of engineering, most of the good people have gotten tired of this constant change for change sake and have left for other, presumably more stable, companies. The result is a organization laden with the less-than-stellar employees who weren't as easily able to leave and find a better job. Apparently the switch from a 2-3 year cycle to a 1 per year cycle was a little too much change from the standpoint of the better employees, who have left, leaving the organization with all the mediocre ones. Now management is wondering why they can't keep their top employees anymore.<br />Eventually (after all the good employees have left), management may realize that because introducing change every 2-3 years is good, doing it every year is even better may be a wrong assumption.<br />Unfortunately, this book isn't likely to cause them to wake up to that fact, but well, one can hope. In the meantime, like Alice in the storybook tale, I am running faster and faster just in order to remain standing still.ganization with all the mediocre ones. Now management is wondering why they can't keep their top employees anymore. <br />Eventually (after all the good employees have left), management may realize that because introducing change every 2-3 years is good, doing it every year is even better may be a wrong assumption.<br />Unfortunately, this book isn't likely to cause them to wake up to that fact, but well, one can hope. In the meantime, like Alice in the storybook tale, I am running faster and faster just in order to remain standing still.	2002-09-14
1410717:US	45193257	R2UZJGEAK0ISTW	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Interesting and relevant	As others have written very complete reviews, I just had a few comments. As I have an interest in linguistics, I enjoyed the chapter on the evolution of the proto-Indo-European language. I also enjoyed the part on the development of the plains horse culture which dominated the area from eastern to western Russia for thousands of years because of their ability to communicate and travel over wide distances using the horse. This explains why countries such as Hungary speak a non-Indo-European language today--the horse riders were stopped at the Great Hungarian Plain--since they would have had to cross the mountains to the west to conquer any further. Thus they were able to impose their language, but because they couldn't venture any further to the west, the peoples there of course speak true Indo-European languages.<br />I recall one odd fact about the plains horseman that I picked up somewhere else. The last gasp of their empire, most of you will recall, was when it was briefly revived by Genghis Kahn and Tamerlane in the 1300s. They practically lived on their horses, and I read once that you could smell the Golden Hordes coming 20 miles downwind. Historians still debate whether they killed either 2.4 or 1.6 million people in some city, might have been Harat, I'm not sure now. But anyway, it sounds like they could kill with their smell just as well.<br />I enjoyed his speculations on some of the other topics also, especially the chapter on why humans use drugs. He discusses the theory that this is the human equivalent to the birds of paradise in New Guinea having tails so large that they're an impediment to movement. This is in effect saying, \\"I'm so tough and capable physically I can still survive even with this big, stupid tail. All you females out there, take note.\\" The person who smokes, drinks, or takes drugs too much is saying the same thing--that they're so tough they can handle the debilitating effects without much harm.<br />His story about Ardy, the Indonesian biologist and martial arts expert, who drinks a glass of kerosene to show how tough he is, was interesting, since I myself am a long-time martial arts student and teacher (although not to the point of drinking glasses of kerosene!), and have even studied a little of the Indonesian art of Pentjak Silat myself. In the book, Diamond says Ardy's a kung-fu expert, but he might actually have been a practitioner of one of the many styles of Silat found in Indonesia, of which some of the better-known styles are Harimau, Perisai-Diri, Tapak Suci, Purguruan, Tjimande, and Pukulan Pentjak Silat.<br />One minor fault. Diamond states that Ardy says he is a \\"kung fu, eighth-level\\" expert, meaning that he can take on 8 guys at once, and mentions Ardy's story about actually doing this one time. However, it's more likely that \\"eighth level\\" refers to an 8th degree black belt, or some similar system of ranking, which they have in common with the more well-known Japanese, Korean, and Okinawan ranking systems in karate, taewondo, judo, jiu-jitsu, and other arts. As I said, I have some knowledge of Silat, and I also hold black belts in three different martial arts and am an instructor myself. But I didn't mind that, as I don't expect Diamond to be very knowledgeable about in martial arts.<br />Overall, I enjoyed reading this book. In addition to the fascinating ideas discussed, many of them are also relevant to the current sad problems and predicaments of humanity and our civilization. The book should be read by anyone with an interest in politics and social policy, not just those with an interest in natural history and biology.an biologist and martial arts expert, who drinks a glass of kerosene to show how tough he is, was interesting, since I myself am a long-time martial arts student and teacher (although not to the point of drinking glasses of kerosene!), and have even studied a little of the Indonesian art of Pentjak Silat myself. In the book, Diamond says Ardy's a kung-fu expert, but he might actually have been a practitioner of one of the many styles of Silat found in Indonesia, of which some of the better-known styles are Harimau, Perisai-Diri, Tapak Suci, Purguruan, Tjimande, and Pukulan Pentjak Silat.<br />One minor fault. Diamond states that Ardy says he is a \\"kung fu, eighth-level\\" expert, meaning that he can take on 8 guys at once, and mentions Ardy's story about actually doing this one time. However, it's more likely that \\"eighth level\\" refers to an 8th degree black belt, or some similar system of ranking, which they have in common with the more well-known Japanese, Korean, and Okinawan ranking systems in karate, taewondo, judo, jiu-jitsu, and other arts. As I said, I have some knowledge of Silat, and I also hold black belts in three different martial arts and am an instructor myself. But I didn't mind that, as I don't expect Diamond to be very knowledgeable about in martial arts.<br />Overall, I enjoyed reading this book. In addition to the fascinating ideas discussed, many of them are also relevant to the current sad problems and predicaments of humanity and our civilization. The book should be read by anyone with an interest in politics and social policy, not just those with an interest in natural history and biology.	2002-09-13
1410963:US	45193257	R1CRQG156XNMVE	0786868686	332156795	Fish! Tales: Real-Life Stories to Help You Transform Your Workplace and Your Life	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable read and practical advice	How a little market in Seattle became the inspiration for a book on how to re-engineer your workplace environment makes a great story just by itself. This book on how you can turn your workplace from a psychological \\"toxic waste dump\\" into one that is positive, energizing, and fun, takes its inspiration from an unlikely source. The ideas here originated, not from some modern, high-tech company's Harvard-MBA-educated yuppie HR director, but from Seattle's Pike St. Fish Market.<br />I live in the Bay Area, but I have visited Seattle many times and I'll never forget the first time I visited the market. It was my first visit to Seattle so I asked someone what I should see.<br />I was surprised, in a city with many beautiful attractions (such as the famous Space Needle), when I was told to check out the Fish Market. I thought this was odd but off I went down to the wharf. I parked and walked over to the concourse where the market was supposed to be and walked along the walkway past all the shops. There are a lot of shops so I just kept walking along for a while. I was about to ask someone if they knew where the Fish Market was when I heard a shout and a large, silvery missile flew threw the air in front of me as the crowd laughed. I had found the fish market.<br />The Fishmongers do this thing where they play catch in front of the store with a large, slippery fish. The fish goes sailing thru the air at high speed and thru the crowd and one of the other fishmonger's catches it and then throws it back. They call out to each other and make jokes all the while they're doing this.<br />In other words, they're obviously having a lot of fun, and they put on a good show for the crowd.<br />When I saw this book, I was delighted that someone had discovered that there really was something special about this Fish Market, and had written a book on their ideas on how to make a better workplace. Many high-tech companies, ironically, are anything but high-tech in terms of their workplace environment, resembling more an anti-high-tech, Luddite-inspired, medieval necropolis than any place you'd want to work at, and this book is full of practical advice on how to change that. Since we spend about 1/3 of our adult lives at work, I can't think of a better reason to listen to the sage and practical advice in this great little book.e environment, resembling more an anti-high-tech, Luddite-inspired, medieval necropolis than any place you'd want to work at, and this book is full of practical advice on how to change that. Since we spend about 1/3 of our adult lives at work, I can't think of a better reason to listen to the sage and practical advice in this great little book.	2002-09-12
1411602:US	45193257	R3H6Q7AL5CDO12	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	5	75	83	N	N	Important but accessible classic	This is probably the most readable book on those mind-boggling questions of cosmology and theoretical physics that engage many of the top minds today. Hawking explains it all in easily understandable language, almost conversationally, and even then, sometimes the concepts are tough sledding. But overall, this is a readable and enjoyable trip along some of the high roads of contemporary physical thought by one of its greatest thinkers. It had been some years since I'd had the time to read much about astronomy and cosmology, and this little book was a great place to start reading up on the subject again.<br />I usually try to do reviews that aren't simply a rehash of the material in the book, but I would like to mention one thing Hawking discusses since it was so ironic. I was taught, of course, about the Big Bang theory in college (and no, it's not about a hot party at Jimi Hendrix's place back in the 60's), and by that time it was pretty much accepted as an established fact. But Hawking points out that originally he had trouble convincing his fellow physicists that a singularity such as the big bang had actually occurred. His fellow physicists eventually came around to his view of things, but it took a while. However, Hawking discovered later that if certain quantum phenomena were brought into the picture, the necessity for a singularity disappeared--so he could have saved himself the trouble of the original controversy!<br />Overall, a great classic by a great scientist and teacher.	2002-09-12
1412075:US	45193257	R2NUSZ0QQ8YPTC	0679762884	227905124	High Output Management	Books	4	42	58	N	N	Sound advice, if they really use it	I worked at Intel for over 5 years, and although this book is chock full of excellent strategies and advice for managers, I saw very little evidence that these principles were being put into use in the company during the entire time I was there, at least in my division, which was one of the bigger ones at the company.<br />I will say, however, that Intel is a very odd place to work with its own unique corporate culture, some of which I would say is quite functional, but a lot of it isn't; or at least, the principles they say do work really don't, because nobody has the nerve to apply them.<br />A good example of this is their principle of &quot;risk-taking.&quot; This gets talked about more than most of the Intel cultural values. The reason is simple, although they say that it's okay to take risks, and that you won't be penalized if you fail, the reality is that no-one in their right mind ever does it if they don't have to. And it's not because your manager will give you a [rear-end]-reaming like you've never had before if your calculated risk fails and becomes a total disaster. That won't happen, because, as I said, they really do take this risk-taking principle seriously. Your boss may even commend you for having the cojones to take the risk even if your little project becomes a spectacular failure.<br />The problem is in a much more serious area, unfortunately. If you fail, you'll get penalized through your performance review. (And if you're an exempt employee, all it takes is two below average performance reviews and you can be fired. They don't even have to be really poor reviews). Suppose you spend 6 months working on a risky project that fails. Now it's review time. Because you wasted so much time on this other project, you won't have very many other successful projects to brag about, compared to all the other employees who didn't have the cojones like you did to take a chance, but who now have lesser but at least successful projects they can ballyhoo during &quot;ranking and rating,&quot; (or &quot;ranting and raving,&quot; as it's called). Hence, you won't be able to compete in Intel's intensive and truly byzantine performance-review process, which insures that people pick safer but less potentially beneficial projects that they know they can pull off and bring in under the wire by review time.<br />Another very odd thing about working there is that teamwork is valued almost over and above technical competence and originality. In fact, I would have to say Intel employees are about the most docile, uncomplaining, non-individualistic, and basically whipped employees I've ever seen. Someone should tell these guys it's okay to have a spine or a ... once in a while, instead of going through their work-life as a totally whipped, spineless eclair. Quite frankly, I'm not the most studly, macho guy in the world, myself, but these guys make me look like Brad Pitt, George Clooney, and Arnold Schwarzenegger all rolled into one.<br />Anyway, whether the principles and strategies in this book are actually being put into practice or not, Andy Grove is certainly a brilliant manager, and Intel is a more than unusually interesting place to work.&quot;ranking and rating,&quot; (or &quot;ranting and raving,&quot; as it's called). Hence, you won't be able to compete in Intel's intensive and truly byzantine performance-review process, which insures that people pick safer but less potentially beneficial projects that they know they can pull off and bring in under the wire by review time.<br />Another very odd thing about working there is that teamwork is valued almost over and above technical competence and originality. In fact, I would have to say Intel employees are about the most docile, uncomplaining, non-individualistic, and basically whipped employees I've ever seen. Someone should tell these guys it's okay to have a spine or a ... once in a while, instead of going through their work-life as a totally whipped, spineless eclair. Quite frankly, I'm not the most studly, macho guy in the world, myself, but these guys make me look like Brad Pitt, George Clooney, and Arnold Schwarzenegger all rolled into one.<br />Anyway, whether the principles and strategies in this book are actually being put into practice or not, Andy Grove is certainly a brilliant manager, and Intel is a more than unusually interesting place to work.	2002-09-11
1420180:US	45193257	R13DF1SL3C41QG	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Better than I thought	First, I'd like to start off by saying that I'm neither a hard-line republican or democrat, or a political ideologue of any particular stripe. I tend to vote by issue and qualifications rather than by party, and therefore I've voted for independent, democrat and republican presidents over the last 30 years. So I'm sort of all over the map poltically, in that sense.<br />... I found myself reading Hannity's book, and I found it interesting reading in a way I hadn't expected. Although I don't always agree with him, Hannity's book is by a compelling and committed young writer who does seem to care about the issues, and wants to get his message across. I will give him credit for that. There is no doubt, after reading his book, where he stands on any of the issues. And although I don't always take the republican or democratic line, I did agree with some of his opinions.<br />My problem with the book is different. I understand we live in dangerous times, underscored by the events of 9/11. I realize we need a strong defense and strong leaders, and that's where I have a problem. People tend to equate strength with carrying a big stick. As Teddy Rooseveldt said, one should speak softly but carry a big stick. While that may be true, the U.S. is also probably the last country left in the world strong enough to force its will on the world, politically or militarily. If we're going to do that, we need to make sure what we're doing is right.<br />I think we did the right thing in Afganistan, for example, although I often think the U.S. too often clumsily meddles in the affairs of foreign countries. (Where are the Talleyrands when you need them?) Anyway, I am certainly, under the circumstances, for a strong defense and military, and for taking action in situations like this, but I'd also like to see the U.S. with leaders who were capable of being true statesmen too, capable of coming up with real, long-term, peaceful solutions, in addition to acting like hard-nosed geopolitical cowboys who like to kick some serious international butt once in a while. (And who usually do a pretty good job of it)...<br />The last thing I wanted to say is that I have great hope and admiration for the American people. They are a great people and have helped more nations and people than they have hurt, have contributed more knowledge, science, and technology to the world than any other country, and have built the strongest, most advanced technologically, and most free country on earth. They deserve the best leaders, also. I  hope that day soon comes to pass.wboys who like to kick some serious international butt once in a while. (And who usually do a pretty good job of it)...<br />The last thing I wanted to say is that I have great hope and admiration for the American people. They are a great people and have helped more nations and people than they have hurt, have contributed more knowledge, science, and technology to the world than any other country, and have built the strongest, most advanced technologically, and most free country on earth. They deserve the best leaders, also. I  hope that day soon comes to pass.	2002-09-04
1421098:US	45193257	R1F5FOZV2HYIOD	0786869003	129957821	The Cell: Inside the 9/11 Plot, and Why the FBI and CIA Failed to Stop It	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Chilling documentary	This book is a sad commentary on our government's ability and willingness to deal with terrorist threats prior to 9/11, if the sheer extent of the beaurocratic delays, indifference, and incompentence of the various agencies and authorities that the authors extensively document is even close to accurate. The authors show how the 1998 African embassy bombings could probably have been prevented, after the 1993 WTC bombing and the murder of a Rabbi in NY in 1990 were traced back to a series of early al Qaeda cells, among many other threads of evidence left behind that were not investigated and followed up on.<br />Even worse, amazingly, there was even an informant, Max, who knew by early 2001 that there was a hijacking plot afoot, but again, the warnings were ignored and nothing was done about it. The authors show how agents on the ground were continually frustrated by everything from beaurocratic infighting to a budget cut of the Anti-Terrorism monies. Well, all I can say is that a few million more for that budget would probably have been cheaper than the several billion the destruction of the World Trade Center and all the other damage to New York cost, not to mention the incalculable loss of life. After reading this book, one can only hope that the situation, post-9/11, is radically different and that this sort of inexcusable long-term neglect by government agencies will never happen again. \\"Eternal vigilance is the price of freedom.\\" Jefferson's comment is all the more relevant today in our present circumstances.	2002-09-03
1422437:US	45193257	RC2V7ZVOPOX40	0736631364	521795432	Naturalist	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Excellent	An engaging and well-written account of the famous biologist's intellectual development from his early to his mature years and most important achievements. Nice discussions of some of his most interesting and important ideas punctuate this history. For example, there's a good section on the origin and development of his ecological ideas and the theory of island biogeography. Wilson is always a cautious but careful writer and thinker, but in a couple of the sections, he gets at least a little bit speculative and is all the more entertaining for it. For example, his discussion of the innateness of our fear of spiders and snakes is entertaining (Wilson himself is very phobic about spiders). Equally entertaining is the section where he discusses people's preference for a particular type of environment or ecology (subalpine or montane foothills parkland or partially wooded savannah with some lakes). Wilson attributes this to it being the environment where we originally evolved. Overall it counts as one of the best scientific biographies I've ever read.	2002-09-02
1422553:US	45193257	R5S9S58EHH37H	1586630687	208237086	Peanuts Treasury	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The comic strip that became a social institution	Peanuts was an interesting comic strip, because it eventually became wildly successful despite the fact that the artwork wasn't that sophisticated (well, let's just call it brilliant in its simplicity); it often dealt with downer themes--the football is always pulled away, the Great Pumpkin never rises from the pumpkin field, Linus remains neurotically dependent on his blanket, Snoopy never gets the Red Baron, and Charlie Brown always gets the shaft; and perhaps most amazing of all--it wasn't that funny. Gary Trudeau once said that Peanuts was the first Beat comic strip, because \\"It vibrated with 50's alienation.\\" Someone I know once eloquently said, \\"Alas, by my day, Schultz not only ran out of ideas, he also ran out of relevance. Kids today don't practice on the piano all day, they use canned beats in MTV Music Generator. Kids today don't play inter-gender football, they have inter-gender sex. Kids today don't read Peanuts.\\"<br />At its height, however, it was being read by 355 million people in 2600 newspapers in 76 countries and in 21 languages daily, becoming the most widely syndicated comic strip of all time. Schultz did well for his labors--making 30 million a year on the comic strip and its commercial product tie-ins, not a bad haul for--let's face it--just drawing a comic strip whose main character's head looked not unlike a pumpkin itself. But Schultz tirelessly and unflaggingly drew the strip for 50 years, outlasting by decades other funnier strips such as Calvin and Hobbes and Gary Larson's The Far Side. In his self-effacing sedulousness, longevity, and ultimate popularity, Schultz became virtually a mass-media phenomenon and institution all by himself, and I give him credit at least for that.	2002-09-01
1423372:US	45193257	R21XX27BQGJL0W	0028005945	296103632	Digital Computer Electronics	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding text	I'm not sure if this is a later edition of the book I used or not 20 years ago, because it was just titled Digital Electronics back them. But if it is, and it's as good as the original edition, it was probably the best introduction to the subject I'd ever read. Clear and concise explanations of basic principles and digital circuit components made this a valuable reference and study book for me. In fact, as a result of reading this book on my own, I was able to test out of the introductory digital circuits class at my college and get into the second semester class. The book was a standard textbook for years at the colleges near my home, and it has taught thousands of electronic hobbyists, technicians, and engineers over the last 20 years this important field of electronics. Truly a great classic by an outstanding teacher.	2002-08-31
1424078:US	45193257	R3NYGRNKLJ57MS	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not great, but still pretty good	I came to this book wondering if it was going to be as good as all the overheated media hype and fluff had made it out to be. It was touted as representing the anger and consciousness of the X generation, and maybe it does. But this story about an alienated loser who creates a violent cult of similarly inclined young men who weekly beat each other up and then plot to destroy society's institutions, although perhaps not great, is still pretty good. It's also reminiscent of the movie, Crash, based on the J.G. Ballard novel, in its theme of a repressed and narcissistic culture of violence that lies just beneath the surface of our otherwise highly polished, technologically advanced society.<br />Since I saw the movie also, I thought I'd briefly comment on it here. Just as with the book, although perhaps not great, it's still pretty good. There are some good scenes in the movie, but some of them I would have done a little differently, which I think would have made them even better and more convincing, but maybe that's just me. I do like Ed Norton as an actor, though, and he is certainly one of our best up-and-coming young stars. All in all, it's a pretty good flick that does justice to the novel and with a fine performance by Norton, and I'd actually give it 3.5 stars if I could.	2002-08-31
1424086:US	45193257	R2DQOEL2AZLXDF	0312194331	464139995	After Man: A Zoology of the Future	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A really fun book	Dixon's creative and fanciful sci-fi zoology of the future makes for entertaining reading. Strikingly illustrated with witty commentary on the different animals, this book is a real blast just to peruse, look at the pictures, and maybe think about if some of these odd-looking creatures could ever come to pass. (In fact, one of my managers in a job I had many years ago resembled one of the monkeys, so perhaps Dixon is on to something here).	2002-08-31
1424442:US	45193257	R253SU66N6TVCM	0609605917	758339585	Portrait of a Burger as a Young Calf: The Story of One Man, Two Cows, and the Feeding of a Nation	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting and readable account	Standing in line in a McDonald's one day with his daughter, the author has one of those epiphanies we've been hearing about in the TV commercials these days--he suddenly realizes the disconnect that exists between his consumption of a hamburger and how much he really knows about those cow's lives and the people who raise them for our delectation. He buys cows number 7 and 8 from a local rancher, and he sets out to raise them himself from calf to burger to find out as much as he can about the process. Recalling Sinclair's The Jungle, the book is an unfliching and detailed look at the entire beef and milk industry, but it also provides interesting insights into the day-to-day lives of the hard-working farmers and ranchers whose business it is to supply these products for our tables. Overall, an interesting and frank account of this area of American farm life.	2002-08-30
1424463:US	45193257	R19W1BWRIFJX2M	0140447210	488915933	The Epic of Gilgamesh: A New Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Excellent	You wouldn't think a 4000-year old story about a dead king would be that interesting or exciting, but actually, I enjoyed this book. The story is the archetypal heroic epic, and has been useful for learning about everything from ancient Mesopotamian beliefs and customs to tracking changes in the traditional scribal curriculum in ancient Akkadia and Sumeria.<br />Speaking of people getting excited, the translater, Andrew George, says a dignified and emminent 19th-century British archaeologist ran naked through his lab when he realized he was the first person in perhaps 2000 years to read an original copy of the story of Noah, once thought to be part of the Epic of Gilgamesh (we now know this isn't true).<br />George also makes the interesting claim that the text is the oldest written text accessible to a modern reader without special archaeological or scholarly knowledge. I found this was borne out by the actual reading, as Gilgamesh's actions and motivations are very easy to understand--he is concerned with fundamental issues of life and death--honor, loyalty, friendship, fear, loss, happiness, and so on.<br />I also enjoyed some of the historical details George provides in the introduction. By 1800 BC, during the time of Hammurabi, Sumerian, which had once been the dominant language in the more advanced, urban south, had died out, leaving only Akkadian, which had been more prevalent in the more rural north. Up till that time, most citizens in the area were accustomed to speaking both languages in their day-to-day affairs. Sumerian still retained the prestige of the scholarly and historical language, however, and in the written scribal curriculum.<br />We actually have clay tablets that go back as far as 2600 BC, according to George, but he points out that these texts are very difficult to translate and understand. It's thought that this is because the language was still making the transition to a full written language, and that this process was incomplete at that time, an interesting theory.<br />An interesting character George discusses is the ancient King Shulgi, who lived around 2000 BC. Shulgi prided himself on both his educational and cultural accomplishments, as well as his athletic and physical prowess, bragging about about his excellence as a student in the scribal schools and as the patron and creator of important public libraries. Shulgi is reminiscent of Gilgamesh and perhaps the king consciously modeled himself after the legendary hero of the famous epic.<br />Anyway, the introduction and epic made for more interesting reading than I had imagined.ime, an interesting theory.<br />An interesting character George discusses is the ancient King Shulgi, who lived around 2000 BC. Shulgi prided himself on both his educational and cultural accomplishments, as well as his athletic and physical prowess, bragging about about his excellence as a student in the scribal schools and as the patron and creator of important public libraries. Shulgi is reminiscent of Gilgamesh and perhaps the king consciously modeled himself after the legendary hero of the famous epic.<br />Anyway, the introduction and epic made for more interesting reading than I had imagined.	2002-08-30
1424767:US	45193257	R3IAAVZ84WK8G	0029050707	662441423	Origins of Modern Science 1300-1800	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Classic work	I discovered this book at the age of 15 in a box of one of my father's college books. I ended up reading it, and it sparked an interest in the history of science and technology, as well as the philosophy of science. I ended up reading perhaps a dozen other books in these two areas before I even got to college, becoming fairly knowledgeable about the subjects while still a fairly young teenager, and I continued these studies in college, even though I ultimately majored in something else--neurobiology. I have Butterfield's classic work to thank for this, and although I understand there are better histories on the subject now, it nevertheless fulfilled an important role in my early intellectual development.	2002-08-30
1424917:US	45193257	R1ZOGIZZBPKRZL	0449908585	522504663	Happy Isles of Oceania: Paddling the Pacific	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Dyspeptic travelogue	Theroux's bittersweet and even dyspeptic travelogue about the faded glories of Oceania and it's current sad state (if one credits everything he says) isn't going to entertain so much as depress you, but I found it fascinating nevertheless. His description of the formerly proud and warlike Marquesas Islanders, for example, who were never conquered, was especially poignant, describing them as getting fat from sitting around watching TV all day while eating bags of imported French cheese puffs. From what Theroux says, one gets the impression that much of French Polynesia subsists on care packages of junk food sent from France, since there's not a whole lot of work sailing outrigger canoes or conquering neighboring islands to be done anymore. Well, I would like to get another perspective on this but despite its overall downer theme I still found Theroux's comments interesting, and hopefully, things aren't as bad as he described.	2002-08-30
1425031:US	45193257	R2311QODELJ7AP	1561709743	192062931	How to Ruin Your Life	Books	4	33	36	N	N	Witty and funny	Ben Stein has been a securities lawyer, a Nixon speech writer, a game-show host, a journalist, and a speaker on success and financial management. If there's a wittier polymath out there I don't know who it is.<br />This book takes a perversely witty approach to the subject of success, not by showing you what makes for success, but by showing you 35 things you can do to avoid it. The book consists of brief essays on each of these topics, which include subjects such as never learn any useful skills, be perfectionistic, constantly criticize and never say anything nice to anybody, and in general, act like a jerk to anyone and everybody, including your friends and family (who needs them anyway?).<br />Stein says he got the idea for the book because, as he points out in the introduction, he's done more things in life than most people, and so he's had more opportunities to see people screw up perfectly good careers and lives than just about anybody else, too. So if you understand what these things are and avoid them, you may not become amazingly successful, but you'll probably do all right and possibly will become a great success yourself someday.	2002-08-30
1425527:US	45193257	R1JVZ3OMGVQ440	0213017679	639470871	History of Greek Literature	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great introduction	Excellent work by outstanding scholar. Covers drama, poetry, history, philosophy, oratory, pretty much the whole gambit. Author dicusses literally hundreds of different writers. There is no way you will remember all of them, because besides the usual suspects like Herodotus, Homer, Thucydides, Sappho, Sophocles, Euripides, Aeschylus, Apuleius (author of The Golden Ass, and no, it's not about Bill Gates, no matter how rich he is), and so on, there are hundreds of others you've probably never heard of, but at least after you've read this book, you will have seen their names mentioned in some context and learned something about each of them, and a lot more about the more prominent ones such as those mentioned above. It just goes to show you how many classical authors' work got preserved, and makes me wonder what got lost in the fire at the library at Alexandria.	2002-08-29
1425562:US	45193257	R2U6A5PSL6VY7F	0385484267	164223730	A Field Guide to Germs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Informative and entertaining	For witty and informative science writing on a scary topic, you can't beat this little book. This entertaining as well as very informative little guide is about all the nasty little bugs that feed on us humans, written in a darkly humorous and even satirical style. You wouldn't think that a writer could make so many nasty diseases entertaining and even fun to read about, but Biddle has managed it in this great little book.<br />Besides the usual tropical diseases such as malaria and sleeping sickness, there are essays on things you've never heard of, and after reading about them, probably won't want to hear about ever again, such as Kala Azar, o-nyong-nyong, shigella (also known as dysentery), schistosomiasis, and many others.<br />Biddle also is adept at turning a phrase. For example, here is how he describes malaria: \\"The life cycle of the malaria trypanosome is one of nature's darksome wonders.\\" A reviewer here mentioned another good one. Writing about the microbial fungus, candida albicans, he says \\"Even the most squeeky clean athlete has a lot in common with a rotten tree trunk.\\"<br />The book consists of short essays, usually a page or two in length, on the natural history and pathology of bacteria, viruses and microbial disease-causing and other parasitic organisms. Although I was a biology major in college and took courses in microbiology and even virology, I still found this to be an interesting and informative book despite it's being aimed at the general reader. In fact, this is one of the most enjoyable pieces of science writing I've ever come across by chance.<br />This book is well worth your time and money, although it's certain to turn you into a hypochondriac. At the very least, you'll never want to set foot in the tropics or outside the borders of the U.S., with its 5-star sewage and plumbing, ever again.	2002-08-29
1425579:US	45193257	ROA5KRBRC9ZNC	0375404031	295818442	The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific book	Well written and superbly documented book on Shackleton's heroic but ill-fated antarctic expedition. The photos are worth the price of the book by themselves--and even they have a dramatic story--they were retrieved by Hurley, the ship's photographer, after having been submerged in water for a number of days as the ship was finally breaking up.<br />Hurley kept a detailed diary and his comments on the men are one of the most interesting aspects of the book. We learn that while the men were stranded on the pack ice, many of them often with very little to do at that point, the tireless and indefatigable ship's carpenter was hard at work patching up the two long boats--their only hope of rescue--with a combination of penguin fat and blood. And that the strongest man in the crew, (unfortunately I don't recall his name), although tough and dependable, occasionally caused friction among the men with his \\"bullying manner.\\" Shackleton, who knew his men well, observed this and took steps to minimize it by keeping the man with him rather than leaving him alone with the rest of the crew. Shackleton comes across as a fine leader, almost singlehandedly keeping the morale of the men up despite knowing full well their desperate circumsances.<br />The 800-mile voyage of the long boat from the pack ice where they were trapped to their landing on South Georgia Island, and their crossing of the interior of the island (which had never been done either), is one of the most amazing seafaring feats and tales of survival of all time. After having made the voyage, they could easily have perished in a crevasse or crevice crossing the interior of the island, but they survived this final dangerous crossing and made it to Norwegian whaling station on the other side of the island, where they were finally able to get help. Their meeting with the Norwegians, no strangers themselves to the dangers of arctic waters, and who were rightly amazed by this heroic feat, also makes for interesting reading.<br />But the tale didn't stop there. Because of the war and beaurocratic delays, it was almost a year before Shackleton could get back to the pack ice to rescue the rest of his men--and with a steel Argentinian tugboat rather than a British ship. It took him three tries and even then he only just got them out before the pack ice closed up again.<br />Overall, a dramatic and absorbing account of an amazing expedition. This is book to curl up with near the fire with a hot cup of tea on a cold wintry night, with the freezing wind howling outside like the groans of the Endurance as it was crushed by the pack ice.<br />But the tale didn't stop there. Because of the war and beaurocratic delays, it was almost a year before Shackleton could get back to the pack ice to rescue the rest of his men--and with a steel Argentinian tugboat rather than a British ship. It took him three tries and even then he only just got them out before the pack ice closed up again.<br />Overall, a dramatic and absorbing account of an amazing expedition. This is book to curl up with near the fire with a hot cup of tea on a cold wintry night, with the freezing wind howling outside like the groans of the Endurance as it was crushed by the pack ice.	2002-08-29
1426275:US	45193257	R2NRJEOW8FHAS4	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Good despite a few flaws	Since each week seems to bring another tragic news story of an abducted and murdered teenage girl, you couldn't ask for a novel on a more current topic. Beyond the book's timeliness, however, is an absorbing and compelling story that I found I enjoyed more than I was expecting for a first-time novel. The book has its faults, of course, but overall it's a creditable effort, and except for a few purple prose passages I could have done without, it's a well written, suspenseful, and moving story.	2002-08-28
1426405:US	45193257	RG3L7IKTN8B51	0743202228	112396348	A Mind at a Time	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A practical and positive approach	When I was studying psychology and neurobiology almost 30 years ago, the big learning dichotomy was between visually minded people and auditorily minded people, of which 80% were visual and 20% auditory, it was thought. It was felt our school systems catered largely to visual types, and so the auditory types got short shrift.<br />Then came another famous dichotomy, the great Roger Sperry's theory of left- and right-brained people, an idea that so galvanized and captured the popular imagination that it became a permanent part of our popular culture. Again, our system was thought to do a better job of educating the more analytical left-brained types than the more creative, spatial, and intuitive right-brained types.<br />Since then other eminent psychologists, such as Howard Gardner, with his theory of frames and multiple intelligences, have propounded similar ideas. Whether or not any of these theories has had much impact on the educational process, there is no doubt that our system of mass education lacks the awareness of, and the ability to make the most of, each child's particular set of abilities and particular learning mode.<br />Levine's book is yet another contribution to this historical tradition, arguing like Gardner that our system of mass education results in a tremendous loss of human potential. He proposes children fall into one of 8 different learning modes, and suggests ways for us to deal with the special developmental and educational needs of each of these different types. The book also contains valuable discussions on the development of memory, language, and motor skills.<br />Whether Levine's 8-fold system is the last word on learning modes or not, it still goes far beyond the capabilities of our present educational system's ability to implement. But if we could even implement some of the changes Levine suggests, the improvements could be dramatic. Levine's message is timely and his approach compelling, and is perhaps just what our ailing, cookie-cutter educational system needs to do to truly teach and educate our children.e-cutter educational system needs to do to truly teach and educate our children.	2002-08-28
1426411:US	45193257	R2S4D0KAMER7UB	0446602744	275856268	The Rules: Time-Tested Secrets for Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right	Books	4	11	18	N	N	Practical advice	I just had a few observations to make, and they perhaps have more to do with the human behavior this book discusses rather than with the quality of the book itself, which I thought had at least a few good, pieces of practical advice.<br />This book isn't for the committed feminists out there--because it advises women to go back to the \\"old rules,\\" with the woman playing traditionally hard-to-get and letting the man be the pursuer. But it seems to be the kind of advice many women are looking for. It's interesting, because I recently also read \\"Getting to I Do,\\" and it also suggests women go back to the traditionally more feminine role--even to the extent of recommending witholding sex until you get a commitment from the man that he's really serious about the relationship, and even marriage.<br />But getting back to the present book, which seems to be much more controversial, but it basically also urges women to use the same strategy and go back to a more traditionally feminine approach to the dating and mating game.<br />This seems to have offended some reviewers, but to have struck a responsive chord with many others. One reviewer who denigrated the book's advice said its approach was manipulative, dishonest, and that it was only good for getting your \\"average, beer-drinking guy.\\" By implication, this suggests that you couldn't get a quality guy by following this advice (whatever a \\"quality guy\\" would be).<br />Maybe so, but what this reviewer doesn't seem to understand is that the vast majority of women are average too--not just the vast majority of men. And therefore the average woman might be quite content with the average guy, and vice-versa...What a \\"quality\\" guy was, however, she didn't say--maybe a \\"wine-drinking guy?\\" And maybe a \\"cognac- drinking guy\\" would be even better? In any case, it seems pretty obvious to me that in the dating and mating game it's \\"different strokes for different folks\\" just as in many other areas of life.<br />Anyway, all that was just by way of saying I didn't see the book's approach as a negative or inherently insulting to either men and women, although I realize you could perhaps argue about the morality or details of some of its rules--but probably not about the results--since many of the reviewers here feel they do indeed work.<br />My problem with the book is different, and it's about an issue the book really doesn't discuss. It's not about the morality of the book's approach, or whether it goes against 40 years of women's liberation, or whether it's insulting to both men and women, or whether it's only good for catching your \\"average, beer-drinking guy.\\" The problem for me is the concept of \\"Mr. Right\\" itself, and that's because for many women, perhaps most women, \\"Mr. Right\\" unfortunately is some studly, flashy, macho guy, who they then fall for, maybe even marry, and then they complain when he isn't \\"sensitive.\\"<br />Well, what did they expect? If you're attracted to someone because of very superficial qualities, don't be surprised when they don't have the more important deeper qualities that a real relationship requires. Of course, there's the possiblity you might be able to change him, but from what I've seen, satisfying a woman's emotional and intimacy needs isn't exactly this sort of guy's most important goal in life.<br />However, the men are in no better shape. Men are often attracted to these beautiful women who are probably horrible human beings to begin with, and then are surprised when these women drive them crazy with their narcissistic, selfish ways and their gold-digger mentalities. Again, when you're mainly attracted by very superficial qualities you have no-one but yourself to blame for your problems.<br />On the other hand, real beauty is just as likely to scare a man off as to attract him, whereas prettiness properly handled can be a much more advantageous asset. Ironically, that leaves the beautiful women to be pursued by the macho, studly guys I spoke of earlier whodon't lack for confidence but who lack just about every other important human quality, or at least the other qualities a woman wants. So it seems the really beautiful women, who our superficial society virtually lionizes, worships and holds up as ideals--are destined to have no trouble attracting men but spending most of their time unhappy or miserable with the results.<br />Well, maybe that's life, or just human behavior, and there isn't much that can be done about it. Still, this book has some practical advice for navigating the treacherous waters of the modern dating and relationship game, and for those who still have the courage to brave the waters, the knowledge in this book should be a good life-preserver.don't lack for confidence but who lack just about every other important human quality, or at least the other qualities a woman wants. So it seems the really beautiful women, who our superficial society virtually lionizes, worships and holds up as ideals--are destined to have no trouble attracting men but spending most of their time unhappy or miserable with the results.<br />Well, maybe that's life, or just human behavior, and there isn't much that can be done about it. Still, this book has some practical advice for navigating the treacherous waters of the modern dating and relationship game, and for those who still have the courage to brave the waters, the knowledge in this book should be a good life-preserver.	2002-08-28
1426725:US	45193257	R3TFJH456O7H8L	002802253X	138603037	Grob: Basic Electronics (Electronics Books Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The classic	I used one of the original editions, or close to it (the one with the green cloth cover), 35 years ago in my high-school electronics and electricity class, and my edition might have been published in the 50's. This book is the latest edition of this now venerable classic, and it retains the clear and concise explanations of basic principles that the original was renowned for. Grob's book has taught thousands of radiomen, electronics technicians, and engineers over the last half century or more. It's practically an educational institution in and of itself. Truly a great classic in its field.	2002-08-28
1428483:US	45193257	R5HS8D8Z621JH	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Short but powerful	I just had a few brief comments. Conrad is one of the few novelists, such as Melville, Tolstoy, Dostoevski, Stern and Swift, whose work really impresses me. Partly this is because of the power and depth of his prose and his themes, and partly because English wasn't even his native language--he even learned it as an adult on shipboard. Heart of Darkness is one of his shortest, although greatest works in this sense, and after having read it in high school, I recently reacquainted myself with it after 30 years. I was just as impressed as I was back then. Truly a great book by one of history's greatest authors.	2002-08-27
1429708:US	45193257	R22HIYV65IFIVO	0810203979	961363535	Philosophies and Philosophers (Chandler publications in philosophy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A favorite	This is one of my favorite philosophy books for reviewing and just boning up on the different systems of thought. Hunnex provides excellent brief discussions at the bottom of each chart page that are some of the best capsule summaries of the different philosophical positions I've ever read. The charts are also a wonderful and fascinating way of tracing the history of the different philosophical systems, and they're worth buying the book just by themselves. Although out of print for some years, definitely worth your time and money trying to find used.	2002-08-25
1429851:US	45193257	R3T9FGTV1OQYBC	0822011298	703003817	Plato's the Republic: Notes	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Excellent guide, learned a lot	I found this to be a clear, concise, and well written quide to understanding this venerable work. The author covers many topics, from the social and historical context of the work to the more abstract philosophical ideas. It helped me to better appreciate this important work and I learned a lot that was valuable and even useful.<br /><br />I had a few comments myself to make. There might now be much I can add in a scholarly vein to what people have already said about Plato. But I thought I would make a few personal observations from the standpoint of a somewhat philosophically literate, 21st century man who is reading such an august classic in middle age.<br /><br />I came to this book with more of a background in modern epistemology and the philosophy of science than in classical philosophy. So political philosophy isn't exactly my strong suit, but nevertheless I found the book interesting reading in a way I hadn't really thought of before.<br /><br />Actually, I had read portions of this book 20 years ago when I was a young student first studying philosophy, and I have to say, there is something to be said for having a more mature outlook in approaching such a venerable work. At the time I thought political philosophy pretty dull stuff, and besides, I felt there was no real way to answer any of the important political questions that get debated here, despite the easy way Socrates disposes of everybody else's half-baked opinions and theories.<br /><br />The fact is, if you move ahead 2400 years and read something like Karl Popper's \\"The Open Society and Its Enemies,\\" an advanced modern work, you can see how much, or how little, political philosophy has progressed in the last 24 centuries.<br /><br />Well, that may be true, but at least with this book you know where it basically all started. The best way to decide this issue is to read the book and decide for yourself.<br /><br />Although entitled \\"The Republic,\\" this society isn't like any republic you've probably ever read about. Plato proposes an ant- like communism where there is no private ownership of property, philosophers are kings, kings are philosophers, people cultivate physical, moral, and ethical qualities, and the idea of the good takes the place of political and social virtues.<br /><br />Another odd facet is that the bravest citizens are permitted more wives than those less brave in battle. And then there is the infamous proposition that all poets and artists are to be banished since they are harmful purveyors of false illusions.<br /><br />I find the Socratic method as a way of moving along the dialogue between the participants sort of interesting, and it is certainly an effective device. However, none of these people, even the famous Sophist Thrasymachus, are really Socrates' intellectual equal, so he really doesn't have much competition here.<br /><br />(Cheap shot from the \\"Peanut Gallery\\"--not to digress too much, here, but if Socrates was supposed to be so wise, how come he married such a shrewish woman for a wife, Xantippe? They joked about how funny and incongruous that was even in Socrates's day).<br /><br />If ancient Athens disproportionately had so many towering intellects, relative to its small population (about 20,000 people, most of whom were slaves anyway), you'd think they would show up in Plato's dialogues more. But all we seem to get are second- raters who are really no match for the clever Socrates. Of course, since the dialogues we have were written down by Socrates' most famous student, Plato, perhaps the cards were stacked a little in his teacher's favor.<br /><br />Yet I would say this is still a great book. Classical scholars say there are more perfect, less flawed dialogues than Plato's Republic, but none that are as profound, wide-ranging, and as influential and important for later philosophy. As someone once wrote, in a sense the entire history of western philosophy \\"consists of nothing but footnotes to Plato.\\" After finally readingit, I can see why there is so much truth to that statement.<br /><br />I also had a brief comment to make on Plato's theory of justice.<br /><br />Early on in the book there is the famous exchange between Socrates and the Sophist, Thrasymachus. Socrates asks him for his definition of Justice, and Thasymachus responds that \\"Justice is the interest of the stronger.\\"<br /><br />Socrates then uses his famous eponymous method to seemingly demolish the Sophist's position, and then presents his own view instead.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I have to agree with Thrasymachus here, if only on practical and historical grounds. Justice usually is the interest of the stronger. Perhaps this is not what Justice should be in human and social terms, but that's the reality.<br /><br />Socrates' definition is a nice ideal, but rarely works out that way in practice. If one thinks of Thrasymachus' definition as simply pragmatic and realistic, and Socrates' definition as being the ideal that a true republic (or whatever society) should strive for, then I think this is a more accurate view of the situation. Socrates makes Thrasymachus' idea appear invalid, but in fact, his idea is more accurate in terms of how things actually work out in most parts of the world (and even in the US) than is Socrates' idea.<br /><br />Not that this is right or even desirable, it's just the way things are.After finally reading it, I can see why there is so much truth to that statement. <br /> <br />I also had a brief comment to make on Plato's theory of justice. <br /> <br />Early on in the book there is the famous exchange between Socrates and the Sophist, Thrasymachus. Socrates asks him for his definition of Justice, and Thasymachus responds that \\"Justice is the interest of the stronger.\\"  <br /> <br />Socrates then uses his famous eponymous method to seemingly demolish the Sophist's position, and then presents his own view instead.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately, I have to agree with Thrasymachus here, if only on practical and historical grounds. Justice usually is the interest of the stronger. Perhaps this is not what Justice should be in human and social terms, but that's the reality.  <br /> <br />Socrates' definition is a nice ideal, but rarely works out that way in practice. If one thinks of Thrasymachus' definition as simply pragmatic and realistic, and Socrates' definition as being the ideal that a true republic (or whatever society) should strive for, then I think this is a more accurate view of the situation. Socrates makes Thrasymachus' idea appear invalid, but in fact, his idea is more accurate in terms of how things actually work out in most parts of the world (and even in the US) than is Socrates' idea.  <br /> <br />Not that this is right or even desirable, it's just the way things are.	2002-08-25
1430007:US	45193257	R2I6MJNDF7KIRC	0870115154	651485849	The Toynbee-Ikeda Dialogue:  Man Must Choose	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great idea for a book	This is one of the best debates I ever came across. Toynbee and Ikeda are both great scholars, but they approach historical issues from different perspectives--Toynbee from the west, and Ikeda from the east, with a more Buddhist perspective. They both have the same concerns and the similarities and differences between their philosophies makes for fascinating reading. This was a very welcome book given my intersest in the great F.S.C. Northrup's ideas, who was concerned himself with interpreting the meeting between east and west in his writings. As a result of reading Northrup, I now know that the meaning of life is that it consists of the infinitely regressive consciousness of the undifferentiated aesthetic continuum! (Yes, it's as simple as that). This book also sheds a great deal of light on the philosophical meeting of east and west. Altogether a fine book by two great scholars.	2002-08-25
1430320:US	45193257	R13DTEWY0M2DSM	0060188790	825706539	The Perricone Prescription: A Physician's 28-Day Program for Total Body and Face Rejuvenation	Books	4	51	57	N	N	A new idea	Perricone's basic idea is that you can rejuvenate your skin more from the inside than the outside. In other words, the best way to keep your skin looking young and healthy is through diet, eating the healthful foods, and avoiding the bad ones, rather than by putting on lots of expensive creams and lotions. I like this idea since there are lots of other reasons why you should eat a healthier, low-fat diet anyway--such as keeping your heart and blood vessels and other organs healthy, keeping your weight down, and so on. Avoiding high-fat, high-calorie foods and maintaining a healthier diet, exercising, and perhaps avoiding stress (I know, hard to do these days) are still the best way we know to live a long, happy, healthy life, so why not apply the same principles to your skin? <br />I would like see some other scientific evidence on the effectiveness of diet in controlling skin aging, and especially on some of the more controversial aspects of Perricone's nutritional theories. For example, he recommends avoiding carrots, long considered healthy because of their containing beta-carotenes and other anti-oxidants, because of their high glycemic index. Fruit, although high in anti-oxidants, also fall into this high-glycemic category, producing an insulin spike from the pancreas, which is bad because you will store fats rather than burn them. <br />My understanding on this was that you should prefer foods containing monosaccarides such as galactose and glucose, rather than disaccharides such as sucrose, because sucrose was hard on the pancreas and caused insulin spikes, but the simpler sugars didn't, being digested and broken down more gradually over time. Also, not being able to eat any fruit is sure to be a difficult recommendation to follow for many people, maybe more difficult for them than avoiding beef, for example. I found his disussion of why you should eat wild salmon as opposed to farm-raised salmon interesting, but again, I'd like to see more  evidence on this.<br />I found his recommendation that you should avoid carbs such as cereals and breads interesting since it's what diabetics need to do--they can eat all the protein they want--but they need to avoid sugar and complex carbs. But unless you're diabetic, most experts don't think you need to do this. Finally, there is now evidence that saturated fats and oils such as cocoanut oil, long-considered a real bad guy, don't produce oxidants and free radicals in the body, but that polyunsaturated fats and oils do. <br />Perricone also includes a lot information on vitamins and minerals, which I found to be more helpful and less controversial than his other nutritional recommendations.<br />Altogether, an interesting book with a different slant on skin aging and nutrition in general, but again, I'd like to see more independent evidence on some of the more controversial aspects of his nutritional ideas. His recommendations on exercise, vitamins, and keeping your weight down are hard to fault, however, and overall, I found the book's advice and message to be positive even if I remain somewhat sceptical on some of his nutritional theories.	2002-08-25
1430355:US	45193257	R1HXXOGLXJVFRD	0465069347	64542062	The Republic of Plato: Second Edition	Books	5	23	27	N	N	The classic--what did you expect?	There probably isn't much I can add in a scholarly vein to what people have already said about Plato. So I thought I would make a few personal observations from the standpoint of a somewhat philosophically literate, 21st century man who is reading such an august classic in middle age.<br /><br />I came to this book with more of a background in modern epistemology and the philosophy of science than in classical philosophy. So political philosophy isn't exactly my strong suit, but nevertheless I found the book interesting reading in a way I hadn't really thought of before.<br /><br />Actually, I had read portions of this book 20 years ago when I was a young student first studying philosophy, and I have to say, there is something to be said for having a more mature outlook in approaching such a venerable work. At the time I thought political philosophy pretty dull stuff, and besides, I felt there was no real way to answer any of the important political questions that get debated here, despite the easy way Socrates disposes of everybody else's half-baked opinions and theories.<br /><br />The fact is, if you move ahead 2400 years and read something like Karl Popper's \\"The Open Society and Its Enemies,\\" an advanced modern work, you can see how much, or how little, political philosophy has progressed in the last 24 centuries.<br /><br />Well, that may be true, but at least with this book you know where it basically all started. The best way to decide this issue is to read the book and decide for yourself.<br /><br />Although entitled \\"The Republic,\\" this society isn't like any republic you've probably ever read about. Plato proposes an ant- like communism where there is no private ownership of property, philosophers are kings, kings are philosophers, people cultivate physical, moral, and ethical qualities, and the idea of the good takes the place of political and social virtues.<br /><br />Another odd facet is that the bravest citizens are permitted more wives than those less brave in battle. And then there is the infamous proposition that all poets and artists are to be banished since they are harmful purveyors of false illusions.<br />I find the Socratic method as a way of moving along the dialogue between the participants sort of interesting, and it is certainly an effective device. However, none of these people, even the famous Sophist Thrasymachus, are really Socrates' intellectual equal, so he really doesn't have much competition here.<br /><br />If ancient Athens disproportionately had so many towering intellects, relative to its small population (about 20,000 people, most of whom were slaves anyway), you'd think they would show up in Plato's dialogues more. But all we seem to get are second- raters who are really no match for the clever Socrates. Of course, since the dialogues we have were written down by Socrates' most famous student, Plato, perhaps the cards were stacked a little in his teacher's favor.<br /><br />Yet I would say this is still a great book. Classical scholars say there are more perfect, less flawed dialogues than Plato's Republic, but none that are as profound, wide-ranging, and as influential and important for later philosophy. As someone once wrote, in a sense the entire history of western philosophy \\"consists of nothing but footnotes to Plato.\\" After finally reading it, I can see why there is so much truth to that statement.ess brave in battle. And then there is the infamous proposition that all poets and artists are to be banished since they are harmful purveyors of false illusions.<br />I find the Socratic method as a way of moving along the dialogue between the participants sort of interesting, and it is certainly an effective device. However, none of these people, even the famous Sophist Thrasymachus, are really Socrates' intellectual equal, so he really doesn't have much competition here.<br /><br />If ancient Athens disproportionately had so many towering intellects, relative to its small population (about 20,000 people, most of whom were slaves anyway), you'd think they would show up in Plato's dialogues more. But all we seem to get are second- raters who are really no match for the clever Socrates. Of course, since the dialogues we have were written down by Socrates' most famous student, Plato, perhaps the cards were stacked a little in his teacher's favor.<br /><br />Yet I would say this is still a great book. Classical scholars say there are more perfect, less flawed dialogues than Plato's Republic, but none that are as profound, wide-ranging, and as influential and important for later philosophy. As someone once wrote, in a sense the entire history of western philosophy \\"consists of nothing but footnotes to Plato.\\" After finally reading it, I can see why there is so much truth to that statement.	2002-08-25
1431884:US	45193257	R2391IMJWXHOYG	0312420331	603875347	Crash: A Novel	Books	5	128	158	N	N	Weird even for Ballard	I've been a fan of J.G. Ballard's ever since I read The Drowned World and The Wind from Nowhere, both dramatic and imposing mood pieces about the end of the world. Ballard's prose has a heavy, sensual languidness to it suited to these dark themes, some of which derives from his unhurried rhythm and pacing. In fact, his prose seems to have an almost oxymoronic, somnolent muscularity and strength--a quality that certain Buddhist statues, which are said to represent \\"the spirit of strength in repose\\"--are also said to possess, interestingly enough. (I suspect Ballard himself would be amused by such a recondite association). And as another reviewer here remarked, perhaps his prose is something of an acquired taste.<br />But getting back to the book, this story about a strange and disturbing subculture that has evolved a sexual obsession and fetish for crashing automobiles is no doubt one of the more bizarre ideas for a novel ever created. The members even go so far as to create and re-enact fatal  \\"classic\\" car crashes from the past--such as the one that killed James Dean or Jane Mansfield. Its theme also reminded me of the recent movie, the Fight Club, in its idea of a repressed and narcissistic culture of violence that lies just beneath the surface of our otherwise highly polished, technologically advanced society.<br />Since I also saw the movie, I thought I would comment on it here. I didn't think I was going to like the book or the film originally, even though I'm a fan of Ballard's, but I found I actually liked it a lot despite my initial misgivings. Partly, this was because I happened to hear an interview on the radio where Ballard discussed how he got the idea for the book, and which helped to explain it at least somewhat. Well, maybe. It's still pretty weird. Anyway, I'll recount the story here for those who missed the interview. It was on National Public Radio.<br />Ballard said he got the idea from passing a fatal traffic accident where a beautiful women had been killed, and you could see everything from the road as you drove by. The woman's body had ended up mostly nude on the rear deck of the passenger compartment, and he said people were driving by gawking at the scene and rubbernecking, and he suddenly got the idea that the whole thing was very erotic for them despite the obviously tragic circumstances and the woman's untimely death. At that point the link between eroticism, car crashes, and death was made, and he was off and running with his bizzare new story idea.<br />I thought Spader, Koteas, Unger, and Hunter were excellent in their roles, and that also helped to make an otherwise implausible film more realistic. Of course, it's a David Cronenberg film, so what was I expecting? Well, I was probably expecting lots of weird sex and violence--such as the scene in his Naked Lunch, based on the Burroughs book, where the guy is getting anally raped by an 8-foot high half-human, half-centipede creature (Ballard, take note). Well, I like his movies usually, but this one was pretty weird even for someone with Cronenberg's predilection for darkly disturbing themes, and it certainly stands out as one of the more bizarre films on the theme of sex and violence, or on the relationship between sex and violence.<br />*Irreverent scientific footnote:<br />And if humans think their sex has an element of violence in it--they should see how marine flatworms do it. It's called \\"penis fencing.\\" The flatworms duel it out with their gigantic penises (eat your heart out, John \\"H.\\" Holmes) and the first one to stab his big sharp dork through the skin of the other implants his sperm, causing the other flatworm to become pregnant and give birth whether he wants to or not. Biologists also think that these flatworms were the first multicellular animals to have sexual reproduction as we know it, which means that sex and violence have been linked ever since its earliest evolutionary origins.<br />*Irrevent literary footnote:<br />I was in a bookstore recently, and I opened up a book of Greek plays at random, and this was the first line I saw in a play by Euripides: \\"We are a group of men with large erections; we roam around the city, we take what we want.\\"<br />It just goes to show you that those old flatworms and Greeks were on the right track, after all. (Ballard and Cronenberg, take note).<br />It makes me wonder..a bookstore recently, and I opened up a book of Greek plays at random, and this was the first line I saw in a play by Euripides: \\"We are a group of men with large erections; we roam around the city, we take what we want.\\"<br />It just goes to show you that those old flatworms and Greeks were on the right track, after all. (Ballard and Cronenberg, take note).<br />It makes me wonder..	2002-08-23
1432959:US	45193257	R2SZ6KP7GP7U8N	0802132189	415743636	Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings	Books	3	18	35	N	N	Overrated	Despite the fact that de Sade's works have become virtually cult classics because of their raw descriptions of sex, I found these books to be sort of boring. Although the obsession with various and sundry sexual proclivities does add to the overall interest and weirdness factor, it's not enough to save these books, either. Basically, when it comes to sex, for de Sade it comes down to the \\"four B's\\"--somebody is always being ..., buggered, blown, or beaten. Big deal. You can get this on videotape. You can probably get it in an R-rated movie these days.<br />Some of the political philosophy is interesting in the historical context of the time, but if you want real philosophy, instead of parlor-level simplifications, I suggest you read works of real political philosophy, such as Plato's Republic or Karl Popper's The Open Society and Its Enemies, for example, instead of an amateur's afternoon thoughts. Unfortunately, de Sade seems to be at his most profound when his pants are around his ankles (or should I say pantaloons?) Anyway, de Sade and the emperor Tiberius would have made an interesting sexual \\"tag- team\\" for Masters and Johnson to research, perhaps, but a profound author he's not.<br />I will say one nice thing about de Sade, which is that he does know how to turn a literary phrase once in a while, but that's about it. Give this over-heated and libidinous libertine the cold shoulder.	2002-08-22
1433136:US	45193257	R2T8FJ8RM77H4B	0446673781	302948748	One L: The Turbulent True Story of a First Year at Harvard Law School	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Suspenseful and interesting account	Intense is the only word to describe Turow's taut, melodramatic account of 1st-year student life at Harvard Law School. Turow's description of the emotional roller-coaster of that first year--ranging from excitement and fascination to shear panic and deep depression, will keep you on the edge of your seat.<br />I understand that things have changed a lot at Harvard, as well as other law schools, since when it was written 25 years ago (which is good), but if you want to find out what it was like before the winds of a more humane milieu blew through it's vaunted corridors, there is no better account than Turow's book.<br />I never attended law school, but I can certainly sympathize with Turow's position as a result of my own experiences. One of the schools I attended in the late 70's, about the time Turow was at HLS, had the highest suicide rate of any school in the state (and it was a big state with lots of colleges), and there were enough depressed and suicidal students running around so that people were becoming alarmed, and eventually the school had to try to do something about it. Well, they did try, by providing psychological counseling for distraught students, and the professors even seemed to be more aware of possible problems, so hopefully it did some good.<br />Anyway, looked at from a cultural perspective, maybe such overblown, hyperkinetic, and extreme rites of passage as law school are just society's way of making sure only the toughest (as opposed to the smartest) students, survive? Or maybe it's just society's way of getting \\"even\\" with budding lawyers for what they're going to do when they get out?<br />Well, obviously I'm being somewhat facetious here, but sometimes I ponder why modern societies set these things up this way.<br />One other interesting thing Turow did is that the recent edition includes an afterward in which he discusses his experiences working for 10 years in the district attorneys office in Chicago, where he prosecuted cases of corruption brought against lawyers and judges.<br />All in all, Turow's book makes for a suspenseful and interesting read.ption brought against lawyers and judges.<br />All in all, Turow's book makes for a suspenseful and interesting read.	2002-08-22
1434093:US	45193257	RJS430VQ5ZY4A	0385292163	459752409	The Art of War	Books	3	27	41	N	N	Overrated and over-hyped	This is a legendary book and has gotten a lot of play these days, from Wall St. to Hollywood types--including such notables as writer James Clavell. While I respect Clavell and am very familiar with the book, frankly, I don't see what all the commotion is about. The supposedly profound psychological principles that can be used to outwit your opponent, among many other strategems discussed, I found to be pretty elementary and not particularly astute. Perhaps for it's time this qualified as state of the art, but not anymore. Most of them are, or should be, pretty obvious.<br /><br />Sun Tzu's observations about military strategy also seemed of limited applicability today since they pertain to ground wars with very primitive weapons. For example, his point that one should obtain the superior vantage point and position from which to attack, while valid, would be understood today by the greenest officer just out of his military strategy and tactics course at the academy. There are some occasionally useful tidbits here, but overall, I suspect anybody trying to use these tactics in exactly the same way today in a confrontation with modern ground weapons wouldn't be a happy camper.<br /><br />To give just a couple of examples of this, in John Keegan's excellent book on the history of warfare, The Face of Battle, he points out that in the Battle of the Somme in World War I artillery accounted for 90 per cent of the casualties--not the infantry. The importance of artillery has continued to this day, something which didn't exist at all in Sun Tzu's time.<br /><br />As Keegan has pointed out, the first \\"modern\\" battle in the sense that it was the artillery that carried the day was in the 12th century Battle of Agincourt, where the much smaller English army using longbowmen decisively defeated a much larger French army, inflicting heavy casualties on the other side.<br /><br />Secondly, the greater speed, destructive power, and maneuverability of modern armies, especially in the case of mechanized armor, dictates that the overall strategy and details of ground engagements will be substantially different from those in Sun Tzu's time. (I could cite other examples, since we haven't even considered the advent of air power, but I'll leave it at that).<br /><br />The best way to appreciate this book is in the context of a classic that represented a high point in the military thinking of its time, but which has since been superceded. Basically this amounts to saying the work has historical value, and there is nothing wrong with that, but I wouldn't go too much further than that.<br /><br />Also (assuming the story is true), anybody who would behead two of the Emperor's most beautiful concubines because they giggled during a marching exercise for the Emperor is a real jerk and should apply for membership in the Nazi Hall of Fame (more like Hall of Shame).<br /><br />Finally, as seen from the editions of this book that purport to teach useful business principles derived from Sun Tzu's book-- westerners continually misinterpret Oriental classics like this and apply them to situations where they are not applicable--and where even the Chinese wouldn't think of using them. Again, this is a book about war, and has very little relevance to business.<br /><br />You'd think people would have taken a clue from the title, \\"The Art of War.\\" It's doesn't say, \\"The Art of Business.\\" What part of the title didn't they understand?<br /><br />In fairness, I would sum up by saying Sun Tzu's book represents an important historical contribution, but it has been over- hyped far beyond its real worth to the modern reader, and inappropriately applied in other areas, such as business, where it has very little, if any, real relevance or value.<br /><br />(P.S. Perhaps I would find B. H. Liddell-Hart's or Camille Clauswitz's books more profound as classics on war, as I did Kegan's books? I may try reading them and see if I find them more interesting and valuable than the Art of War. I have read articles about both books over the years, and they do seem more impressive, but I haven't actually read the originals yet. If I do, I will post a review on them here, as with the Sun Tzu book. Hopefully, I will have something more positive to say on these two also venerable classics.)rt of War. I have read articles about both books over the years, and they do seem more impressive, but I haven't actually read the originals yet. If I do, I will post a review on them here, as with the Sun Tzu book. Hopefully, I will have something more positive to say on these two also venerable classics.)	2002-08-21
1434218:US	45193257	R1FPGR60523LP3	1586635603	459752409	The Art of War	Books	3	34	62	N	N	Overrated	This is a legendary book and has gotten a lot of play these days, from Wall St. to Hollywood types--including such notables as writer James Clavell. While I respect Clavell and am very familiar with the book, frankly, I don't see what all the commotion is about. The supposedly profound psychological principles that can be used to outwit your opponent, among many other strategems discussed, I found to be pretty elementary and not particularly astute. Perhaps for it's time this qualified as state of the art, but not anymore. Most of them are, or should be, pretty obvious.<br />Sun Tzu's observations about military strategy also seemed of limited applicability today since they pertain to ground wars with very primitive weapons. For example, his point that one should obtain the superior vantage point and position from which to attack, while valid, would be understood today by the greenest officer just out of his military strategy and tactics course at the academy. There are some occasionally useful tidbits here, but overall, I suspect anybody trying to use these tactics in exactly the same way today in a confrontation with modern ground weapons wouldn't be a happy camper.<br />To give just a couple of examples of this, in John Keegan's excellent book on the history of warfare, The Face of Battle, he points out that in the Battle of the Somme in World War I artillery accounted for 90 per cent of the casualties--not the infantry. The importance of artillery has continued to this day, something which didn't exist at all in Sun Tzu's time.<br />As Keegan has pointed out, the first \\"modern\\" battle in the sense that it was the artillery that carried the day was in the 12th century Battle of Agincourt, where the much smaller English army using longbowmen decisively defeated a much larger French army, inflicting heavy casualties on the other side.<br />Secondly, the greater speed, destructive power, and maneuverability of modern armies, especially in the case of mechanized armor, dictates that the overall strategy and details of ground engagements will be substantially different from those in Sun Tzu's time. (I could cite other examples, since we haven't even considered the advent of air power, but I'll leave it at that).<br />The best way to appreciate this book is in the context of a classic that represented a high point in the military thinking of its time, but which has since been superceded. Basically this amounts to saying the work has historical value, and there is nothing wrong with that, but I wouldn't go too much further than that.<br />Also (assuming the story is true), anybody who would behead two of the Emperor's most beautiful concubines because they giggled during a marching exercise for the Emperor is a real jerk and should apply for membership in the Nazi Hall of Fame (more like Hall of Shame).<br />Finally, as seen from the editions of this book that purport to  teach useful business principles derived from Sun Tzu's book-- westerners continually misinterpret Oriental classics like this and apply them to situations where they are not applicabl--and where even the Chinese wouldn't think of using them. Again, this is a book about war, and has very little relevance to business.<br />You'd think people would have taken a clue from the title, \\"The Art of War.\\" It's doesn't say, \\"The Art of Business.\\" What part of the title didn't they understand?<br />In fairness, I would sum up by saying Sun Tzu's book represents an important historical contribution, but it has been over-hyped  far beyond its real worth to the modern reader, and  inappropriately applied in other areas, such as business, where it very little, if any, real relevance or value.r, dictates that the overall strategy and details of ground engagements will be substantially different from those in Sun Tzu's time. (I could cite other examples, since we haven't even considered the advent of air power, but I'll leave it at that).<br />The best way to appreciate this book is in the context of a classic that represented a high point in the military thinking of its time, but which has since been superceded. Basically this amounts to saying the work has historical value, and there is nothing wrong with that, but I wouldn't go too much further than that.<br />Also (assuming the story is true), anybody who would behead two of the Emperor's most beautiful concubines because they giggled during a marching exercise for the Emperor is a real jerk and should apply for membership in the Nazi Hall of Fame (more like Hall of Shame).<br />Finally, as seen from the editions of this book that purport to  teach useful business principles derived from Sun Tzu's book-- westerners continually misinterpret Oriental classics like this and apply them to situations where they are not applicabl--and where even the Chinese wouldn't think of using them. Again, this is a book about war, and has very little relevance to business.<br />You'd think people would have taken a clue from the title, \\"The Art of War.\\" It's doesn't say, \\"The Art of Business.\\" What part of the title didn't they understand?<br />In fairness, I would sum up by saying Sun Tzu's book represents an important historical contribution, but it has been over-hyped  far beyond its real worth to the modern reader, and  inappropriately applied in other areas, such as business, where it very little, if any, real relevance or value.	2002-08-21
1468775:US	45193257	R3BALUO3M4BVCM	0691024170	348587138	QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Best intro book on QED	This is the best book for the layman on the difficult subject of quantum mechanics. I've read much more technical works on the subject, but none of them can match Feynman's clear and concise explanations of the fascinating and paradoxical world of quantum mechanics. Feynman had a gift for explaining difficult physics concepts to the non-physicist, and this book is perhaps the best example of his ability to do this. Using primarily spatial concepts, visualizations, and diagrams rather than advanced math, Feynman clearly illustrates and explains many of the fundamental aspects of QED in a way that the non-specialist can grasp. A true classic in the field, and one that hasn't been equalled since in its clear and concise treatment of the subject. All in all, a great book from both a great physicist and great teacher.	2002-07-20
1488184:US	45193257	R361KEJAQO8X92	0072133392	641023638	Cisco : A Beginner's Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Superb in all  respects	This book was really a joy to read. It is one of the best MIS/IT books I've ever seen, and maybe the best. The book is very well written and the coverage of the material is extremely thorough and broad considering how much there is to know about all this and how big the field has become.<br />I would recommend you read this book to get all the great information and background it offers before tackling any of the actual Cisco certification books. There is just too much important information, and useful information, in this book that is missing in the more specific certification books, which of course are necessarily focused only on what you need to know to pass the exam.<br />If you're already cramming for one of the exams, I would still buy this book and use it as a study companion. It offers a much broader perspective on the entire networking field, which is useful because the certification books tend to lose the forest for the trees.<br />As I said, the overall coverage is really phenomenal. For example, in addition to the usual chapters covering hubs, switches and routers, the author also discusses such topics as SANS (storage area networks) and CDNs (content-delivery networks), both of which are becoming increasingly important. Also, there is a large section discussing firewalls and how they operate in general, and then the author goes on to discuss Cisco's own PIX firewall solutions.<br />Not satisfied with that, Velte also provides an excellent chapter on WANs, an area where the technology and the strategies are very different from the typical intranetwork designed with switches and routers. The subject of WANs leads naturally into a discussion of VPNs (virtual private networks), another area that is becomming increasingly important because of the substantial savings over that of the traditional WAN. It's becoming so important, in fact, that Velte mentions one expert who says that VPNs will completely replace the more expensive WAN technology and that WANs will completely vanish in the next few years.<br />In addition to all the above things, Velte also has a nice review of networking essentials, and there is a long chapter detailing the entire Cisco certification track, which discusses the different tests, certifications, tracks, and so on. There are so many of these now that keeping track of them now requires a chapter like this.<br />Finally, the author has a lot of great information about the entire line of Cisco routers and switches. You'll notice that in the certification books they tend to concentrate on a much more limited number of models. In the Sybex Switches book I have, the book focuses almost exclusively on the 5000 and 1900 models, with occasional references to some of the others. For example, Velte mentions that the enormous routers that handle the internet traffic are the Cisco 12000 series, the most powerful of which is capable of processing 60 billion bits of information per second, something that the typical Cisco and network support person running a company's intranetwork is probably never going to see.<br />All in all a really great book and well worth the price.will completely vanish in the next few years. <br />In addition to all the above things, Velte also has a nice review of networking essentials, and there is a long chapter detailing the entire Cisco certification track, which discusses the different tests, certifications, tracks, and so on. There are so many of these now that keeping track of them now requires a chapter like this. <br />Finally, the author has a lot of great information about the entire line of Cisco routers and switches. You'll notice that in the certification books they tend to concentrate on a much more limited number of models. In the Sybex Switches book I have, the book focuses almost exclusively on the 5000 and 1900 models, with occasional references to some of the others. For example, Velte mentions that the enormous routers that handle the internet traffic are the Cisco 12000 series, the most powerful of which is capable of processing 60 billion bits of information per second, something that the typical Cisco and network support person running a company's intranetwork is probably never going to see. <br />All in all a really great book and well worth the price.	2002-07-03
1488859:US	45193257	R21B1RXZB0QJPG	0072121157	641023638	CISCO: A Beginner's Guide	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Excellent in all respects	Excellent coverage and well-written guide to Cisco routers and other topics. The book fills in a lot of the gaps left by the certification books, so it makes a good companion to them. This book and Toby and Anthony Velte's Beginning Cisco guide are two of the best MIS books I've seen, especially for readability, as the Cisco-written certification books, although they have the best coverage of the topics needed for certification, still, I have to admit are pretty dull. As one person said, they all sound like they were written by the same person--such as Joe Friday from Dragnet. Shaughnessy and the Velte's should have been subcontracted to edit them or rewrite them--they could have livened things up quite a bit. In fact, the writing is about as lively as Cisco's stock has been lately. Anyway, this and Velte's book are very worthwhile adding to your library. These will be books you actually read instead of them just sitting on the shelf looking impressive.	2002-07-03
1491278:US	45193257	R7639AWV6L34W	0802132189	673689231	Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings	Books	3	16	31	N	N	Overrated	Despite the fact that de Sade's works have become virtually cult classics because of their raw descriptions of sex, I found these books to be sort of boring. Although the obsession with various and sundry sexual proclivities does add to the overall interest and weirdness factor, perhaps, it's not enough to save these books, either. Basically, when it comes to sex, for de Sade it comes down to the \\"four B's\\"--somebody is always being boned, buggered, blown, or beaten. Big deal. You can get this on videotape. In fact, these days you can practically get it in R-rated movies and on the front pages of small-town newspapers.<br />Some of the political philosophy is interesting in the historical context of the time, but if you want real philosophy, instead of parlor-level simplifications, I suggest you read works of real political philosophy, such as Plato's Republic or Karl Popper's The Open Society and Its Enemies, for example, instead of some amorous amateur's afternoon thoughts. Unfortunately, de Sade seems to be at his most profound when his pants are around his ankles (or should I say pantaloons?) Anyway, de Sade and the emperor Tiberius would have made an interesting sexual \\"tag-team\\" for Masters and Johnson to research, perhaps, but a profound author he's not.<br />I also saw the recent movie, Quills, starring Geoffrey Rush as de Sade. In contrast to the books, I actually thought the movie was pretty good. In the film, de Sade spends the last 12 years of his life in an insane asylum. The movie (assuming it's accurate) shows that de Sade was a man driven and compelled to write. At one point, the director of the asylum takes his quills and paper away from him for corrupting the other inmates with his writings. But de Sade is a man with a mission--he continues to write with his own blood, and, well, other bodily excretions--as it becomes clear that his dark literary muse will not be silenced no matter what the cost.<br />I will say one nice thing about the books, though, which is that he does know how to turn a literary phrase once in a while, but that's about it. Give this over-heated and libidinous libertine the cold shoulder (but go see the movie).	2002-07-01
1492262:US	45193257	R2C7WXSKUNBNBQ	0691023565	830656886	How to Solve It: A New Aspect of Mathematical Method	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Important classic	It's delightful to see this book is still in bookstores after 60 years, and I can still remember how much fun it was to read it 30 years ago. I came across it recently in a local bookstore, and after poring over it again, I was inspired to write a little review about it.<br />The most important thing about the book is Polya's little heuristic method for breaking down math problems and guiding you thru the process of solving them. Try to visualize the problem as a whole. Diagram it at first, even if you don't have all the details. Just initially try to get the most important parts of the problem down. Then try to get some sense of the relationship of the parts to the whole. Then tackle each of the component parts. If you get stuck, ask yourself if you could approach it another way, what could be missing, and so on. To this end, the questions at the back of the book are worth their weight in gold.<br />Polya's little heuristic and methods book is a timeless classic. This and Lancelot Hogben's &quot;Mathematics for the Millions&quot; have done more good for suffering math students than all the the dry textbooks put together that really don't teach you &quot;how to solve it.&quot;	2002-06-30
1492337:US	45193257	R2R012YBZIBA3J	0090771516	914591010	Morphology of Gymnosperms the Structure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Outstanding book	This is one of the best and most enjoyable botany books I read during my tenure as a botanist. Excellent discussions of the comparative morphology and structure of this important group of plants, with particular reference to fossil species. Since Gymnosperms fossilize much better than many plants, we have a much better idea of what early species were like, and that becomes very clear as you read this book, as many of them get discussed. Altogther a fascinating and well-written discussion on this important group.	2002-06-30
1492782:US	45193257	R6LD8TT249MCG	0829001158	849123224	New Utopians: A Study of System Design and Social Change	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Insightful and concise	An insightful, concise and cogent discussion of many of the most important thinkers in the history of social thought, much of it still relevant today, in an age of terrorism and uncertainty.<br />Interestingly, my father was a psychologist and worked with Boguslaw for a time, whose friends called him &quot;Bogie.&quot; My father recommended the book to me, and I read it with pleasure. I am primarily a neurobiologist by education, but I have enough psychology and sociology background to appreciate Boguslaw's great little book.<br />It's unfortunate this highly readable and relevant book is out of print. If you can find one, or a used copy, pick it up, you won't be disappointed.	2002-06-30
1494282:US	45193257	R18SO3HPOXEJFQ	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A few thoughts	Although the book's dramatic story and setting makes for interesting reading in and of itself, I found it more interesting to consider what the philosophical implications of the book might be. Camus used the story of the desperate circumstances of the people in this town to put forward important ideas about philosophy and living, and in that case, we might ask what those are?<br />To recap the story briefly, the small town of Oran on the Mediterranean seacoast is hit by plague, and the town gates are closed. The town inhabitants, now sealed off from the rest of the world, are left to their fate, and must survive as best they can.<br />Against this grim backdrop of events, a Dr. Rieux, the existentialist in the story (and perhaps Camus's alter-ego) is put to the test, and it is his views and character that Sartre is most concerned with. For the doctor, there seem to be two main questions that are at stake here. First, he sees the plague as synonymous not just with disease and illness, but with all the evils which afflict mankind. To Rieux, the plague symbolizes man's age-old fight against evil itself. For him, the question is, can man fight with plague? Can man, in fighting the enemies of mankind, defeat and kill the enemies of mankind?<br />And second, is it possible for man to come up with, in the face of such a deadly and implacable enemy, a philosophy equal to the threat of the plague, a modus vivendi, to counteract and combat the \\"modus morituri,\\" perhaps, that the plague represents? Can man engage and defeat such an enemy, in an existence which Rieux regards as a brief exposure to pleasure, and a prolonged exposure to pain, and now deadly disease?<br />The Plague is an interesting, dramatic, and poignant account of one existentionalist's attempt to come to grips with these questions. The only reason I give it 4 stars instead of 5 is that I found Camus's writing style a little dry, but that perhaps had more to do with the translation. ...	2002-06-28
1498261:US	45193257	R36CNWTR2B7PFM	0670894303	957185241	Einstein in Love: (A Scientific Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Romance of Many Dimensions	This book gave me a much more detailed and intimate look at Einstein's personal and intellectual life than anything else I've read, and it makes for a truly fascinating read. Overbye spent years poring through Einstein's letters and personal papers to research and write this book, and it shows.<br />There is a wealth of detail describing and chronicling Einstein's life as he struggled with the creation of the momentous scientific discoveries that were to make him famous, especially the long and difficult path to his final solution for the General Relativity problem. Along with this, you get a detailed look even into his personal day-to-day life, learning about his friends, scientific associates, and even his loves. Einstein is no longer a towering, remote intellect plumbing the depths and secrets of the universe in cloistered solitude; Overbye's account displays Einstein's very human side also, showing him to be a man of his times, often with Bohemian and  avant-garde personal, social, and political ideas. For example, Overbye mentions how Einstein and his first wife, Mileva, had their first baby out of wedlock, and subsequently married. And the dark side of Einstein's personal life, the unhappy ending to his first marriage and his often careless dealings with the women in his life, don't escape Overbye's purview.<br />But don't be misled by the title, it's not just about Einstein's sometimes checkered love-life (although he did have more romantic dalliances than I would have expected); Overbye also does an excellent job of presenting Einstein's most important ideas, including a good explanation of the special and general theory of relativity.<br />And last but not least, Overbye is a fine writer whose prose flows and doesn't get in the way of the story, and who has a good command not only of the personal, but also the scientific side of Einstein's life. Altogether a well-written and fascinating book on a fascinating historical and scientific figure.<br />(P.S. Did anybody happen to notice the title of my review is the sub-title for Edwin Abbott's classic mathematical and social allegory, &quot;Flatland, a Romance of Many Dimensions?&quot; But it works equally well here as a segue into my review of Overbye's biography.)anybody happen to notice the title of my review is the sub-title for Edwin Abbott's classic mathematical and social allegory, &quot;Flatland, a Romance of Many Dimensions?&quot; But it works equally well here as a segue into my review of Overbye's biography.)	2002-06-25
1498343:US	45193257	R33U141249BEYH	0674576330	404657468	Minds, Brains and Science (1984 Reith Lectures)	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Cogent and hard-hitting	Searle is an interesting philosopher for me to read, because I was trained in neurobiology, and Searle is a philosopher who thinks like a neurobiologist. On the other hand, I am a neurobiologist who thinks like a philosopher.<br />Although the book discusses several classical problems such as the problem of freedom and free will, the mind-body problem, right and wrong, etc., for me the two most interesting chapters were the one on the mind-body problem, and the one on cognitive psychology.<br />Here Searle proposes a thorough-going biological and physical explanation that, as a neurobiolgist, I've always liked myself.<br />You really need to read these two chapters to understand all the details, of course, but I'll briefly summarize his idea, and you can decide if it makes sense to you.<br />Basically, Searle says there really is no mind-body problem. This dichotomy occured because philosophy completely misunderstood the entire issue. There is no mind-body problem, because the mind depends on the brain, and on the neural workings of the brain, and there is no reason even to say that consciousness itself is separate from the brain itself.<br />Searle points out that we explain the properties of normal matter, such as a steel ball, which has mass, weight, is impenetrable, is magnetic, and so on, by reference to its atomic and molecular properties. There is no reason to posit any intevening layer of &quot;rules&quot; or theory.<br />It's the same with the mind-body problem. Mind depends on neurons. All our behavior depends on neurons. There is no reason to posit this intermediate entity of consciousness or of mind which is separate from the underlying biology. There is no doubt that consciousness exists, but there's nothing special about it, and although Searle doesn't claim it can be reduced to neural functions yet, he leaves no doubt that classical views about the mind and consciousness are fundamentally flawed.<br />Anyway, I can certainly sympathize with this point of view, and would like to make a point of my own. I've studied the brain, and when you see people with tiny, focal, strokes in the language area of the brain who have no detectable impairment except they can no longer use articles or conjunctions in their speech, or people with temporal lobe damage who can easily name an object when you show it to them, but who can't tell you its function, and vice versa, where there are people who have temporal lobe damage in an adjacent area with exactly the reverse syndrome--they can tell you what its for but can't name the object--in other words, the naming function and the definition function seem to be separate in the temporal lobe, and the two areas must communicate in order to be able to do both, or at least the information is stored separately and you need access to both--you very quickly get the idea that if it's not in the brain, it's not anywhere. There are legions of other neurological cases where people have lost very specific or general functions depending on the source and extent of the damage to the brain.<br />Furthermore, it's becoming clearer as a result of research that there is no single part of the brain that gives rise to consciousness. Consciousness relates to different functions located in different parts of the brain being integrated in time through a finely controlled and switched system of neural communications pathways. Thus, consciousness is not a unitary entity at all, although it might seem so to our own introspective minds. More accurately, it is a unified process that occurs through the integration of diverse brain areas and brain functions.<br />Anyway, Searle's biological reductionism and determism isn't very different from how neuroscientists think, and I give him credit for being willing to discuss the subject in those terms and propose such a radical solution (from the standpoint of most philosophers) to the mind-body problem.of view, and would like to make a point of my own. I've studied the brain, and when you see people with tiny, focal, strokes in the language area of the brain who have no detectable impairment except they can no longer use articles or conjunctions in their speech, or people with temporal lobe damage who can easily name an object when you show it to them, but who can't tell you its function, and vice versa, where there are people who have temporal lobe damage in an adjacent area with exactly the reverse syndrome--they can tell you what its for but can't name the object--in other words, the naming function and the definition function seem to be separate in the temporal lobe, and the two areas must communicate in order to be able to do both, or at least the information is stored separately and you need access to both--you very quickly get the idea that if it's not in the brain, it's not anywhere. There are legions of other neurological cases where people have lost very specific or general functions depending on the source and extent of the damage to the brain.<br />Furthermore, it's becoming clearer as a result of research that there is no single part of the brain that gives rise to consciousness. Consciousness relates to different functions located in different parts of the brain being integrated in time through a finely controlled and switched system of neural communications pathways. Thus, consciousness is not a unitary entity at all, although it might seem so to our own introspective minds. More accurately, it is a unified process that occurs through the integration of diverse brain areas and brain functions.<br />Anyway, Searle's biological reductionism and determism isn't very different from how neuroscientists think, and I give him credit for being willing to discuss the subject in those terms and propose such a radical solution (from the standpoint of most philosophers) to the mind-body problem.	2002-06-25
1500285:US	45193257	R2TGEACC295MNF	078212657X	454673899	CCIE: Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert Study Guide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good but need to supplement	I agree with the other reviewers here that the book is well written, gives good coverage of most topics, but overall is a little light technically on some things.<br />The chapter on BGP was quite technical, though, and I appreciated that. I'm used to reading full-length RFC's (i.e., I've read the ones on the original TCP/IP protocol and such additional topics as DHCP, and so forth, and I can tell you from personal experience, they can be quite quite dense).<br />I should mention that I'm a long-time server administrator side person and am currently retired at the ripe old age of 50. When I was working, I really don't need to know that much about Cisco products, since I worked for a big Fortune 100 company and we had whole departments of people handling that side of things, just as I was responsible for the server side of things. But as I now have plenty of time on my hands, I'm currently working through all the books for the CCNA, CCNP, and CCIE that I can find in order to just get somemore background in these important areas, mainly for my own curiousity. Who knows, maybe I'll even take some of the exams. (If the stock market keeps going down, I may have to go back to work anyway!)<br />The Cisco books and the Sybex books have been my main resource for all of this. I agree that you need to have other sources for adequate coverage, and I found that sometimes one author's explanation of something didn't click right away, but then the next author's would.<br />I'm also currently working through the Sybex Switches book, and have found the Cisco Interactive Mentor CD on Switches to be useful also. The CD has interactive labs where you get practice working with the commands and troubleshooting and there is a glossary of technical terms where you can quickly look up something you've forgotten. I don't know if there's one for the CCIE Internetwork exam, but if there is, it might be worth checking out as another study aid.	2002-06-23
1500447:US	45193257	RBPYKWTUSLT1F	0380718154	961003330	Getting to 'I Do': The Secret to Doing Relationships Right!	Books	5	10	21	N	N	Good practical advice	Since the classic self-improvement and self-esteem books of the 60s and 70s came out, I haven't read much applied psychology, my interests being more in the neurobiology area, but this book was recommended to me, so I ended up reading it.<br />Besides the practical advice the book gives, it's interesting in that it seems to have aroused some controversy. Several reviewers said they were insulted by the more traditional woman's role and behavior that it represents, but the vast majority of the other women here, of which there were at least a couple of dozen, found it to be very useful and many gave it virtually rave reviews.<br />What this says about the number of women who ascribe to modern feminist beliefs I'm not certain. Does this mean that most women are uncomfortable with them and that your typical feminist is the minority of women who are college-educated professionals, or at least well-read and literate?<br />Based on my own experience, I would have to say there is some truth to this. As I am a college-educated professonal man myself, most of the women I know seem to be feminists of some sort, and will tell you as much. When I ask them what books they've read on the subject, they can't seem to name any, however, not even The Feminine Mystique, which was the book that started it all, but anyway, I accept that they are feminists, whatever that might mean to them. I also understand that feminism is supposed to be currently undergoing its third revolution, revision, reconstruction, or whatever the current term for it is, so there may be some confusion about what feminism is even to those who are actively following the controversy.<br />Anyway, among the non-college educated, non-professional, housewives, and more blue-collar women that I know, there seem to be fewer self-professed feminists.<br />I realize that the casual survey I've done is limited to the observations of one person's admittedly limited experience, but it would be interesting to find out what a larger survey would turn up along these lines. Is it true that feminism is largely an upper-middle class, or at least, college-educated woman's ideology?<br />But getting back to the book. The book itself is packed with lots of practical advice on how women should play the dating and mating game in these difficult times. As I said, it's written from the more traditional point of view, but then, this seems to be the kind of advice the women who've read it, and who wrote reviews here, are looking for.<br />Speaking as a man who has dated women of both types, I don't think most men will be offended if you act this way. I have had the interesting experience several times of dating truly rabid, apparently man-hating feminists who spent the entire dinner carrying on about what louses men were, and the venom with which they hurled these pronouncements my way made it clear that I was in no way exempted from their ire and contempt for the entire vicious lot of us male humans. It was a little like having dinner with a combination of Jonathan Edwards and \\"Mommy Dearest.\\"<br />For my part, I sat calmly throughout all of this, not taking it too personally, and then when it was over, I said, \\"Well, this is all very interesting, and I can certainly see that you know a lot about this subject, but the simple fact is, I asked you out to dinner--and I don't ask that many women out (which was true)--because I thought you were the cutest thing I'd seen in a long time (which was also true), and I was hoping we might go back to my place or your place after dinner and do something other than talk about sexual politics, feminist or otherwise (which was also true).\\"<br />Well, at that point, one of them was insulted and got up and walked off. The other one, however, couldn't wait to get back to her place. So what does that tell you about feminists?<br />Anyway, I can tell you from personal experience that after a few of those, a man does not mind at all a women with a less vitriolic dinner-table discussion agenda, and who might even be a more \\"traditionally feminine\\" woman.<br />I realize, of course, that feminists run the entire gamut from very moderate to very extreme points of view, but for a while there, some years ago, all I could seem to find was the really rabid ones.<br />But getting back to the book, one interesting thing the author does is to divide men into masculine and feminine types, and how to deal with each type. Well, most men are actually more of a combination of the two, since men have both female and male hormones. Also, men have one X as well as the Y chromosome, so they are at least partly female genetically, whereas women have only the two X chromosomes, and so are totally female. But I didn't mind that too much. What's important is how the man typically acts, more masculine or feminine, and what your strategy should be based on that.<br />It seems likely that there has been a progressive feminization of the male role over the last 10,000 years--since the advent of the Neolithic Revolution--when men became more settled, unglamorous farmers rather than macho, studly hunter-gatherers chasing woolly rhinos through the brush with fire-hardened wooden, or flint-arrowhead tipped, spears. (Personally, although I am outwardly a typical professional type, an engineer, in fact, I can't imagine anything more fun and interesting to do. The heck with this computer, desk-job stuff. Modern society and modern jobs bite. I'll take being a Neolithic hunter anyday).<br />But returning to the feminization issue, despite that fact, and the advent of modern feminism which has further decreased the distance between the traditional male and traditional female roles, the basic process of finding a mate probably hasn't changed that much since prehistoric times.<br />That being the case, this seemed to be a book with many good, practical strategies and much detailed, good advice. It is aimed at those women who are looking for a more committed, long-term relationship, or marriage, and who have more \\"traditional\\" values perhaps, than most feminists. But based on my reading of all the customer reviews here, this is what most women seem to be seeking.ble discussion agenda, and who might even be a more \\"traditionally feminine\\" woman.<br />I realize, of course, that feminists run the entire gamut from very moderate to very extreme points of view, but for a while there, some years ago, all I could seem to find was the really rabid ones.<br />But getting back to the book, one interesting thing the author does is to divide men into masculine and feminine types, and how to deal with each type. Well, most men are actually more of a combination of the two, since men have both female and male hormones. Also, men have one X as well as the Y chromosome, so they are at least partly female genetically, whereas women have only the two X chromosomes, and so are totally female. But I didn't mind that too much. What's important is how the man typically acts, more masculine or feminine, and what your strategy should be based on that.<br />It seems likely that there has been a progressive feminization of the male role over the last 10,000 years--since the advent of the Neolithic Revolution--when men became more settled, unglamorous farmers rather than macho, studly hunter-gatherers chasing woolly rhinos through the brush with fire-hardened wooden, or flint-arrowhead tipped, spears. (Personally, although I am outwardly a typical professional type, an engineer, in fact, I can't imagine anything more fun and interesting to do. The heck with this computer, desk-job stuff. Modern society and modern jobs bite. I'll take being a Neolithic hunter anyday).<br />But returning to the feminization issue, despite that fact, and the advent of modern feminism which has further decreased the distance between the traditional male and traditional female roles, the basic process of finding a mate probably hasn't changed that much since prehistoric times.<br />That being the case, this seemed to be a book with many good, practical strategies and much detailed, good advice. It is aimed at those women who are looking for a more committed, long-term relationship, or marriage, and who have more \\"traditional\\" values perhaps, than most feminists. But based on my reading of all the customer reviews here, this is what most women seem to be seeking.	2002-06-23
1502464:US	45193257	RQIUOR0CEAGI5	0072133392	641023638	Cisco : A Beginner's Guide	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Superb in all respects	This book was really a joy to read. It is one of the best MIS/IT books I've ever seen, and maybe the best. The book is very well written and the coverage of the material is extremely thorough and broad considering how much there is to know about all this and how big the field has become. <br />I would recommend you read this book to get all the great information and background it offers before tackling any of the actual Cisco certification books. There is just too much important information, and useful information, in this book that is missing in the more specific certification books, which of course are necessarily focused only on what you need to know to pass the exam.<br />If you're already cramming for one of the exams, I would still buy this book and use it as a study companion. It offers a much broader perspective on the entire networking field, which is useful because the certification books tend to lose the forest for the trees.<br />As I said, the overall coverage is really phenomenal. For example,  in addition to the usual chapters covering hubs, switches and routers, the author also discusses such topics as SANS (storage area networks) and CDNs (content-delivery networks), both of which are becoming increasingly important. Also, there is a large section discussing firewalls and how they operate in general, and then the author goes on to discuss Cisco's own  PIX firewall solutions. <br />Not satisfied with that, Velte also provides an excellent chapter on WANs, an area where the technology and the strategies are very different from the typical intranetwork designed with switches and routers. The subject of WANs leads naturally into a discussion of VPNs (virtual private networks), another area that is becomming increasingly important because of the substantial savings over that of the traditional WAN. It's becoming so important, in fact, that Velte mentions one expert who says that VPNs will completely replace the more expensive WAN technology and that WANswill completely vanish in the next few years.<br />In addition to all the above things, Velte also has a nice review of networking essentials, and there is a long chapter detailing the entire Cisco certification track, which discusses the different tests, certifications, tracks, and so on. There are so many of these now that keeping track of them now requires a chapter like this.<br />Finally, the author has a lot of great information about the entire line of Cisco routers and switches. You'll notice that in the certification books they tend to concentrate on a much more limited number of models. In the Sybex Switches book I have, the book focuses almost exclusively on the 5000 and 1900 models, with occasional references to some of the others. For example, Velte mentions that the enormous routers that handle the internet traffic are the Cisco 12000 series, the most powerful of which is capable of processing 60 billion bits of information per second, something that the typical Cisco and network support person running a company's intranetwork is probably never going to see.<br />All in all a really great book and well worth the price.	2002-06-21
1502936:US	45193257	R2G5NWR6HPGWJ7	0871319594	900963018	Build a Better Spouse Trap: A Street-Smart Dating Strategy for Men Who Have Lost a Love	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great practical advice	Since the advent of the classic self-esteem and self-help books of the 60's and 70's, I haven't read any practical psychology books for decades, my interest being more in the neurobiological side of psychology. But this book's title caught my eye, and I ended up reading much of it the bookstore to get an idea of what it was about.<br />The purpose of the book is two-fold. The first is to help men who are recovering from the loss of a spouse or partner, whether through death or divorce, and to get them through the grief and the loss so that they can go on with the rest of their lives. This is important since one must have dealt effectively with these problems before finding a new relationship, otherwise the emotional hurt and baggage from the old one may be carried over to the new one, with unfortunate consequences for the new partner and relationship.<br />The second goal of the book is to give men useful, practical advice on how to navigate the difficult and often treacherous waters of the modern dating game, and ultimately on how to find a new partner. The book is full of useful tips, advice, and techniques covering the entire dating and relationship field that should be invaluable to the man in search of a partner--whether you are recovering from the loss of an old partner--or looking for a first one.<br />Another thing I liked was the section where the authors discuss several other books that also deal with relationship issues, especially from the woman's point of view, and that should be useful to the hopeful spouse-hunter. I also looked at one of these, entitled Getting to I Do, by Patricia Allen and Sandra Harmon. This book discusses many of the same topics as the present book, only it's written, as I mentioned, from the woman's point of view. If you want to understand better what women want and how they deal with various aspects of the relationship process, and especially the dating game, this is also a good book for getting you to see the woman's side of things.<br />I found both books full of practical and useful advice for both men and women looking for help with the difficult process of dating and ultimately finding that special person and/or relationship.ings.<br />I found both books full of practical and useful advice for both men and women looking for help with the difficult process of dating and ultimately finding that special person and/or relationship.	2002-06-20
1507425:US	45193257	RI4L7Y80GWX4F	1886411107	362826157	The Book of SCSI, 2nd Edition: I/O for the New Millennium	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding book	Very well written and detailed discussion of SCSI technology which should satisfy even the most demanding and detail-oriented of device engineers. Good discussions especially of the ASPI programming interface and one of the best explanations of RAID technology that I've ever read. This is one of only 3 books I've ever seen devoted to SCSI, and possibly the best. Fields also maintains the useful scsifaq.org website for the long-suffering SCSI voyager. Having been around the block quite a few times with SCSI and RAID technology over the years (I was responsible for the RAID/SCSI health of over 500 servers at a large Fortune 100 company for a time), I can say from personal experience that Fields and Ridge know whereof they speak. Altogether an excellent technical volume and resource that should be useful to anyone needing to know more about this oft-misunderstood technology.	2002-06-16
1508065:US	45193257	R1MCUOJLZ3N1ZW	0380726475	428320645	Descartes' Error	Books	5	175	182	N	N	Excellent	Damasio's book will be somewhat tough sledding for the non-specialist, but it's still a good book and worth sticking with to the end. Using Descartes's famous dictum as a departure point, and through a discussion of current theory and detailed case studies, he demonstrates the intimate relationship between the brain, mind, and body.<br />The case studies of sensory agnosia were very interesting, especially the one where the patient had apparently lost the functioning of the part of his brain that stored the awareness of one side of the patient's body, to the point where the patient had no awareness or perception of that half at all, and even denied that he even had a problem with it. There can be no clearer demonstration of the fact that our consciousness and awareness depends entirely on that 3-pound, convoluted mass of nerve cells we call the brain.<br /><br />As someone with a pretty fair background in the area myself (I did a master's and almost completed a Ph.D. in psychobiology) I can vouch for Damasio's command of the scientific and technical issues and details (notwithstanding that fact that Damasio is both an M.D. and a Ph.D.) so he has a good command of the medical issues also. The book is very well written, although not easy, but Damasio does a fine job of explaining the more difficult ideas.<br />One further comment, I read one review that was critical of Damasio for supposedly misinterpreting Descartes's dictum, \\"I think, therefore I am,\\" and then spent the whole review discussing Descartes instead of Damasio's book. The reviewer also stated that because of this Damasio lacks scientific objectivity. Since his comment is itself a good starting point for discussing the most important aspect of Damasio's book, I thought I'd write a little more on it here.<br />Whether or not Damasio's interpretation of Descartes dictum is wrong or not, (and from the other reviewer's disjointed discussion, that itself isn't very clear), this is a minor detail, since Damasio simply uses this as a point of departure and from there on the vast majority of the book is devoted to a discussion of the neurological and brain issues, not to the technical details of the philosophy of mind-body dualism, for which there are already plenty of other discussions out there (having read many of them myself).<br />However one should precisely interpret Descartes's famous statement, Damasio is completely correct in pointing out the most important aspect of Descartes's idea--that the mind is fundamentally different from the brain itself and that one needs a dualistic theory to explain the separation of the apparently immaterial mind from the more material body--is wrong.<br />Although echoes of this theory can still be seen in modern philosophy, and were an important influence on idealist philosophers that followed Descartes, such as Kant, and even continue to have an influence on modern neo-Kantian theory and other thinkers, the advance of modern neurobiology has shown that these theories are fundamentally wrong.<br />Since we're on the subject--and to be completely fair--I will that say that one aspect of Kant's theory is quite accurate--that the mind is actively involved in organizing the data of the senses--and that ideas about the external world could not exist unless there were corresponding mental capabilities and constucts to match. Our understanding of sensory information processing and of advanced cortical abilities certainly show that the brain has evolved in a way that reflects the need for specific capabilities to enhance our survival in a dangerous world. Kant's idea that there are inborn mental faculties that allow us to form ideas about the external world isn't so different from this idea, and in that sense, Kant was right. (This would have been a good point for the other reviewer to make, but he got lost in the trivial details, and failed to see \\"the forest for the trees\\" (as he himself incorrectly said of Damasio)).<br />Anyway, returning to Damasio's book, this is well-written book on a fascinating aspect of modern neurobiology, and which has profound implications for western philosophies of idealism and dualism. Although not an easy book for the non-specialist, it's worth the effort.<br />I have one final suggestion to make, and that is you might want to read Michael Gazzaniga's more general introduction to neurobiology: \\"Nature's Mind: The Biological Roots of Thinking, Emotions, Sexuality, Language, and Intelligence,\\" before tackling this one. It's also an excellent book and you'll have a more well-rounded understanding of the brain field which should stand you in good stead to tackle this book, or any other brain-oriented books, after reading it.urning to Damasio's book, this is well-written book on a fascinating aspect of modern neurobiology, and which has profound implications for western philosophies of idealism and dualism. Although not an easy book for the non-specialist, it's worth the effort. <br />I have one final suggestion to make, and that is you might want to read Michael Gazzaniga's more general introduction to neurobiology: \\"Nature's Mind: The Biological Roots of Thinking, Emotions, Sexuality, Language, and Intelligence,\\" before tackling this one. It's also an excellent book and you'll have a more well-rounded understanding of the brain field which should stand you in good stead to tackle this book, or any other brain-oriented books, after reading it.	2002-06-16
1509054:US	45193257	R3VN5W0F3N7WYI	0415278414	979899541	Phenomenology of Perception (Routledge Classics) (Volume 85)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A great work	As someone with almost equally strong backgrounds in neuroscience, psychology, and philosophy I can only applaud M-P's wide-ranging curiosity and knowledge and his refusal to be limited by the artificial boundaries of academic disciplines. His discussion of the phenomenology of perception draws its data and conclusions from many areas--as long as they had something to offer in illuminating and analyzing this important area.<br />In this regard, I am reminded of the great but insufficiently appreciated philosopher, Samuel Alexander, in his major work, Space, Time, and Deity. Alexander was similarly eclectic, and moved back and forth between deduction, induction, historical argument, and between science and philosophy, without any sense of discontinuity whatever. In other words, he was willing to use whatever worked.<br />But getting back to M-P, this book stands alone in it's thoroughgoing approach to the phenomenology of perception and in its determination to ground such analysis in the ordinary data of everyday life--much as G.E. Moore attempted to ground his metaphysics in very ordinary, everyday facts. M-P is to be commended for a similar approach and his work is probably the greatest of all of these.	2002-06-14
1509092:US	45193257	R19W3A29Z8JWQG	1559706317	130177848	Napoleon: A Biography	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A brief comment	Napolean was a fascinating and contradictory personality, and McLlynn has done a fine job of capturing both the more intimate, private Napoleon as well as the public Napoleon who was the instigator of great historical events. As McLynn says, \\"He liked to strike people of both sexes, to slap them, pull their hair, pinch their ears and tweak their noses.\\" He was also, according to the author, an intolerant prude, a sadist, as well as a shrewd strategist and charismatic leader. But McLynn also does a fine job of putting Napoleon's achievements and failures in the social context of the times, showing how Napoleon's brief career set the pattern for much of what was to happen politically and militarily in Europe for the rest of the century.<br />I did have one minor nitpick, however, which has to do with Napoleon's ultimately disastrous march on Moscow in 1812.<br />One of the reasons it failed was due to epidemic typhus caused by the parasite, Rickettsia prowazeckii, which ran rampant in Napoleon's army and killed 1/3 of his men. This rarely gets discussed much in the histories like this one but deserves to be more well-known. As someone with an interest in both history and the history of science, I think this sort of story makes for fascinating reading also, but as I said, too often it doesn't get covered in the histories.<br />Another interesting thing is that Napoleon's chef invented canning food under heat and pressure in champagne bottles--which could withstand the pressures of reheating--basically not so different from the way you make corned beef, which is also retorched (reheated) in the can. This process kept the food germ-free and prevented spoilage due to bacteria, and was one of the main reasons why Napoleon could field and provision an army of a quarter of a million men in the early 1800's.<br />Overall, however, a detailed, well-written and fascinating book on a historical figure who continues to be of interest both to professional historians and history buffs alike.ffs alike.	2002-06-14
1509820:US	45193257	RNRGH6Y2ERZPN	0195066340	249792400	The Decline of the West (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A few contrasts & comparisons	Spengler's classic tome about the fate of civilizations was very influential and widely read in his day, and his influence is still being felt today. His ideas are probably the best known in this area, but it's interesting to contrast and compare Spengler's idea with those of two other historians who have had similarly deterministic ideas about the rise and fall of civilizations.<br /><br />Toynbee came up with the idea of \\"challenge and response.\\" A civilization is confronted with certain challenges and problems during its development. If it succeeds in surmounting them, it grows and becomes more powerful; if it fails, as it must eventually at some point, it's culture declines and ultimately dies off.<br /><br />Similarly, John Suart Mill came up with the idea of positive and negative periods in history. It's been 20 years since I read Mill, but the quote where he aptly describes his idea went something like the following. I think I have it more or less correct:<br /><br />\\"During the positive period, mankind adopts with firm conviction some positive creed, claiming justification for all its actions proceeding from it, and possessing more or less of the truth and adaptation to the needs of humanity; when a period follows of negation and dissolution, wherein mankind loses all its old beliefs, of a general or authoritative character, except the belief that the old ones are false.\\"<br /><br />What I find most interesting about Spenger's book, and about Toynbee's and Mill's theories, is the idea that there must ultimately be some sort of theoretical history that can explain the broad sweep of entire civilizations, that their waning and waxing can be attributed to some regular, lawful process.<br /><br />I am sceptical that this is the case, at least in so far as a general, all-inclusive explanation can be found, although I think there is a good deal of truth in the ideas of all three men. From my reading of history, the conditions and circumstances of each civilization and what ultimately led to its rise and fall, seem special or unique to that particular historical context, and probably wouldn't have worked out the same at a different time and place.<br /><br />Of course, all civilizations must maintain a strong military and economy, otherwise they are simply overrun by their enemies. Providing that, however, it seems to me that it comes down to the fact that there is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has come. Great societies--such as those of ancient Egypt, Golden-Age Athens, Early Renaissance Italy, or modern America, are built because people are galvanized by the ideas they embody and by the opportunities they create. The energy, dynamism, and enthusiasm this creates is what makes their rise to power possible and is what makes them great. When this is no longer the case, the formerly great society goes into decline.<br /><br />Of course, such societies are often conquered from without at some point, but they were probably already declining internally for a some time before that happened--as when Rome was sacked twice during the 4th century AD--first by the Ostrogoths and then by the Visogoths.<br /><br />Anyway, just my two cents--and perhaps not so different from what the three above writers themselves have had to say about it.e and fall, seem special or unique to that particular historical context, and probably wouldn't have worked out the same at a different time and place.     Of course, all civilizations must maintain a strong military and economy, otherwise they are simply overrun by their enemies. Providing that, however, it seems to me that it comes down to the fact that there is nothing so powerful as an idea whose time has come. Great societies--such as those of ancient Egypt, Golden-Age Athens, Early Renaissance Italy, or modern America, are built because people are galvanized by the ideas they embody and by the opportunities they create. The energy, dynamism, and enthusiasm this creates is what makes their rise to power possible and is what makes them great. When this is no longer the case, the formerly great society goes into decline.     Of course, such societies are often conquered from without at some point, but they were probably already declining internally for a some time before that happened--as when Rome was sacked twice during the 4th century AD--first by the Ostrogoths and then by the Visogoths.     Anyway, just my two cents--and perhaps not so different from what the three above writers themselves have had to say about it.	2002-06-14
1509997:US	45193257	R2NT4EPCMM620O	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	12	21	N	N	A brief comment	Not to nitpick or anything, but I had one comment that has to do with Napoleon's ultimately disastrous march on Moscow in 1812.<br />One of the reasons it failed was due to epidemic typhus caused by the parasite, Rickettsia prowazeckii, which ran rampant in Napoleon's army and killed 1/3 of his men. This rarely gets discussed much in the histories like this one but deserves to be more well-known. As someone with an interest in both history and the history of science, I think this sort of story makes for fascinating reading also, but as I said, too often it doesn't get covered in the histories.<br />Another interesting thing is that Napoleon's chef invented canning food under heat and pressure in champagne bottles--which could withstand the pressures of reheating--basically not so different from the way you make corned beef, which is also retorched (reheated) in the can. This process kept the food germ-free and prevented spoilage due to bacteria, and was one of the main reasons why Napoleon could field and provision an army of a quarter of a million men in the early 1800's.<br />Anyway, just my two cents.	2002-06-14
1511357:US	45193257	R3N0J5IAA4C254	0940780496	180681941	Clinical Microbiology Made Ridiculously Simple, Edition 3	Books	5	8	11	N	N	An update	This is a very well written, concise, and even fun book on clinical micro. The mnemonically oriented illustrations are a nice idea and add to the overall enjoyment of reading the book. Some of these are really pretty entertaining. I give the authors points for creativity for including them. Some people might find them a little flippant at times, but I enjoyed them, and remember, this is mainly intended as a review book, which might be especially useful for those taking their boards.<br />The book does a good job also of including the latest information on the newest antibiotics and treatments, although these things of course change rapidly. To just mention possibly the most important of these: since the book was published, there have been the first reports of a strain of staphylococcus aureus that is resistant to the powerful new antibiotic, linezolid, and also of strains of enterococci that are resistant. Unfortunately, the drug has only been in use for about a year. This one of the few drugs still effective against tough, resistant, gram-positive bacteria.<br />To keep matters in perspective, however, the report from the UK said it was the only patient known out of 3000-4000 who have been given the drug. Since then a number of other cases of resistance have been reported here in the US also. No doubt there will be others but we're still talking about a very low incidence rate. However, it's a reminder that we can't rest on our laurels and the evolved resistance problem is going to be an ongoing issue.<br />But getting back to the book, this is a highly readable, informative, and even entertaining book on an important clinical subject. It's worth noting also that the credits page lists dozens of MD's who reviewed the different chapters, presumably for accuracy and completeness, so I would have confidence that the book has the best information possible as of the time it was published. All in all a good book which should be a useful resource for anyone needing to learn or bone up quickly about this important area, especially for anyone studying for their boards.rn or bone up quickly about this important area, especially for anyone studying for their boards.	2002-06-12
1511984:US	45193257	R3CQ84ZMG37IAC	0671867806	794137195	Being and Nothingness	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A suggestion	I just had a suggestion in case you are thinking of tackling this weighty tome or are already reading it.<br />No doubt many people will try to read this book, but after seeing how dense the prose and arguments are on each page and how difficult sledding or slogging it's going to be (sort of like the philosophical equivalent of the Slough of Despond in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress), they reluctantly decide, despite their best intentions, that it's really not for them.<br />If so, try just reading Sartre's treatment of human dishonesty and his discussion of the idea of negation. If you do you'll still come away with some important insights. His treatment of negation is one of the most important contributions in the book, and after reading his discussion of human honesty/dishonesty you'll never look at the &quot;truth&quot; or human relations the same ever again.<br />Anyway, just a suggestion in case it's useful. If you do decide to tackle the book, I wish you the best of luck, and if you stick it out for the entire book, congratulations and my hat's off to you.	2002-06-12
1512845:US	45193257	R1KD00PC2CX5Q9	0684836599	66659027	The Emotional Brain: The Mysterious Underpinnings of Emotional Life	Books	5	171	179	N	N	A long needed book	This book is a long-needed look at how those parts of the brain that mediate emotion, primarily the limbic system and the medial and lateral frontal cortex, affect our behavior, thinking, and our lives. This is a well-written and thoughful account for the intelligent layman about this important topic. <br />There are excellent discussions of the different limbic system structures as well as the frontal lobes. The sections on the amygdala I thought were especially good, and the discussions of how the frontal lobes and the limbic areas interact in various and important ways is equally good.<br />Unlike other important areas of science, there are few really accessible books on the brain for the non-specialist, but I've noticed the situation has improved significantly in the last 5 to 10 years. If you liked this book and want to round out your knowledge of the human brain, I can also recommend the following books, all of which are similarly well-regarded and well-written:<br />1. Descartes' Error: Emotion, Reason, and the Human Brain, by Antonio Damasio <br />2. The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language, by Steven Pinker<br />3. Phantoms in the Brain: Probing the Mysteries of the Human Mind, by V. S. Ramachandran, Sandra Blakeslee<br />4. Nature's Mind: The Biological Roots of Thinking, Emotions, Sexuality, Language, and Intelligence, by Michael Gazzaniga<br />5. How Brains Think: Evolving Intelligences, Then & Now, by William H. Calvin<br />There are about a half dozen others that I could have added to this list, but I would read these first. In fact, I would start with Gazzaniga's book and then read the others, since his book is more of a general introduction, whereas the others deal more with certain special topics.<br />If you read these books you'll be in pretty good shape in terms of having at least a basic understanding of current neuroscience. Anyway, good luck and happy reading.	2002-06-11
1513070:US	45193257	R3U0B53UBP3YXM	0062511661	575197261	Why Suicide?	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Excellent book on a sensitive subject	I don't do much reading in psychology these days, although many years ago I completed a Master's and most of the coursework for the Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Calfornia. I ultimately decided not to pursue a career in it, so never finished the Ph.D., but at one time had an excellent background in the subject. Anyway, I happened to see this book in the psychology section of a local book store, and although the clinical area wasn't my specialty (I being more in the psychobiology area), it caught my eye, and I ended up reading some of it.<br />This seemed to be a well-written and practical book on what can be a sensitive subject in our culture (or in any culture, probably). It contains a lot of background information on suicide, and more importantly, on how to deal with it if you know someone who has. I would have no reservations recommending this book for someone who needed advice or help dealing with the suicide of someone in their life.<br />It contained some fascinating facts on the incidence of suicide--especially in Japan. For example, it seems that there is a volcano named Mahari Yama on the little island of Ohshima, 60 miles from Tokyo. According to legend, if you commit suicide by throwing yourself into the crater, you are instantly cremated, converted to a whisp of smoke, and instantly go to Heaven.<br />A 26-year old student by the name of Ueki threw herself into the crater in the early 30's. Ueki's story became an instant sensation and legend itself, and by the time the authorities had blocked access to the crater in 1935, 940 people--800 men and 140 women, had committed suicide this way--an amazing statistic as well as amazingly tragic story.<br />Anyway, I was impressed with the book and can recommend it for anyone needed help with this difficult area.	2002-06-11
1519006:US	45193257	R2T8YVLZ15X5JS	0671867806	794137195	Being and Nothingness	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The classic--what did you expect?	I just had one comment to make. Several people here have complained about Sartre's verbosity and repetitiveness. Well, Sartre was a French intellectual and ontologist, and a philosophical student of Husserl and Heidegger. None of these influences is likely to predispose one to brevity. What did they expect--Ogden Nash, or Monty Python?	2002-06-05
1545730:US	45193257	R1K4UFLDDPIVT5	155643085X	767390498	Chinese Boxing: Masters and Methods	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Excellent	I read this book some years ago when it first came out, and thought it was excellent. The book is basically a chronicle of Smith's trip to the Orient and his encounters with a number of different masters with descriptions of their methods and ideas.<br />Smith's travelogue makes for an absorbing account, and he includes many interesting anecdotes and stories about the various masters he meets. It is not a picture book or instructional book in that sense, but more of a personal memoir.<br />It is also interesting in that it bears a strong resemblance to the books written by John Gilbey, a purported textile heir and martial arts master who also travelled the world meeting many intereting and unusual masters, and who returned to write about his experiences.<br />The writing styles are quite similar--both Gilbey and Smith like to pepper the text with quotes from their favorite writers--the main difference being Gilbey's experiences are probably fanciful. It is likely that Smith was writing under the pseudonym of Gilbey for these entertaining books, so you should take his accounts with a large grain of salt, lest you be taken in by Smith's engaging, conversational style and his fascinating stories.<br />To give you just one example of this, in the most recent of the three Gilbey books, unfortunately the title escapes me right now, but anyway, he describes an encounter with an Icelandic master who claims to use the energy of black holes to obtain fastastic power, and which occurs in a train station.<br />Well, there is no train system, or train station, in Iceland and never was one. The only thing that ever existed in the way of a train was a small-gauge railway that wasn't for passenger service and which I understand no longer operates.<br />To give just one more example, in one of the other books Gilbey describes a Pakistani art by the name of Fiz-Lez-Loo whereby the energy of the attacker's blow is directed and reflected by the adept back into the attacker. This expert asked Gilbey to strike him on the nose, but Gilbey instead punches him in the groin as hard as he can. Gilbey passes out and spends the next week in the hospital recuperating.<br />While I have been a martial artist and instructor myself for almost 40 years, having started studying when I was only 11, and have seen some pretty amazing things myself in that time, I am fairly certain that this art doesn't exist, and that it couldn't be developed.<br />That having been said, I think Gilbey's books are worth reading for their entertainment value alone, as long as you keep in  mind my warning about maintaining a healthy dose of scepticism and don't take what he says too seriously.ert asked Gilbey to strike him on the nose, but Gilbey instead punches him in the groin as hard as he can. Gilbey passes out and spends the next week in the hospital recuperating.<br />While I have been a martial artist and instructor myself for almost 40 years, having started studying when I was only 11, and have seen some pretty amazing things myself in that time, I am fairly certain that this art doesn't exist, and that it couldn't be developed.<br />That having been said, I think Gilbey's books are worth reading for their entertainment value alone, as long as you keep in  mind my warning about maintaining a healthy dose of scepticism and don't take what he says too seriously.	2002-05-13
1623386:US	45193257	R3LIK1WWRC2VK9	0782127118	708140114	CCNP Switching Study Guide (Exam 640-504 with CD-ROM)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good study book	It looks like the two major offerings in the CCNP area are from New Riders and Sybex. I found the Lammle/Sybex book on sale, so I decided to go with this one and give it a try.<br />I bought this book just to read up on switching and VLANS, which I didn't know as much about compared to routers. Most people are probably buying this book to pass the exam, but I was more interested in just getting somemore background in the subject since I am a professional NT administrator.<br />I found the book was excellent for that. The book is clearly and concisely written and although I'm not an expert on switching, I worked on a large corporate network for a lot of years and have been around switches for some time and so have some understanding of them, and it seemed to cover the subject pretty well. The sample tests at the end of each section are sure to be helpful to those taking the certification test, and there is a long general assessment exam at the very beginning of the book too.<br />Another book I picked up that I've found useful is the &quot;Network Certification&quot; volume from Microsoft. I also have the more general CCNP &quot;Support&quot; volume from Lammle and Hale in this series, and although I haven't gotten into it much, it also looks like a good study book on the basic routing material. I'll probably write a brief review for that when I've had some time to take a more thorough look at it.	2002-03-12
1625729:US	45193257	R3GE7NGU4A4OUC	074320011X	423914902	Parasite Rex: Inside the Bizarre World of Nature's Most Dangerous Creatures	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Informative and entertaining	This is a very readable, entertaining, informative and even dramatic book on a subject that so far doesn't seem to have occupied the talents of so gifted a writer as Zimmer. I've been a fan of good science and nature writing for years, but somehow Zimmer's name escaped me until just recently.<br />This book will be fun for the vast majority of serious nature writing lovers. It will scare you, entertain you, and teach you things about some organisms you've probably never even heard of. I already knew some of it as I used to have a pretty strong background at one time in this sort of biology, but as I'm sort of rusty at this point I was still entertained and surprised by much of it.<br />There are some amazing stories about both men and parasites in this fine book. I would even go so far as to say I think Zimmer's book ranks up with the top science writing efforts of the past few decades.<br />The last thing I'll say it is that it was high time for this book. The microbes, bacteria, and viruses have already been written about by other talented science writers. It was time for the parasites to have their day. Zimmer does it in style in this brilliantly written book.	2002-03-10
1634712:US	45193257	RLNC7MTCCZPKO	0812590376	817315964	Riders of the Purple Sage	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very interesting	This is the only western I've ever read; I'm mostly into classical literature, science writing, and non-fiction, but I asked friends for a book rec in the field, and they said read this one and the two Thomas Berger novels about Little Big Man.<br />The novel is interesting in that it's not a stereotypical western story. The main character is a woman who owns a large cattle ranch and is basically the mainstay of the little town of Cottonwoods, a Mormon town on the Utah border, sort of like the Cartwright family was in the popular TV western series, only in this case, Lorne Green is replaced by a female lead. The novel also is unusual in that it shows her struggling against the tyranny and even criminality of her fellow Mormon ranchers, who don't like the fact of a beautiful, wealthy, but unattached woman, who wields considerable influence in the local town despite their best attempts to undermine her.<br />One the things that sparked my interest in the novel was hearing an English prof in a radio interview on National Public Radio talk about some of the scholarship that is being devoted to genres like the western novel. She was working herself on the books of Karl May (The Legend of the Llano Estacado), Owen Wister (The Virgianian), and Zane Grey.<br />One of the interesting things she had to say had to do with Grey's vivid prose descriptions of the western landscape. She said Grey's prose sensualized the landscape, giving it an almost masculine sensuality and almost sexuality. I'm about halfway into the book, and I can say that the rugged countryside of sheer, rock-walled canyons, arid plateaus and valleys, and wide-open spaces of this part of Utah are vividly described by Grey and serve, not just as a dramatic backdrop against which the novel's events take place, but as a palpable force for good or evil by itself...I think the book has a strong plot with a lot of powerful elements going for it: interesting characters (including a dangerous and mysterious but chivalrous gunslinger), a sympathetic main character who struggles and triumphs against society's evils (not just a few western-style bad guys), beautiful and evocative descriptions of the landscape, and, as the backcover says it, \\"hairsbreadth escapes.\\"<br />One last interesting thing is that, if I remember correctly, Zane Grey was actually a Pennsylvania dentist who failed in his attempt to set up a profitable dental practice in New York. He wanted to get into writing westerns, and when his first novel was a big success, his writing career was launched and he never looked back. Riders of the Purple Sage is probably his most famous book, and despite it's not being a typical western novel, it has become a classic in its field.alrous gunslinger), a sympathetic main character who struggles and triumphs against society's evils (not just a few western-style bad guys), beautiful and evocative descriptions of the landscape, and, as the backcover says it, \\"hairsbreadth escapes.\\"<br />One last interesting thing is that, if I remember correctly, Zane Grey was actually a Pennsylvania dentist who failed in his attempt to set up a profitable dental practice in New York. He wanted to get into writing westerns, and when his first novel was a big success, his writing career was launched and he never looked back. Riders of the Purple Sage is probably his most famous book, and despite it's not being a typical western novel, it has become a classic in its field.	2002-03-02
1719613:US	45193257	R2LNI1YX8DQY9U	0425178218	370448941	Anonymous Rex	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Outrageous and funny	I just wanted to make a few comments on this book.<br />I read a lot of humorous books in this vein from Hiaasen, Chris Moore, Bill Fitzhugh, Tim Dorsey, and so on, but it would be hard to imagine a wilder premise than the one in Garcia's book. Dinosaurs didn't die at the end of the Cretaceous, as we thought, instead, they evolved into down-sized versions of their former selves and are now running around disgused in human drag, unbeknownst to us humans. The private eye main character himself is a dino, a raptor, if I recall, but anyway, a  number of species have survived and are living among us.<br />There are other quirky aspects to the story as well. In every detective story there is usually some gorgeous bombshell the hard-bitten detective falls for. But in Garcia's book he falls for a human female, and some hot sheet music (between the sheets, that is) ensues. Inter-species affairs are strictly forbidden, since it could blow their cover, but he can't help himself.<br />There are more wild hijinks in this book I could tell you about, but as I just wanted to make a few comments, I'll let you discover them for yourself. Garcia has pulled off a little coup here by writing a very funny novel based on a wildly outrageous premise, and which he manages to pull off in style.	2001-12-27
1736142:US	45193257	R1WZRA6YG1M6QH	0691023964	741494561	The Mechanization of the World Picture: Pythagoras to Newton	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Outstanding history	Very detailed and in-depth history of the early developments in physics leading up to Galileo and Newton's ideas. Because Galileo so overshadowed earlier scientists, their names are rarely heard, and many science students have the impression that Galileo came up with these ideas in a vacuum, since their historical antecedents never get discussed much. For example, how many students are aware of the contributions of earlier mathematicians and scientists such as Nicholas of Cusa or Nicole d'Oresme?<br />This book will rectify that impression. The discussion of the contributions of late Medieval and early Renaissance schools that made important contributions to the area of mechanics and physics, such as the School of Chartres (to mention just one example), I thought were especially good. This book is a must for anyone interested in the early history of science and mathematics. The book is out of print for some years now, but if you can find a used copy, it's well worth picking up.	2001-12-12
1828012:US	45193257	R33NXXJPA0WRUY	0380977567	206715463	Cross Dressing	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another winner from Fitzhugh	This was Fitzhugh's first book, although it came out after Pest Control and Organ Grinders. That's because it was actually written as a screenplay when Bill was taking a writer's workshop in LA, I think, and he had to go back and do some rewriting to convert it into a book.<br />It's not quite as funny as the other two books, but then, it's still damn good as a first effort, and it shows Fitzhugh's great nascent talent which would come to full fruition in Pest Control and Organ Grinders.<br />Sister Peg and Dan Steele are interesting characters, and the obvious chemistry between two people who in normal life would be unlikely friends, is a nice touch. One reviewer objected to the occasional preachy passage and some off-the-cuff theologizing, but I didn't mind it. I've read a lot of theology myself, including many of the most important western writers on religion (such as Tillich, Niebuhr, Barth, Rosenzweig, Buber, Marcel, Berdyaef, and Bultmann, to give a partial list), and, notwithstanding the respect I have for the above writers, nobody can say their theology is any better than anybody else's, since there's no way to prove any of it, as much as I would like to believe otherwise.<br />But to get back to the book, Fitzhugh has another winner in this novel. I only give it four stars since the other two were so exceptional and deserved more like 8 stars. But if this were any other writer than Fitzhugh, it would rate five stars.	2001-09-26
1834448:US	45193257	R1XPKCEIURIBZX	0425178102	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A few comments	This is Dave Barry's first attempt at a full-length novel, and it's actually pretty decent. It's not in the same league as the best that Carl Hiaasen or Chris Moore have turned out, but I think that would be unfair to expect that in a first attempt. it still shows Barry can turn out a funny novel that is worth reading, and knowing Barry, that he'll probably improve and be able to do even better next time. If you've exhausted Hiassen, Moore, Fitzhugh, and Welter and are looking for something more in the same vein, Barry's book is definitely worth your time and money.	2001-09-20
1850677:US	45193257	R8D3A0OQH24U8	0452271606	872021089	La Maravilla	Books	4	3	8	N	N	A few comments	I was only able to get about halfway into this book before putting it down. This was not because of any inherent deficiency in the book itself--Vea is a competent author, and his portrayal of a squatter's community outside of Phoenix in the 1950's is both sensitive and powerful. The problem was really me--I found the pacing in the novel to be just too leisurely--perhaps itself reflecting the more leisurely pace of life in this community in the 1950's.<br />However, I was still impressed enough with Vea to want to make a few comments. The novel requires a certain suspension of disbelief because of the important role magical elements play in the book, but I didn't even mind that, really. It's just not my cup of tea since I prefer more action-oriented, faster-paced plots.<br />However, I can still tell a fine novel when I see one (and despite my own shortcomings as a reader), so don't let my lack of patience for an otherwise good, but somewhat leisurely paced novel, put you off. Vea writes quite well and this is a more than competent novel, especially considering it was his first, and it provides a unique glimpse into what would otherwise be a forgotten community of people on the edge of Phoneix society in the 1950's.	2001-09-04
1851248:US	45193257	R30WHOIDMFS8ZD	1588513513	202500840	Bloodsworth Island	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A riveting scenario	This is a book about an all too plausible form of biological terrorism. Or more accurately, perhaps, medical eugenicism. One man has created a vision and a plan for humanity that will change the world forever. For those who are chosen, it will become the perfect world, a world without inherited disease--all inherited disease.<br />The man behind the plan is a brilliant, charismatic scientist, Dr. Marcus Gallagher. He wants to eliminate all genetically inherited disease, and he has created the most advanced research lab on the planet to do it. After hundreds of millions of dollars in funding and 10 years of research, the doctor is almost ready to implement his plan.<br />Unfortunately for humanity, the doctor's idea of how to do this is not what you would expect. Instead of trying to cure people of inherited diseases, for example, cystic fibrosis, he is developing viruses that will instead attack the carriers, thereby removing them from the gene pool, allowing doctor Gallagher to achieve his vision of a genetically perfect world.<br />Doctor Gallagher has gathered a brilliant and dedicated cadre of devoted scientists and doctors to help him develop and carry out this sinister plan. Furthermore, they have been subjected to a cult-like indoctrination and training so that they are absolutely loyal to Dr. Gallagher. They are now part of a new order, a new secret society that will transform the world. Nothing, it seems, can stop the evil Dr. Gallagher from carrying out his plan. If the doctor is able to implement it, millions of people will die.<br />Among the many scientists and doctors on Bloodsworth Island, a small island in Chesapeake Bay which houses the lab, only one man, Dr. Gene Nolan, has doubts about the doctor and his plans. But how can one man stop the seemingly omnipotent Dr. Gallagher and his cadre of hundreds of absolutely loyal men? Will he be able to break free of the conditioning, will he be able to carry out his plan in time to stop the evil Dr. Gallagher?<br />We may soon have the genetic knowledge that will make such a sinister plan possible. Combining a realistic scientific premise with a suspenseful story, this is an imaginative scientific thriller about a terrifying, but all too possible, future.lagher? <br />We may soon have the genetic knowledge that will make such a sinister plan possible. Combining a realistic scientific premise with a suspenseful story, this is an imaginative scientific thriller about a terrifying, but all too possible, future.	2001-09-04
1864457:US	45193257	RCCIM8YLFHLJS	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The classic	I am not exactly the age for reading comic books anymore, and I hadn't read any in probably 30 years until a friend of mine recommended this. It came out 15 years ago, and has since become a classic, and I had heard of it now and then, and the impression it had made on Batman and comic book fans, but hadn't actually read it until now. And as I mentioned, although I'm not exactly young anymore, I have to say this book is quite a \\"graphic\\" experience for a comic book, or any book. In a lengthy and intelligent introduction to the work (for a comic book), the editor discusses the problems of creating more believable and sophisticated comic book characters in an age where the old audience is aging, and the younger audience is developing more sophisticated tastes at an earlier and earlier age.<br /><br />This book was the brilliant answer to this problem. Batman comes alive as you've never seen him before, a darker and more troubled Batman to match the darker and more troubled Gotham city he's come out of retirement to protect. Miller's complex and rich story line touches on many themes and aspects of Batman's and Gotham City's past and present, interweaving them in a complex tapestry of violence and intrigue. Now, Batman himself is the underdog, hunted by Police Chief Gordon's successor and maligned in the press as a disturbed and fanatical vigilante. Another nice touch is the appearance by Superman at the end. And of course, the Joker, Batman's long-time and greatest nemesis, is an integral part of the story. If you've never read The Dark Knight, you're in for a rare experience. This is one book that truly transcends the comic book genre and stands in a class by itself.	2001-08-24
1879343:US	45193257	R2Q6LCQK82XDXR	0049130080	312480859	Beginnings of Civilization	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great	This enormous volume was the first in a five-part series covering the entire history of mankind from our earliest origins to the 20th century.<br />Jacquetta Hawks and Sir Lenard Wooley kick off this tremendous series with a volume on the prehistory and ancient history of man, up to about 1200 BC, which they say is the traditional dividing line between &quot;ancient&quot; and more &quot;modern&quot; history.<br />Since this volume was published in the early 60's, no doubt it would need to be amended with more modern readings, but for it's time it was the most complete review of the literature to be had, and I learned a lot from it. Truly a great scholarly work and a landmark book on ancient history.	2001-08-13
1902134:US	45193257	R22BV8V01M7JGY	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The original was better	I read this book back in the mid-60's, before it was made into a movie. Boulle was a well-known French writer, but this is the only thing I've ever read by him in translation. It might have been written in the late 50's even, but I can't find a publication date to find out for sure.<br />Anyway, although Boulle isn't really a sci-fi author, the original book was excellent, and although I did enjoy the movies that came out of it, the original book was still better. The movie altered much of the original story, for example, the main character is a French journalist, and Dr. Zaius isn't the head honcho in the book. And as another reviewer here mentioned, in the book, the gorillas are much more organized and powerful, and tend to be the ones that just go out and get things done, while the more cerebral chimps and orangs are just sitting around debating and contemplating their navels.<br />Another nice touch that didn't make it into the movie was the solar energy powered spaceship that used adjustable blinds to control it, which another reviewer mentioned too. However, he didn't mention that the really interesting thing is that the scientist Cavour used something similar in HG Wells' &quot;The Men in the Moon,&quot; where adjustable shutters or flaps much like blinds are used to control the anti-gravity or bouyancy effect of the sun's rays on the anti-gravity paint. I assume Boulle got his very similar idea from Wells.<br />But back to the original story. Boulle uses the society of apes to poke fun at various aspects of human society. Since the different ape groups, the orangs, chimps, and gorillas symbolize different things--the intellect, the emotions, and the physical body--the outward conflicts and power struggles between the different apes becomes a metaphor for our own internal struggles--between the mind and the emotions, and the mind and the body.<br />Boulle's book remains a classic and still rewards reading today. If you enjoyed the movies, you'll probably like the original novel even more. Boulle was a talented French novelist and the original book still deserves to be better known, as most people are unaware a foreign writer came up with the original idea.the original novel even more. Boulle was a talented French novelist and the original book still deserves to be better known, as most people are unaware a foreign writer came up with the original idea.	2001-07-27
1903051:US	45193257	R6RASXTNARRH7	0804805199	904231705	Self Defense Simplified (Tut books, G)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting little book	This interesting little book uses very simple but effective line drawings instead of photo sequences to teach self-defense. The technique is wrestling- and grappling-oriented, but that's okay. The book presents a lot of different scenarios, and as a wrestling-based approach to self-defense, I thought this book wasn't too bad, in fact, it's pretty good. Wrestling as a self-defense art is under-valued, and there is no doubt it is an effective method in its own right.<br />If I recall right, as it's been 30 years since I've seen the book, Hepler had a twin brother who he used to work out wrestling and self-defense techniques.<br />Anyway, this was a fun little book with an interesting slant. The only other book I know like it that was totally based on line-drawings was the Ratti brothers' Aikido and the Dynamic Sphere, another excellent example of this sort of approach.	2001-07-26
1903587:US	45193257	R28NDGMF79FXN5	0385285965	589405984	Legends of the Fall	Books	4	23	29	N	N	Interesting book	The book is interesting in that two of the three novellas in it have been made into movies, Revenge, and Legends of the Fall.<br />I'll go on record saying that although I enjoyed the movie, I thought the book was better, although it's not really that long a book. Still, even in a work this short, there are depths that can't really be explored in a 2-hour movie, so if you liked the movie, I would strongly recommend you read the book.<br />Harrison has a direct but poetic style, and his male characters are well-drawn and believable. The women don't have much of a role in his books, but I don't mind that really. Harrison is a writer about old-fashioned masculine virtues and ideals of the sort that perhaps don't exist in our society anymore. But if you want equally well-developed women characters, you'll need to look elsewhere.	2001-07-26
1911917:US	45193257	R32GWX6908GJT8	0425160815	921970447	I Want to Buy a Vowel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	His best book	I wanted to make a few brief comments for now, having recently finished this book. But I intend to write a more complete review soon as this book is certainly deserving of it.<br />Of Welter's three books this is by far and away the best. It has a sweetly surrealistic quality reminiscent of a Frank Capra film (such as It's a Wonderful Life), as Welter uses the predicament of a young Latino immigrant to pillory everything from organized religion to American politics and immigration law.<br />The book has some interesting characters, especially the high-school son of the local fundamentalist minister, who, unknown to the town, is behind the recently discovered evidence of a practicing Satanical sect on the outskirts of town--specifically, evidence of Satanic rituals which he is setting up as an elaborate practical joke. The local town, of course, doesn't see it that way, and the newspaper is continually abuzz with alarmist stories about possible Satanists in their midst.<br />The pair of little girl characters are an especially nice touch, as much of the book unfolds through their eyes and we see the humor and absurdity of the adult world reflected in their own naivete. Then there's also the kindly and worldly local sheriff, who just wants to avoid any violent lynchings of supposed Satanists (he is the only one in town, other than the son, who suspects it's a prank.<br />The book has many funny scenes and Welter has a nice idea for the ending. This book is definitely worth your time and money.	2001-07-20
1914906:US	45193257	R2RX50WRN1YP4W	0804816085	748168768	Secret Fighting Arts of the World	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A few comments	I wrote a previous review of this book before I had ascertained John F. Gilbey's likely identity. This book (and Gilbey's other two books) purport to be written by a wealthy textile scion who holds an 8th degree black belt in judo and a 5th dan in karate.<br /><br />It seems likely that John Gilbey is really Robert W. Smith, a well-known authority in several arts who most readers here will no doubt recognize. I hadn't made the connection until recently, but I'm pretty sure about it, for two reasons.<br /><br />In \\"Secret Fighting Arts of the World,\\" Gilbey has a habit of peppering the text with various literary quotes. In Smith's recent book, \\"Martial Musings,\\" he does the same thing. Moreover, the overall somewhat choppy writing styles are very much the same. He does this to a lesser degree in \\"Chinese Boxing, Masters and Methods.\\"<br /><br />Not sure why I didn't put this together earlier, but I'm sure other people have already figured this out. Anyway, whether this is the case or not, I've enjoyed these books very much and hope there will be more.<br /><br />One final comment for the unaware. Be sure to take many of the more fantastic claims in this book with a grain of salt. To mention just one of these (which actually occurs in the next book, \\"The Way of a Warrior,\\" but anyway, it's the best example) Gilbey meets a young exponent of an Icelandic art who claims to use the energy of black holes to put a significant dent in a metal beam in a train station in Rejkyavik.<br /><br />Well, there are no train stations in Iceland and never were. They don't even have any trains to speak of, except for a small-gauge railway that I understand no longer operates.<br /><br />So remember, you've been forewarned!	2001-07-18
1915723:US	45193257	R38LV9MPBGAUFU	0380732343	161050730	Hammerhead Ranch Motel (Serge Storms)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Top notch	I've read all of Christopher Moore, Carl Hiaasen, Bill Fitzhugh, and John Welter's books, when I encountered Tim Dorsey, and what a delightful surprise it was, as I hadn't really heard or seen much about him before, compared to the above writers.<br />If you're a fan of any of the above, and especially of Hiaasen, then you'll like Dorsey too, especially this book. I rank this novel with the best of Hiaasen, and in fact it's probably the best thing I've read in the genre in some time.<br />I would recommend you read Florida Roadkill first, as some of the same characters appear also in Hammerhead Ranch, especially Serge, who I would also say is the most memorable character to come along since Skink in Hiaasen's books. As another reviewer here said, one can't help but wonder what would have happened if Skink had met Serge.<br />Florida Roadkill is also excellent, but Hammerhead Ranch is even better, but it's still worthwhile reading as it's sort of a prequel to Hammerhead Ranch. Not the least of its merits is that the character, Serge, is introduced in Florida Roadkill, and has a major role in both books.<br />There are many similarities between the two authors, perhaps not surprising since they write for neighboring newspapers in south Florida. If anything, Dorsey's books are even more darkly satirical than Hiaasen's, and I would also say his books are more violent too. There are lots of bad guys in his books, and very few good guys. The bad guys are always scamming, swindling, and otherwise preying on each other, and as there's no honor among thieves, the dead body count in a Dorsey book is pretty impressive by the time you reach the end.<br />To sum up, this is a very funny book, and the book's main idea is really great, so I'll describe it briefly here. Almost every room at the Hammerhead Ranch is occupied by some sort of criminal, ranging from low-life scumbags to more high-powered criminal elements, who are using the Ranch as their base of operations. Several of the residents are trying to find each other so they can steal the money in the briefcase (you'll be hearing plenty about the briefcase) but don't yet know that they're both operating out of the Ranch.<br />Anyway, Dorsey came up with a great idea and makes the most of it to create a very funny book. Definitely worth your time and money.the residents are trying to find each other so they can steal the money in the briefcase (you'll be hearing plenty about the briefcase) but don't yet know that they're both operating out of the Ranch.<br />Anyway, Dorsey came up with a great idea and makes the most of it to create a very funny book. Definitely worth your time and money.	2001-07-17
1917675:US	45193257	R2HBP2OZU3HJOP	0425162621	826127665	Begin to Exit Here	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Funny and poignant	I'd read one other book by Welter, I Want to Buy a Vowel, which I had enjoyed, so I decided to try this one. I haven't tried his Night of the Avenging Blowfish yet, but that's next.<br />I enjoyed this book also. The main character is a grumpy (although he's still very young), iconoclastic journalist by the name of Kurt, who despises the standard, boring reportage he feels most newspapers turn out. Some of the best parts of the book are when Kurt is ranting about what's wrong with modern-day journalism. For example, he remarks at one point that there is no story so exciting and vital that standard newspaper reportage can't turn it into just another bloodless, boring story. To Kurt, most newspapers are little better than straight-up fish-wrap.<br />Kurt doesn't want to be just another reporter cranking out the same tripe over and over, and that's where he gets into trouble.  Kurt's witty, ironic, and irreverent approach causes him to continually run afoul of his chief editor, who doesn't understand why Kurt can't just write like everybody else and not make waves.<br />Welter's I Want to Buy a Vowel had a sweetly surrealistic quality reminiscent of a Frank Capra film (such as It's a Wonderful Life). And some of that quality is evident here also, especially in the dialog between Kurt and his girlfriend. Their relationship is well-developed and is a nice touch in the book, as they banter playfully back and forth, talking about life, love, and the trials and tribulations of the newspaper business, at which, as I mentioned before, Kurt levels some trenchant and funny broadsides.<br />I think you'll enjoy this book. You won't find it full of belly laughs like a Hiaasen or Chris Moore book, but Welter isn't really going for that sort of thing. Rather, his books have both a sweet and sad quality combined with an ironic wit that ranges from gentle to outright vicious. He has his own unique voice and is worth reading if only for that.	2001-07-16
1950051:US	45193257	R3LLW2G3HTB340	0761526625	72744934	Ulysses S. Grant on Leadership: Executive Lessons from the Front Lines	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A few more comments	I had a few more comments on this book.<br />I think the author may be onto something here, something even more important than the idea of using Grant's life as a way to help business managers, perhaps.<br />I like history and have read my share of it, but I'd never been able to really get into the history of the Civil War, or even early American history in general, despite having had childhood friends who were into Civil War history, and even Civil war reenactments. The author's using an important figure of the time as a sympathetic character, a focus around which to build an interesting account of his contributions, also meant that he needed to present much of the historical context and discuss a lot of the actual history of the period. In the process he really wrote a mini-history of the events during this time that was much more engaging and absorbing than your typical history that I have read. As a result, I learned much more than I ever had before about this important phase of our history.<br />I think this approach would be equally applicable to other important figures and times. It might seem that this is just re-inventing the idea of a biography, but again, I've read my share of biographies too and this book was much more interesting the way Barnes did it. Much of that is because the author makes you  feel like you are right in the center of the action with Grant during this critical time as he makes many of these difficult, life-and-death decisions. So if we are to call it biography at all, Barnes's approach is a much more interesting way to do it.<br />I hope the author may do other books like this as I would be very interested in reading them, too.	2001-06-21
1972901:US	45193257	R1KVAXVZ0U42GL	0385484267	164223730	A Field Guide to Germs	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A correction	I wrote a previous review on this great little book earlier, and had a correction to make. I referred to the &quot;malaria trypanosome&quot; in my review, and actually, it is a plasmodium, rather than a trypanosome, since that is the organism for sleeping sickness.<br />Unless you're a real microbiologist, it's impossible to track all these little things. I do recall, however, that there are five different phyla of protozoans or unicellular organisms, which consist of the rhizopoda (or amoebas), ciliates, flagellates, sporozoans, and the mastigophorans, if I remember correctly, as I'm not a microbiologist myself.<br />But getting back to my previous point. So if from the name you conclude that the scientific name for sleeping sickness is trypanosomiasis, pat yourself on the back.<br />Unfortunately, I've never heard that malaria is known as plasmodiumiasis.<br />Anyway, this is a fun little book on lots of scary little bugs. Definitely worth your time and money.	2001-06-04
1994354:US	45193257	R3426JDPOH8S8Y	0896583465	173653032	The Art of Outdoor Photography: Techniques for the Advanced Amateur and Professional	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent photo book	I only just started reading this book about a month ago, and instead of reading it all the way through cover to cover, I've been dipping into it here and there at random. I've discovered that no matter where I start reading, Norton offers valuable advice that will be useful to relative neophytes such as myself as well as the more technically experienced photographer.<br /><br />Soon I will read the book from cover to cover, after which I'll write another more comprehensive review. For now, I just wanted to echo the other reviewers' comments here and say this is an excellent book that is well worth the money, considering the price is relatively modest. It's definitely the best of 3 or 4 books I've bought recently on the subject of outdoor photography.	2001-05-18
1998432:US	45193257	R469Q70LOX4M6	0449001245	435088297	Naked Came the Manatee	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Another comment	I forgot to mention something in my previous review. The title of the earlier book back in the 60's was &quot;Naked Came the Stranger.&quot; The book was actually a hoax written by 25 writers who couldn't get their serious work published, so they wrote something they thought would--a trashy, sex-filled novel. Hence the title of this book, &quot;Naked Came the Manatee,&quot; an allusion to the original hoax.	2001-05-15
2018627:US	45193257	R39UUB05672TPH	0395182433	802591477	Physics: Fundamentals and Frontiers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great teacher	I had Bob Stollberg for an Introductory Electronics class in the Physics Dept. at San Francisco State University back in the late 70's. Bob was a fantastic teacher and his classes were always worth taking. His books are no different. He delights in teaching the non-specialist in physics, and he knows how to explain difficult concepts so they are understandable to non-physics majors. His classes were a lot of fun as well as very educational. There should be more great teachers like Bob Stollberg.	2001-04-27
2018933:US	45193257	RESRML69YWWB6	0689305400	678313056	A striving after wind	Books	5	2	12	N	N	A great teacher	There are at least three books with the title of \\"Striving After Wind,\\" one by Peter Stone, one by Norma Johnstone, and the last by the late, great, biology professor and ethologist, Jack Tomlinson at San Francisco State University. Since Dr. Tomlinson's book isn't listed, I wanted to write about it here as a tribute to him.<br /><br />Dr. Tomlinson's book was actually about insect ethology and behavior, and a great book it was. One facet of the book I liked was the discussion of the more quantifiable aspects of insect behavior, which I found very interesting. Dr. Tomlinson had great enthusiasm for his subject and had a flair for making his subject exciting as well.<br /><br />Dr. Tomlinson was a many-sided intellect and in addition to his interest in ethology, he held a Master Hypnotist's Licence and did research into hypnotism, had read the entire Encyclopedia Britannica and was on the editorial review board there, and last but not least, was a great biology teacher. I am proud to say I got the second highest grade in his large human biology lecture class the year I took it with over 120 students.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Dr. Tomlinson is no longer with us, but he was a great teacher and scientist and there should be more like him.***<br /><br />***I have been informed recently by a former colleague of Dr. Tomlinson's that he is quite alive and well. I apologize for the error and wanted to note it here.	2001-04-27
2020061:US	45193257	R1DNLS0QKK3CIK	0307640515	553293792	Weather (Golden Guides)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Fun little guide	This was one of the original Golden Guides done back in the 50's, along with The Stars, Rocks and Minerals, Birds, North American Trees, and some others. I collected and read just about all of these and it's surprising how much info they got into these little books. Each book is exactly 160 pages, if I remember right. Thus, they have a fixed format, so they have to be very careful about what they select for material since it all has to fit.<br />These books sold for 75 cents or 95 cents originally. They were great little educational tools when I was a schoolboy, and I could still read them with profit many years later.<br />The more specialized ones, such as Pond Life, Structural Geology, The Heart, Insect Pests, Spiders and Their Kin, Mushrooms and Non-Vascular plants, were also very good.	2001-04-26
2022955:US	45193257	RD5Y812TC6BZ2	9990371326	796600223	What Is Electronic Communication?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great teacher	I had Dan Q. Posin as an astronomy instructor at San Francisco State University in the mid-70's. Dan was a great teacher and his classes were fun as well as educational. I haven't read this book but if it's as good as the other things he's done, it's bound to be well worth the trouble of finding it and reading it.	2001-04-24
2023217:US	45193257	R143AC6OUDMZJ5	0307635406	699147273	Light and Color	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great little book	This is one of the little Golden Guides that is out of print.<br />It's one of the best however, and was written by the former chairman of the Physics dept. at San Francisco State University.<br />The explanations are clear and concise and for such a small book it contains a lot of good information. For example, I recall the explanations of additive and subtractive color mixing were great since this can be a somewhat confusing topic.<br />Definitely worth your while if you can find a copy.	2001-04-24
2025516:US	45193257	RJ3XQQDBJDVGR	0070178038	748272363	Evolution of the Earth	Books	5	21	31	N	N	Superb if it's as good as the first edition	I used the first edition of this book by Dott and Batten as an earth science major back in the early 70's, and thought it excellent. I don't know how the new edition stacks up, but the original book was as fine a piece of writing for a textbook as I had ever come across, and geology boasts better than average writers for such things. For example, there is the redoubtable Arthur Beiser, whose many books maintain both a high level of readabilty as well as scholarship.<br />One major change in the content of the book would no doubt be in regard to the theory of orogenesis, or mountain-building. The first book placed great emphasis on the geosynclinal theory and orthostatic rebound mechanisms. This one is sure to emphasize plate tectonics as the geosynclinal theory seems to have waned in popularity.<br />The original version of this text was one of the best science texts I ever used in college. If this later edition is half as good it will still be better than 90% of the others.	2001-04-21
2028912:US	45193257	R2WHAV9AXT9NZH	0679762884	227905124	High Output Management	Books	4	16	37	N	N	Good book but...	Perhaps the strategies in this book work because Intel's people work very hard at implementing them, not because they are inherently better than other ideas.<br />When I first started at Intel one of the things I noticed right off was how old Intel employees looked for their age (at least the ones that had been there for 7-10 years or more) compared to the other companies I had worked at over the years. I noticed women only in their early 30's who had worked there since their early 20's, for whom the rosy bloom of youth had long since departed from their cheeks. The men also looked older.<br />I am not especially young-looking for my age, but I frequently get comments from Intel employees about how young I look for my age. Maybe that's because I haven't been here that long. Outside of Intel I rarely get comments like this. I may not look that young to most people for my age, but at least I don't look older than my age.<br />On an even more sobering note, health researchers have found that people who look old for their age actually have shorter life expectancies, and correspondingly, people who look young for their age have longer life expectancies.<br />I suspect that Intel's workaholic employees are the main reason for its success, but I wonder if they themselves understand the toll this success has exacted from them.	2001-04-19
2031084:US	45193257	R3BJPQDAA1KVZP	0380732335	643428545	Florida Road Kill: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	As wacky but more violent than Hiaasen	Florida Roadkill is about as good a substitute for Hiaasen as you will find. If you've read all of Hiaasen's and are looking for more, you won't be disappointed in this book, or it's sequel, Hammerhead Ranch Motel. Dorsey even seems to be giving Hiaasen a nod because the main character, Serge, is just as crazy as Skink (only more diabolical) and the title seems to recall Skink's roadkill diet.<br /><br />The resemblance between the two writers is perhaps not surprising since they both write for south Florida papers, Dorsey in Tampa and Hiaasen with the Miami Herald, I think.<br /><br />Anyway, Dorsey is a lot like Hiaasen only with a significantly more violent twist. People are always getting bumped off, often in very creative ways. There are lots more bad guys in his books, and very few good guys. The bad guys therefore go around scamming, duping, and otherwise preying on each other, and as we all know, there's no honor among thieves. So the bodies pile up like dominoes as the plot progresses.<br /><br />Dorsey also comes up with some of the most entertaining one-liners in the business. For example, he describes the people in a Florida Greyhound bus station like this: \\"The inability to master life hung in the air like a toxic mist.\\"<br /><br />I didn't mind the fact that there is no ending and the book continues with Hammerhead Ranch Motel. If I have one quip with Dorsey, it's that everyone seems to get shot in the face.<br /><br />Sharon the cocaine-snorting floozy shoots two Canadian tourists in the face early on. Coleman gets his face shot off by the three Costa Gordons with silenced Uzi's. Then one of the Costa Gordons gets shot in the mouth by police officer Tchoupitoulas. Charles Saffron shoots the guy the Costa Gordons were roughing up about 6 times in the face, surprising even the Costa Gordons (a small island in the Carribean) with his enthusiastic viciousness. Once in a while, someone should get shot somewhere else. (Serge apparently gets shot in the chest instead of the face or head, because Dorsey can't kill him off since he needs to appear in the sequel.)<br /><br />Other than the obsession with people getting their face's shot off, I liked this book.Dorsey can't kill him off since he needs to appear in the sequel.)    Other than the obsession with people getting their face's shot off, I liked this book.	2001-04-17
2036823:US	45193257	RT4R80UQYPIEA	0887306101	104525701	Market Wizards	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding book	I found this to be an outstanding book. Some of it will be somewhat esoteric, one of the interviews is with an options broker, who would be on the sell side, which most of us will never see. However, his descriptions of how even a broker can get hurt and what they need to be on the alert for were very interesting.<br />I agree with another reviewer here that the interview with Richard Dennis was worth the price of the book by itself.<br />There are people here who trade bonds, futures, options, and currencies. Well-done interviews with them are the keystone of this book. They tell you exactly what was going through their minds and why they acted the way they did in a given situation.<br />One of the most important things I took away from this book how each area of trading was truly a specialty in and of itself, and these guys are masters of their respective disciplines.<br />Also, there is the very interesting interview with the great &quot;swing trader&quot; Paul Tudor Jones, who has the uncanny ability to tell when market swings at the bottom or the top are going to occur. Anyway, I think it was in the interview with Jones where he says that he couldn't have made money in stocks, they're just too random compared to futures!	2001-04-12
2042833:US	45193257	R2LGIMPUM7ERRG	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Extremely entertaining--and it might save your life, too	This is one of the most entertaining books I've ever encountered by chance. I saw it on the counter standing in the checkout line at an Office Depot store, if you can believe that, as these are not really bookstores, and the title caught my eye, and I'm glad it did.<br />This book would be a little discovery if only for the entertainment value. However, the book has useful advice on getting out of many situations, although it's unlikely that the average reader will ever have much use for the more James Bond-sounding scenarios, such as &quot;How to maneuver on top of a moving train and get inside,&quot; &quot;How to jump from a building into a dumpster,&quot; &quot;How to survive if your parachute doesn't open, and so on. However, these are probably the most entertaining part of the book.<br />Other tips such as &quot;How to treat frostbite,&quot; How to get away from a mountain lion,&quot; How to wrestle free from an alligator,&quot; and &quot;How to escape from killer bees,&quot; might be more useful. I also liked &quot;How to deal with a downed power line,&quot; and &quot;How to survive an avalanche.&quot;<br />Anyway, there is some practical advice here for emergencies but I think the book was worth the money I paid just for the laugh factor.	2001-04-06
2044125:US	45193257	RUS11ZSOCV3Q7	0671042769	638231493	Smiley's People	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More than just a spy novel	Other people have written more complete reviews of this book, but I just had a few comments to make.<br />LeCarre's book's have claims to serious literature, not just spy novels, and I think this is one of his best. LeCarre, like all great novelists, is good at characterization, and a great observer of people.<br />Which brings me to my main point. You don't ever want LeCarre describing your face. He is always noticing odd things about people's faces, especially the moisture on a person's face. I noted this several times before. He'll make you sound like a greasy second-story man no matter what you look like, it seems.<br />My point notwithstanding, LeCarre is a great novelist.	2001-04-05
2045175:US	45193257	R2HSI9MO4CKYH3	0393309274	324003772	Extinction: Bad Genes or Bad Luck?	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting book	Raup's thesis (that die-offs occur because of large meteor strikes) is interesting because there is some support for it in the paleontological record, such as the infamous K-T extinction of the dinosaurs. His application of statistics to catastrophic die-offs and extinctions is a major facet of the book, but you don't really need to know much math to understand it, so don't let that put you off. He explains everything very well.<br /><br />The most important concept in the book is the diagram where he shows the frequency of die-offs as a function of the diameter of the meteor. It's been several years since I read the book, but if I recall right, a meteor 100 miles in diameter is considered enough to basically wipe out all life. However, Raup points out that this sort of strike would only be expected to occur every 100 million years, or more. For smaller meteor strikes the damage goes down proportionally but the frequency of the strikes, of course, goes up. These smaller meteors account for smaller, but more frequent, die-offs that have occurred over geological time.<br /><br />The greater number of smaller strikes and die-offs is the most interesting thing in the whole book, if Raup's interpretation of the evidence is correct. But another thing Raup points out is that we have become better at identifying meteor strikes that occurred millions of years ago. This has increased the total of strikes known and provided a larger sample for Raup to work from in deriving his interesting graph. Such a smaller strike wouldn't wipe out all life, but it could be enough to cause complete destruction to an area tens or hundreds of thousands of square miles in area. (For example, the state of Colorado is just under 270,000 square miles, which is also almost exactly the size of the country of New Zealand).<br /><br />Also on this note, I recall back in the early 60's, the asteroid Eros, which is fairly thin but about 20 miles in diameter (essentially it's about the size and shape of Manhatten Island) passed within a million miles of earth. That's just a hair by astronomical standards, and that was within recent memory.<br /><br />So maybe Raup is just possibly onto something?<br /><br />In addition to Raup's idea that meteors account for periodic die-offs, his idea is interesting for another reason.<br /><br />Back in the early 19th century, when geology and paleontology were becoming sciences, it used to be thought that sudden, catastrophic changes in the earth's geology were the main mechanisms by which the earth's surface was changed over time and transformed.<br /><br />For example, there were the Vulcanists (no, they are not from Star Trek) who believed that diastrophic processes (i.e., vulcanism and other heat-generated processes) were responsible for transforming the earth's surface and atmosphere in geologic times.<br /><br />Then there were the Neptunists, who held that great floods had transformed the earth's surface (such as in the case of the Noachian Deluge, in the Bible).<br /><br />Then in the mid-1800's came Charles Lyell (who was also Darwin's geology professor), who documented gradual changes, such as those occurring as a result of erosion. Lyell's ideas become known as Uniformitarianism, which contrasted with the earlier theories of Catastrophism, of which Vulcanism and Neptunism are examples.<br /><br />So Raup's idea is essentially a return to an earlier form of geological explanation, in that it lands him back in the Catastrophism camp.<br /><br />Overall, a good book on the catastrophic theory of extinctions due to meteor strikes.d within a million miles of earth. That's just a hair by astronomical standards, and that was within recent memory.    So maybe Raup is just possibly onto something?    In addition to Raup's idea that meteors account for periodic die-offs, his idea is interesting for another reason.    Back in the early 19th century, when geology and paleontology were becoming sciences, it used to be thought that sudden, catastrophic changes in the earth's geology were the main mechanisms by which the earth's surface was changed over time and transformed.     For example, there were the Vulcanists (no, they are not from Star Trek) who believed that diastrophic processes (i.e., vulcanism and other heat-generated processes) were responsible for transforming the earth's surface and atmosphere in geologic times.    Then there were the Neptunists, who held that great floods had transformed the earth's surface (such as in the case of the Noachian Deluge, in the Bible).    Then in the mid-1800's came Charles Lyell (who was also Darwin's geology professor), who documented gradual changes, such as those occurring as a result of erosion. Lyell's ideas become known as Uniformitarianism, which contrasted with the earlier theories of Catastrophism, of which Vulcanism and Neptunism are examples.    So Raup's idea is essentially a return to an earlier form of geological explanation, in that it lands him back in the Catastrophism camp.    Overall, a good book on the catastrophic theory of extinctions due to meteor strikes.	2001-04-04
2052201:US	45193257	RXXGWHCCSDTO5	0395683297	203612813	Silent Spring	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A few comments	While people were being galvanized about the DDT problem in the 1960's due to Carson's book, they remained unaware of pesticides such as dieldrin, a mercuric-oxide-based pesticide even worse than DDT. Dieldrin was in wide use in states such as Wisconsin in the 1940s and 50s, where it got out of control and killed an estimated 1 billion fish, birds, and small mammals. The bad thing about dieldrin is that it can accumulate all the way up the food chain to a much greater degree than DDT.<br />However, one strange thing about DDT I learned is that it basically accumulates in fat cells. In a fascinating article I read some years ago, the author said that theoretically, someone who was very overweight, say 50 pounds or so, and who had been exposed to small amounts of DDT over time, could have a toxic reaction if they lost weight too quickly. This is because the DDT is relatively inert once it's sequestered in the fat cells. However, if this person started dropping weight quickly, perhaps as a result of a crash diet, the DDT would get dumped into the bloodstream because of all the fat the person was burning, thereby causing a toxic reaction.<br />Anyway, Carson's book is still a classic and there is no doubt the wake-up call it sounded was responsible for galvanizing the public's awareness about these issues, as well as producing important legislation and policies relating to the environment.	2001-03-29
2054374:US	45193257	RL5CWB4H23E6P	1558216790	170588660	Batfishing in the Rainforest: Strange Tales of Travel and Fishing	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Funny travel writing	This is usually not my sort of book, but after reading the first story, I was hooked. This story, &quot;The Legend,&quot; about the author's hilarious Chesapeake Bay retriever, is worth the price of the book by itself, especially if you're a dog lover or animal lover, because it's the best story about a dog, or any animal, that I've ever read.<br />But there is plenty more where that came from in this entertaining collection of essays. Although not what I was looking for initially, this book was a delightful surprise, and after reading this, Mr. White has another fan. I now intend to buy and read all of his other books, and I'm recommending him to my other friends as well.	2001-03-27
2075449:US	45193257	R1AM1NCIXO0T8F	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	16	24	N	N	How to really use this book	I read this book standing up in a bookstore in about 20 minutes it's such a quick read. The story, told in the form of a parable from the standpoint offour storybook characters, is about how to cope with change and even anticipat it, if possible enjoy it, and how to make it work for you.<br />  It's sort of a cute idea, and actually I wished I'd thought of it myself, since it looks like this book is selling like hotcakes. But I'm glad I didn't have to spend my own money, because the book's message is pretty basic: change is inevitable, so you either get in sync with it or or get run over.<br />  It is difficult to disagree with this idea in theory. However, in practice (especially in the corporate world) there is too much change just for the sake of change that is not particularly well thought out or original and therefore not likely to produce anything positive in the way of results. Or the changes are based on a good idea that had real potential but the execution is so poor that it has little effect or ends up causing more harm than good. There are even times it is obvious to everybody (except management) that the new changes are completely wrong-headed but get executed anyway, and then they're surprised when they have a disaster on their hands.<br />  That having been said, given that changes are quickly and inexorably coming your way, this little book may provide you with some attitude-changing homilies that may make it somewhat easier to &quot;get with the program,&quot; whether it makes sense or not.     Also, not to sound too cynical, but it's just the reality of the situation--management loves it when employees really get behind these things--so you can probably win points that way with your boss if you do. Again, at the risk of sounding too Machiavellian, you do have a choice in terms of how you handle change that will put you in management's good graces or not--and may even influence your future career or not--irrespective of the validity of the changes themselves. <br />  The principle lesson here is that it is better to be an agent for change rather than just remaining passive and having them forced on you anyway. The choice is up to you.	2001-03-09
2080549:US	45193257	R1BWF89DSWJH1D	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pleasant page-burner	Or in this case, mileage-burner, since I listened to the tapes during my usual 40-minute commute to and from work. A friend gave me the recording and I decided to try it. It consisted of four 2-hour tapes. I'd listened to short sci-fi stories on tape before but had never tried a full-length novel.<br />  The person reading the book does a good job of doing the different voices. It appears to have been &quot;voiced&quot; by a single actor/reader who does everything. It's not exactly like having a full-production with different actors but it was okay as is, as the person who did it is pretty good with the different voices.<br />As a pleasant way to pass the time while driving in the car, you could do worse. The basic premise of the story is that you can use some properties of quantum particles to travel between different worlds made possible by these different quantum dimensions or properties.<br />One of the scientist characters explains this is based on some speculation and/or research by Richard Feynman, the famous physicist and Nobel Laureate. I am a little out of date with my physics, but what I do recall is a little different from the way it was explained in the story. Feynman once showed mathematically that a positron could be explained as an electron moving backwards in time. This doesn't mean this is how it works out in reality--merely that there is no mathematical problem or contradiction in describing it this way.<br />But back to the book. Whatever the real explanation is, Crichton uses this quantum time-travel gimmick to take you on a swashbuckling adventure back to the midst of the Hundred Years War in France, in the mid-1300's. This was a very dangerous time, where treachery and death seemed to lurk behind every castle or even monastery wall. An important professor has disappeared back into this time, and a rescue party is dispatched to retrieve him. One of the team is a modern archaeologist who is expert on the period and can even speak Middle English and French. He has waited his whole life for a chance like this, but even he gets more than he bargained for.<br />I'm about 3/4 thru with the tapes so I don't know who it ends yet, but as a pleasant way to pass otherwise wasted commute time, this little historical thriller was better than most. No doubt it will be made into a movie.ish and French. He has waited his whole life for a chance like this, but even he gets more than he bargained for. <br />I'm about 3/4 thru with the tapes so I don't know who it ends yet, but as a pleasant way to pass otherwise wasted commute time, this little historical thriller was better than most. No doubt it will be made into a movie.	2001-03-05
2088777:US	45193257	RJA797N2HWMTC	0316373125	799693918	Beyond Basic Photography: A Technical Manual	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Useful book	I read this book after Photography for Dummies, and it was just what I needed to get a more technical slant on some things. I am still basically a neophyte at photography, so there was a lot of new, useful, more in-depth info in this book for me. I thought the author's discussion of exposure issues was especially good, as getting a feel for all of the things that affect this, and how they interact with the developing process, is one of the things that separates the experienced photographer from the less skilled.<br />For example, the author discusses of how and why you should expose for the shadows, and develop for the highights, and why even a negative that is overexposed by two stops is still usable versus one that is underexposed. Since the negative reverses everything, it is impossible to recover from an underexposed negative for the shadows, since you can't get detail that isn't there, no matter how long you develop. However, film that is overexposed for the shadows can still be used because there are ways to deal with the highlights during developing.<br />Overall, I found the book full of useful info like this and can recommend it to photography buffs who want a more in-depth understanding of the processes.	2001-02-26
2100918:US	45193257	R3UJJCE5MJIL28	0380807904	606105498	Snake 'n' Bacon's Cartoon Cabaret	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Funny and bizarre	I am a fan of Bill Fitzhugh and as he recommended it I decided to try it.<br />Black humour, satire, and tongue-in-cheek send-ups on just about everything related to underground comics abound in Kupperman's little tour-de-force. Kupperman is endlessly inventive with weird super-hero ideas, such as &quot;Underpants on his head man.&quot; Some of the other strips like Roger Daltry's Sex Diary, Long John Silver's Sex Diary, The Party Sex Blimps, Ozzy Osbourne in the 25rh century, are hilarious.<br />I like the way Kupperman takes famous people from the past, such as Einstein, Mark Twain, and Poe and reinvents them as superheroes. A lot of the humour in his work comes from that.<br />A lot of it is more weird than funny, but there is enough truly funny stuff to make it worth reading through the dry patches. To me it's a lot like what Mark Leyner would do if he did comics strips. As Bill Fitzhugh said in his review, a lot of the humour in Kupperman's work comes from the concept itself. And he's a damn good artist and illustrator as well.	2001-02-16
2116933:US	45193257	R1PQE97NTXCPNC	0440351626	838354674	The Magus	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Amazing first book	This is the first book Fowles wrote, an amazing achievement considering how ambitious the work actually is, but Fowles pulls it off.<br />I've already written one previous review here when I wasn't yet that far into it, but my suspicions have so far been confirmed. I've read most of the book now and just wanted to make one other small comment.<br />About 1/3 of the way into the book Nicholas finally finds out that Conchis, (the &quot;Magus&quot;), is, or was, a psychiatrist. Conchis no longer practices but at one time wrote a number of papers on schizophrenia, which was his particular specialty.<br />At this point it is obvious that Nicholas is up against a doctor of the mind who is playing some kind of game of the mind, and is completely out-classed. Not only that, but his specialty is basically studying how the mind blurs fantasy and reality, which is what the game they are playing is all about, too.  Nicholas suspects he should get out while he still can but he also realizes he is hooked.<br />I still have yet to see how it will end but I'm sure it will be interesting, whatever it is.	2001-02-03
2144951:US	45193257	R13CGLS5IBLU7G	081743710X	655820305	John Shaw's Landscape Photography	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Excellent for the beginner	This was an excellent book for me as I needed to get a better foundation in the fundamentals. For an experienced photo buff I think this book would be too basic.<br />For me, though, I needed to get a better background in understanding things like exposure and exposure control issues, depth of field, hyperfocal distance, filters, lighting issues, and so on. Also the many tips and tricks Shaw discusses throughout the book are good.<br />My one strength is I know how to compose a good photo. I just needed to learn more about good camera technique to enhance my photos and this book was useful to bootstrap me to the next level.<br />The book has lots of nice photos. They're all shot with Fuji Velvia so the colors are extra saturated. I don't mind this but I suppose people develop a taste for these things. My one quip is that Shaw doesn't mention exposure settings in the captions for the photos.<br />All in all a good book for a beginner to get a leg up on some of the technical issues and improve his skills and photographic technique.	2001-01-10
2161111:US	45193257	R2A99G9ID7QUJ0	0240803469	254394696	John Hedgecoe's New Introductory Photography Course	Books	4	7	10	N	N	So far so good	I only just last January bought a good camera (a Rollei QZ35W) and started to do some serious shooting. It wasn't cheap but I couldn't pass it up as it originally listed for $1800 but was being closed out at $999, so I went for it. But it has some great features despite still being a \\"cadillac point and shoot,\\" such as the ability to store the exposure settings in memory for the last 100 photos, not to mention the amazing 1/8000th of a second top shutter speed.<br />I have two friends who are very technically savvy photographers and have helped me a lot, but I thought I should read a few books to try to fill in some of the inevitable \\"holes\\" in my background. My problem is probably the reverse of most experienced photographers: I have few technical skills at this point as I just let my Rollei run pretty much on automatic the whole time, but I think I have a pretty good aesthetic sense because I have a couple of friends who are semi-professional photographers and although they are often able to give me suggestions on how I could have improved the photo technically had I been shooting on manual override rather than on automatic, they're often very complementary about my choice of a subject, how I framed the subject, and how I composed the picture.<br />That being the case, I kept seeing Hedgecoe's books and thought I would give one a try and see if I could learn something. So far this book has been fine for me, since I pretty much need to start from the ground up, but anybody with even a minimum of experience would probably find it too basic. Still, it's okay if you're like me and just wanted to make sure you had a solid foundation in the fundamentals before advancing to the next level.	2000-12-29
2202929:US	45193257	R39SVS49NVW8A8	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Excellent	Rather than write a general review of this book, which I may do with another time, I just had one comment to make for now. Wilson is also known for his biological determinism (he is, after all, a biologist). He soft pedals these ideas, probably in order not to offend liberal-minded scientists.<br />However, Wilson is quite moderate on these issues, compared, for example, to the neuroscientists. I was trained in both psychology and neurophysiology, and the neurophysiologist types are much more hard-core on the determinism issue, making Wilson look like a moderate.<br />For example, when I was in school, and you learn in your Functional Neurology class of a guy who had a small stroke in the cerebral cortex, who then seemed perfectly fine except for his losing his ability to use articles and conjunctions in his speaking vocabulary, you very quickly get the idea that if it's not in the brain, it's not anywhere. Of course, people who have more extensive brain damage may have more general impairments, but this is only one example of how specific they can get.<br />Probably the strangest example of this sort of specificity I encountered during my education is with respect to the orgasm center in the human brain, which if I recall at this point, is in the ventral posterolateral nucleus in the thalamus. But anyway, it's in the thalamus somewhere, which is a structure located just below the cerebral cortex, and functions as a way station or relay station, sending signals further up to the cortex.<br />However, some touch sensations do get processed in the thalamus. For example, there are these people who have developed epileptic seizure foci in this area. Well, you could say this is not exactly an unpleasant type of epilepsy to have, considering the &quot;seizures&quot; go on for several minutes and produce orgasm-type feelings the whole time that are probably an order of magnitude more intense than the normal ones. (No convulsions are associated with this type of epilepsy).<br />Anyway, when you continually encounter these sorts of brain phenomena, so-called hard-core &quot;determinists&quot; like Wilson start to look very wishy-washy on the determinism issue..<br />Anyway, when you continually encounter these sorts of brain phenomena, so-called hard-core &quot;determinists&quot; like Wilson start to look very wishy-washy on the determinism issue.	2000-11-21
2213853:US	45193257	R72LACCKUEWXU	0887306160	301510076	Managing in Turbulent Times	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Still the best	I think Drucker, even after all these years, still stands head and shoulders above the other management gurus, writers, and flash-in-the-pans that we've seen in recent decades. His thoughts and insights are still the most profound in the business and this recent book is no exception.	2000-11-11
2214634:US	45193257	R1SCMVW4EKNR04	0531018679	209750772	Paintings: How to Look at Great Art	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great way to jump-start yourself	I have read and studied literally hundreds of books on art history and architecture, and this little book is the best way to &quot;jump-start&quot; yourself on the subject. Rather than another book on art history per se, however, this book is more on how to &quot;look at&quot; some of the great paintings in history, getting you to &quot;see&quot; some of the things that are special or unique about them, without bogging you down in a lot of historical detail, which is what a typical art history text will do.<br />The author presents a number of important paintings with a descriptive commentary opposite, so you can just flip through through the book if you want since each essay is self-contained. The author tells you in very simple terms what to look for in each painting, explaining a number of important concepts along the way, such as perspective technique, sfumato, chiarascuro and other special lighting effects such as those in La Tour and Vermeer, pointillistic effects, and so on.<br />Armed with the knowledge from this little book, you will be able to look at paintings with a new awareness of what is really going on, and can move on to more advanced study on the subject.	2000-11-11
2214743:US	45193257	R1V7EDG22EQNG8	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Fascinating history	I knew very little about military history before reading this book, but after this I felt I understood at least some basic principles. Keegan discusses three famous battles in history and why they were significant: the Battle of Agincourt, the Battle of the Somme, the archetypal &quot;trench warfare&quot; battle of World War I, and the Battle of Waterloo.<br />Keegan shows how the battle of the Somme really boiled down to the British artillery versus the German machine gunners hiding in their underground bunkers. The large artillery with their 2000-pound shells could blow craters 30 feet deep, but even this wasn't deep enough to &quot;dig out&quot; the deepest German machine gunners. Hence, when the British artillery bombardment stopped and the infantry made their charge, there were enough German machine gunners left in the their bunkers to come back up to the surface and still decimate many of the British infantry companies.<br />An interesting figure Keegan quotes is that artillery accounts for 90% of the casualties in a ground battle.<br />In the case of Waterloo, Keegan shows how the supposedly fearsome cavalry charges could effectively be nullified by men with single-shot flintlocks only if they stood their ground, remained in formation and coordinated their fire, and didn't panic and allow themselves to be dispersed by the cavalry charge. If they did this and fired from close enough range to be accurate, the cavalry charges could be broken up, disintegrated, and defeated.<br />The battle of Agincourt pitted men with medieval weapons against each other one on one. No weapons of mass destruction here, but he says in the middle of the worst fighting areas the bodies could still be piled six or seven high. He also offers some interesting insights into the psychology of the medieval knight, and states that plundering the bodies was one of the main economic motivations for such a pitched one-on-one battle, something I hadn't heard before.<br />Overall, a very readable book on the subject with many interesting insights into military strategy and psychology.ble book on the subject with many interesting insights into military strategy and psychology.	2000-11-10
2215402:US	45193257	R33UU2LTXCNTR5	0938294369	398076972	Invisibility & Levitation : How-To Keys To Personal Performance	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Much ado about nothing	The author is probably laughing all the way to the bank about all the gullible people who bought this book. The book contains no real instruction on how to become invisible or levitate. There is some half-way interesting history but I don't think you can trust the author even at this level. The Satanical rituals are there just for the sensationalism; what does that have to do with invisibility or levitation, anyway? Hard to believe people could be taken in by this nonsense.	2000-11-10
2215759:US	45193257	R2R3YZ7KA3FTB0	0689701799	577168892	Galaxies	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Important pioneer	Shapley discovered the &quot;halo&quot; of globular clusters orbiting the Milky Way early in the 20th century and made other important discoveries about ours and other galaxies. This book is an interesting introduction to this fascinating area of astronomy.<br />Unfortunately, Shapley's scientific autobiography, &quot;Through Rugged Ways to the Stars,&quot; is no longer available, which was worth reading. (Also, it was a fairly short as biographies go).	2000-11-10
2227278:US	45193257	R2GUDGDWX4RB41	044151605X	372334429	Make Room Make Room	Books	4	74	82	N	N	Prophetic	This book scared the hell out of me when I read it as a young teenager back in the 60's, because it was so believable. I was sure this was what the future of America held. At the time, overpopulation was a big issue, what with books like Paul Ehrlich's The Population Bomb, The 20th Century Book of the Dead by Gil Elliot, and so on, dramatizing the issue. There seemed no doubt in many people's minds that something similar to the world portrayed in this novel would be the reality in 35 years if nothing were done to halt the population explosion, and since nothing really was being done in that regard, this seemed like a foregone conclusion.<br />Well, 35 years later the world hasn't quite worked out this way, which still amazes me no end, although David Brin's recent novel, Earth, is an updated reprisal of this theme. Harrison's book is still a great read. Another book on the same theme that came out a few years later was John Brunner's novel, Stand on Zanzibar, which won a Hugo award for that year. So if you enjoyed this book you might also want to try these two novels.	2000-10-30
2227311:US	45193257	R1VWGS5VBXPAEF	0140249281	620102767	The White House Mess	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not his best, but still pretty good	This book is still funny, although it is greatly overshadowed by Buckley's later books, Little Green Men and Thank You for Smoking, which are two of the most outlandishly hilarious novels ever written. As a memoir of an ill-fated, disaster-prone, fictional administration, it has its moments, and if you have read the two more recent books, I can still recommend this one, although it won't give you the belly laughs that Thank You for Smoking and Little Green Men did. If you've already read those two and are looking for something else by the same author, this one is still worthwhile.	2000-10-30
2227368:US	45193257	R1VRPOFJRWR93B	0451526597	808071278	The Perfumed Garden of Cheikh Nefzaoui: A Manual of Arabian Erotology (Signet Classics)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Entertaining historical oddity	I came across this book at random in a book store, never having heard or seen it before, and spent some time perusing it, reading several of the chapters, so although I haven't read the whole thing, I have some idea of what's it's about.  This is basically the Arabic Kama Sutra. The Cheikh obviously intended this book to be useful as a practical manual for any man in his sex life, and, considering it was written in the 16th century, it just goes to show you that not much has changed when it comes to sex. Some of the sections are downright funny, such as the chapter that begins with all the Arabic terms and descriptions for the different personalities or &quot;types of vulvas.&quot; They are described in words such as (I forget the Arabic terms, but anyway, the definition is the funny part): &quot;The Hungry One: this is the vulva of a woman who has not had intercourse in a long time. It will not allow you to withdraw until you have entered it again and again.&quot; Other names translate as &quot;the great one,&quot; and &quot;the playful one.&quot; There are other even funnier descriptions, which I don't recall right now, but anyway, this will give you some idea of what they're like.  Anyway, this book is entertaining if only for some of the choicer sections such as the above.	2000-10-30
2227788:US	45193257	R2WPE4RV2ZWSZ3	0897500229	620329229	Knife Self-Defense for Combat (Special Forces/Ranger-Udt/Seal Hand-To-Hand Combat/Special Weapons/Special Tactics Series)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good as far as it goes	This book is good as an explanation of traditional hwa rang do techniques against knife attack. The techniques emphasize spinning, locking, and throwing type methods, which is fine as far as it goes, in a situation where the attacker commits himself to one main attack.<br />However, a skilled adversary with a knife will be more likely to &quot;stalk&quot; you and wait for an opening. In that case you need to have finely honed blocking, parrying, trapping, and similar defensive skills, and this takes very fast reflexes.<br />Especially more advanced martial artists need to practice this sort of attack and defense situation, where the opponent tries multiple attacks and feints while you defend. Sometimes the best defense against a knife is just a low side-thrust kick to the knee after the attacker has thrust and is starting to withdraw, but again, this requires exceptional countering abilities.<br />Basically, no matter how skilled you are, you are forced into a defensive stance of waiting for an opening defending bare-handed agaist a knife. This means you need to have lightning quick reflexes and the ability to instantly follow up a succssful block, parry, trap, or dodge with an effective punch, strike or kick or combination. Once you have developed this sort of ability, at that point if you want to incorporate techniques such as these, that's okay.	2000-10-30
2252715:US	45193257	R2FURQ53TGFAEB	0306408740	549275279	The Limbic System	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Important classic	This was the classic work on the limbic system when I was a doctoral student in neurobiology. After about 50 pages of pretty intense neuroanatomy on the various areas, the author gets into the real meat of the book, discussing the functional aspects of this important area. Many of the studies concern results from classical ablation-type and electrophysiological experiments.<br /><br />The concluding and final chapter of the book is the most interesting, because here Isaacson proposes a general theory of the limbic system and what it really does. His idea is very subtle--the limbic system is concerned with the selective inhibition of retroactive interference. This means it is involved with an extremely pervasive but subtle aspect of learning. He mentions Lethe, who was the Greek god of forgetfulness. He suggests the limbic system has a comparable role in the overall functioning brain. I thought this was very interesting idea.<br /><br />I have been out of the field for some years now, but at the time I predicted that the limbic system and cognitive neuroscience would become a big area. This was back in the late 70's. I can only say that this prediction was right on, based on what has happened since, what with books like Joseph Ledoux's The Emotional Brain and others having been written since that time.<br /><br />But back when I was a grad student Isaacson's book was the only general survey of limbic system research I could find, and it made for fascinating reading. It was through this great book that I first acquired a detailed understanding of structures such as the amygdala, hippocampus, septal nucleus,  cingulate gyrus, and the other important limbic system areas.	2000-10-10
2256515:US	45193257	R2S0GGUV64YBDO	0804811636	940345206	The Essence of Okinawan Karate-Do (Shorin-Ryu) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Outstanding book	This is the only book I've ever seen documenting the Matsubayashi-ryu style of Shorin-ryu. The most important part of the book is the forms, which I have also never seen elsewhere.<br />In addition to the coverage of the forms, which includes all 18 kata, Nagamine gives an interesting historical account of the style, including many anecdotal stories about many of the other masters who have contributed so much to it, such as Kyan, Motobu, and others.<br />I am interested in the evolution of the various karate forms, and in that context it is fun to compare the forms here that have been passed on, in modified form, to Shotokan and related styles where there is Shorin-ryu as well as Shorei-ryu influence. Of course, the Pinan 1-5 and the Naihanchi 1-3 series are known as the Heien 1-5 and the Tekki 1-3 forms in Shotokan. However, the Matsubayashi versions of Wanshu, Passai, and Kusanku, although greatly modified, are still recognizable in their Shotokan versions as Empi, Bassai Dai, and Kwanku.<br />The book would make for fascinating study if only for the kata information. The book is a must for all practitioners of this style and for all those interested learning about the historical importance of the Okinawan styles.	2000-10-06
2256601:US	45193257	R1X607WNN9AUDS	055329024X	707064829	Earth	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Epic work	Epic work on the fate of our planet in the year 2038. Brin sets a compelling story against a highly believeable and realistic backdrop of issues such as overpopulation, the scarcity of natural resources, universal environmental degradation and pollution, the information super-highway, and so on.<br /><br />The book is 700 pages long but it is such a good story you hardly notice the length. An excellent, possibly great, Sci-Fi book which will probably become an enduring classic, despite my having a little problem with the ending (which I won't mention here so as not to provide any spoilers), but perhaps that's subjective, and if you decide to read it, you can decide that for yourself.	2000-10-06
2256612:US	45193257	R1C8GPJW4V3QGO	0804804834	635938657	Defense Against Multiple Assailants (Practical Karate Series) (Bk.3)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The only one	This book is one of the most interesting and important in this six-book series, as it is the only work I've ever seen devoted exclusively to the subject of defense against multiple assailants. The author presents a large number of scenarios and their variations and how to defend against them. There is good coverage on the different types of situations. For example, the author shows several situations where you are being held by two people while the third attacks, or where your hands are even tied, forcing you to use your feet to block and strike.<br />I think a book on this subject makes a lot of sense. From my long experience as both a student and an instructor in a number of different martial arts, multiple attacker defenses are uniformly neglected in training in the schools. This book helps to make up for this oversight. Altogether an excellent book on a frequently neglected area of training.	2000-10-06
2256713:US	45193257	RBOP71O00ZBWV	0897500008	681326676	Chon-Ji of Tae Kwon Do Hyung (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First and best ITF forms books	Jhoon Rhee's series of hyung books were the first in the U.S. documenting the ITF forms. Except for this first book, these books present two of the forms for each belt up to 1st degree Black Belt. This book uses the rest of the space to demonstrate the basic techniques.<br />Overall, excellent presentations of these forms, especially the photo sequences that show you the entire form on one page, which is very useful for quickly scanning the form. Also, the author indicates where the kiai should be, which other kata books I've seen neglect to show you.	2000-10-06
2256726:US	45193257	R1780WDJKG7N84	0874070406	90986532	Karate: Beginner to Black Belt	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Only book showing the Shukohkai forms	I credit Tegner with making a great deal of good martial arts information available at reasonable prices, starting in 1959 I remember right, with his book, \\"Karate, The Open Hand and Foot Fighting.\\" At the time there wasn't much out there on most of these subjects--for example, his book on Savate--not to mention all the books he did on the Asian martial arts. Also, the books always came out in soft cover and were very reasonably priced. You could find them in public libraries and bookstores all over the country. I once found several at a country bookstore in South Dakota back in the late 60's.<br />The importance of this book for me is the presentation of the Shukokai style forms. You'll see these have significant stylistic differences from the well-known Shotokan and Goju-Kai forms. Also, the 90-move brown belt form is extremely long for a karate form--another interesting aspect of the book. The Shotokan Kwanku Dai form at 68 moves isn't nearly as long, although Goju-Kai has the Suparinpei form at 108 moves, which, of the 80 or so karate forms I learned at one time or another, is the longest I'm aware of.<br />I'd like to know more about the origin of these, as the Shukohkai school has a reputation for being quite conservative and sticking to their tradition. Another characteristic of Shukohkai stylists is their preference for free-fighting from the front stance. Technically, if I recall correctly, the Shukohkai school is basically the Tani-ha Shorin-Ryu style, one of a number of Shorin-Ryu substyles. My main exposure to Shorin-Ryu has been to the Kobayashi and Matsubayashi-Ryu substyles, as well as Isshin-Ryu. (I am primarily Shotokan, and Taekwondo myself).<br />Anyway, as someone interested in the history and evolution of the different styles and especially the forms, this is the only book I know of that presents these interesting forms. The book would be important and interesting if only for that, in addition to the presention of the basic karate techniques.	2000-10-06
2257011:US	45193257	R59W3JZZZK3OV	0517426048	789650571	20000 Years Of World Painting	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Superb series	Great history in six small volumes on very high-quality, glossy paper so the repros really look good. Great way to learn about many of the important paintings in Western art, although there is one volume covering Chinese and Japanese painters, so artists like Hokusai get covered. I loved these books because each painting has its own page with the article on it opposite, so you can just flip through the book and read what you want, or go through it step by step. The volume with G.C. Argan's comments, on the early and high Renaissance period, is especially good. These little gems were $1.45 each when I bought them 25 years ago. I have the entire set and it's been extremely useful in gaining a quick understanding of many different paintings and artists.	2000-10-06
2257025:US	45193257	R3UOE1KI9X13WK	0313225826	701905754	The Nature of Violent Storms. (Science Study)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Some great first-hand stories	This book would be worth the price if only for several of the first-hand stories the author includes. For example, the author describes the only known case of a guy who rode out a tornado in his car and lived to tell about it. There are also a couple of hair-raising stories about ball lightning.<br />The guy who rode the twister was picked up with his wife in his Cadillac. He was carried 10 or 15 miles before the car was finally deposited in a corn field. Unfortunately, his wife was thrown clear of the car before landing and was killed, but the man lived to tell his story. One of the interesting things he reported was seeing balls of energy, undoubtably ball lightning, inside the tornado, but back in the 60's not much was known about this strange, atmospheric energy plasma. He said there were boulders the size of his head floating around and lightning would flash from one part of the twister to another. This guy gets credit for surviving the world's wildest roller-coaster ride.<br />The other two interesting stories were about ball lightning. A guy and his wife were watching TV in the middle of a storm somewhere in the midwest, Kansas probably, and suddenly a ball lightning comes out of the TV tube, flies across the room, hits the guy in the middle of his chest, and burns him to a crisp right in front of his wife. Pretty scary.<br />The last story I recall concerns a ball lightning that appeared inside an airliner. It started up near the cockpit and rolled down the aisle of the airplane, in full view of everybody, leaving a long scorch mark on the carpet as it went. It went the entire length of the aircraft until it got all the way back to the rear baggage compartment, where it finally exploded with a bang. Nobody was close enough to get hurt at that point and the aircraft landed without further incident. I'm glad I wasn't on that flight. Flying scares me enough as it is.<br />Anyway, the book would be worth it if only for the above stories, but there is also plenty of information about storms in general in this interesting little book.enty of information about storms in general in this interesting little book.	2000-10-06
2257072:US	45193257	R29VMAAVCOMM98	0685384497	229850537	Pentjak Silat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First book in U.S. on fascinating but obscure art	This is the only book on the many styles of Silat I'd seen up to this time, and probably in the 20 years since. I thought Draeger did a fine job presenting and documenting many of the aspects of this little-known art (at least in the west), and it was interesting to see how it resembled or differed from the many Japanese, Korean, Okinawan, and Chinese arts I've studied over the years. One difference, at least from the standpoint of the more linear, more power-oriented Japanese and Korean styles I've studied, is the greater emphasis on circular movements and techniques, evasive tactics, and less tendency to meet the opponent's power head on, along with the footwork to support such techniques. In recent years I've begun doing this to a much greater extent myself in my own training.<br />Draeger also seems to have gone to some trouble to get to as many of the different islands as he could to see the local styles, and I enjoyed his descriptions about some of the special features of each style, such as in the case of the high flying kicks of Perisai-diri, or the position on all fours on the sand that Harimau Pentjak Silat uses to get a purchase on unstable ground, from which the exponent leaps up into your face surprisingly quickly, clawing at your face.<br />Overall a fine book on an obscure art that deserves to be better known, and an interesting addition to your martial arts library.	2000-10-06
2257162:US	45193257	R9OK203ZG5R3A	0804804842	304194216	Practical Karate 4: Defense Against Armed Assailants (Practical Karate Series) (Bk.4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exclusive coverage	This is the only book I know of devoted exclusively to the subject of defense against weapons attacks. The author includes a large number of situations using just about every weapon you can think of. For example, besides the usual standard things like club, knife, and gun defenses, he also includes defense against a straight razor and a chain. Altogether an excellent book on this specialized topic.	2000-10-06
2257399:US	45193257	R3CJRGMDZ4E83C	0804816689	790069919	Karate the Art of "Empty-Hand" Fighting	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Early work but still great	Considering this book came out originally in 1960 and was the first large-format book on Karate I had seen up to that point, it is remarkable that it has rarely been exceeded in all the time since. The photos of the basic techniques are very clear. The applications sections are generous with good coverage of sparring and self-defense. Nishiyama was in his prime here and you can see the power and intensity in his techniques.<br /><br />I have a personal story about Nishiyama, although I didn't study with him myself, but one of own karate students did, and he told me this story. Nishiyama was in Los Angeles for some time back in the 60's and he was conducting a training session. One of the students, a guy by the name of Ray Dalke, who later led the U.C. Riverside Shotokan club to several national championship titles, was in the class. I met Dalke when I was a doctoral student at UCR back in the early 80's, but I actually heard this my student. Ray had never been very loose in the legs, especially the groin stretch, where you sit on the ground in a quasi-lotus position and bounce your knees up and down and try to get them all the way to the ground.<br /><br />Anyway, Nishiyama came around to Dalke, and noticed his problem. He says to Dalke, \\"You want to have loose lap?\\" (Sometimes Nishiyama's English was a bit rough, but the meaning came through loud and clear). Dalke says, \\"yes, Master, I do.\\" Nishiyama says again, \\"Are you sure you want to have loose lap?\\" Dalke says, \\"Yes, yes, Master, I want it more than anything!\\" At that moment Nishiyama jumps up into the air and comes down with both feet planted squarely on Dalke's knees, driving them all the way to the floor.<br /><br />Well, he said Dalke's scream of agony could be heard for two city blocks. They had to get an ambulance and take Dalke away. But he survived and was back later after he healed with the \\"loosest lap\\" you've ever seen. I hope Ray doesn't mind my telling his story. Like I said, I met Ray in about 1980 when he was the faculty karate instructor at UC Riverside and he was really a pretty cool guy, as well as an excellent instructor. He loved the Shotokan katas and I recall having an enjoyable discussion with him about some of the more advanced forms.<br /><br />Anyway, Nishiyama is one of the greats of the Shotokan style and this book is still one of the finest books on the subject. I will say one more thing about Nishiyama, which is that he has the most vicious-looking front kick I've ever seen. I've tried to emulate his style on this one but he's basically got the patent on it. Overall, still a great classic on the subject of karate that has rarely if ever been exceeded.80 when he was the faculty karate instructor at UC Riverside and he was really a pretty cool guy, as well as an excellent instructor. He loved the Shotokan katas and I recall having an enjoyable discussion with him about some of the more advanced forms.<br /><br />Anyway, Nishiyama is one of the greats of the Shotokan style and this book is still one of the finest books on the subject. I will say one more thing about Nishiyama, which is that he has the most vicious-looking front kick I've ever seen. I've tried to emulate his style on this one but he's basically got the patent on it. Overall, still a great classic on the subject of karate that has rarely if ever been exceeded.	2000-10-06
2257970:US	45193257	R2FUSPMJLQLLA9	0897500229	620329229	Knife Self-Defense for Combat (Special Forces/Ranger-Udt/Seal Hand-To-Hand Combat/Special Weapons/Special Tactics Series)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Good as far as it goes	This book is good as an explanation of traditional hwa rang do techniques against knife attack. The techniques emphasize spinning, locking, and throwing type methods, which is fine as far as it goes, in a situation where the attacker commits himself to one main attack. <br />However, a skilled adversary with a knife will be more likely to &quot;stalk&quot; you and wait for an opening. In that case you need to have finely honed blocking, parrying, trapping, and similar defensive skills, and this takes very fast reflexes. <br />Especially more advanced martial artists need to practice this sort of attack and defense situation, where the opponent tries multiple attacks and feints while you defend. Sometimes the best defense against a knife is just a low side-thrust kick to the knee after the attacker has thrust and is starting to withdraw, but again, this requires exceptional countering abilities.<br />Basically, no matter how skilled you are, you are forced into a defensive stance of waiting for an opening defending bare-handed agaist a knife. This means you need to have lightning quick reflexes and the ability to instantly follow up a succssful block, parry, trap, or dodge with an effective punch, strike or kick or combination. Once you have developed this sort of ability, at that point if you want to incorporate techniques such as these, that's okay.	2000-10-05
2259568:US	45193257	R9OFHGOE0RWW4	034536662X	486542193	Jacob the Baker: Gentle Wisdom For a Complicated World	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Delightful  little book	I am a sucker for pithy, wise-sounding little books like this, because despite the great philosopher Whitehead's statement, &quot;Seek simplicity but mistrust it,&quot; I continue to believe that profound philosophical ideas need not necessarily be complex or difficult to understand by those not philosophically trained.<br />This short work falls into an interesting category of philosophy books, as it is really a philosophy of life worked out by means of practical examples through the story of Jacob. Jacob is a humble but wise baker whose profound insights and timeless wisdom about life, spirituality, and other subjects confound and amaze the people of his small town. Altogether a well-done little book that is wise beyond its pretentions.	2000-10-04
2260196:US	45193257	R1LPM67VFPW2CX	0449208133	868223008	Lucifer's Hammer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The world ends with a bang, and not a whisper, after all	For some reason, I (as well as other sci-fi fans) have an affinity for end-of-the-world type sci-fi stories, after all, what could be more dramatic than the whole world coming to an end? The subject also seems to draw some of the field's best writers, perhaps because what could give you more power as a writer than creating universal conflagration, and blowing up the earth itself?<br />This theme has been the subject of movies from the 50's through the 70's as well as things like Twilight Zone and Outer Limits episodes, not to mention the two recent Hollywood blockbusters with the asteroid strikes.<br />When I was a kid, I read Phillip Wylie's When World's Collide, which was made into a classic 50's movie, and After World's Collide, both great examples of the genre. Then there were the nuclear holocaust-type novels,  exemplied by Neville Shute's On the Beach and Stephen Minot's Chill of Dusk. Finally, there are the ones where deadly viruses or other microbes get out of control, such as in Stanislaw Lem's Memoirs Found in a Bathtub and George R. Stewart's Earth Abides, Michael Crichton's The Andromeda Strain, and so on. So if you enjoyed Lucifer's Hammer, you might also enjoy these books too.<br />Lucifer's Hammer is probably  the greatest example of this important category of sci-fi tale. So if you have an interest in this sort of story, this is no better place to start than with this book.	2000-10-04
2260584:US	45193257	RJ9GYGUO7TBPF	0870111906	361095436	Karate-Do Kyohan: The Master Text	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Classic work by the master	This book is a must have for Shotokan as well as other stylists. The photos are excellent and the presentation of the forms is equally good. An important feature is the footwork diagrams, missing in many otherwise good kata books. The book is mostly katas, and up till this time it was the only book documenting the more advanced forms. To my knowledge, it is still the only book that has the Ten No Kata Omote form. There are 19 forms in all. Senior Egami does a great job with the form demonstrations.<br />There are about 30 forms in all in the Shotokan style. I only hope that someone does a book someday with all of them. Nakayama has done some further books with 2 or 3 of the advanced forms per book, but I'd like to see them all under one cover some day. However, someone who masters the 19 forms in this book should have considerable skill and power.	2000-10-03
2261101:US	45193257	R3S7VIHCDHIFQ7	0679745068	438605241	Et Tu, Babe	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not my thing really, but still interesting	I sort of enjoyed this book. It is really a disjointed series of vignettes, basically a kind of post-modern stream of consciousness style of writing. The book has it's funny parts, the main one being the vial of Lincoln's morning breath, which is probably the funniest section in the book.<br />Another reviewer here said that Leyner is funnier than Chris Moore. Well, there is no way Leyner is funnier, but he is certainly stranger than Moore, and that is saying something. I would go so far as to say he is even unique in his own way, and I give him points for being able to come up with such a sustained montage of weird topics to write about.<br />I would probably think more of Leyner as a writer if it weren't for the fact that I could do a pretty good facsimile of this sort of writing myself, except that this was 30 years ago before anyone had heard of Leyner.<br />Anyway, this book does have its moments. Entertaining in it own wacked out sort of way.	2000-10-03
2264605:US	45193257	R3UTQ4HV4QBOBK	0486219623	1396600	Last and First Men and Star Maker : Two Science Fiction Novels	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Strange but cosmic vision	If you can get past Stapledon's somewhat stilted prose (he was, after all, an Oxford educated philosophy student, so I cut him some slack here), there was probably no other sci-fi author who could convey such a sense of the vastness of the universe and of man's tiny little speck-like piece of it. For in Star-Maker, the cosmos is brimming with literally thousands of sentient civilizations, and humankind is only one insignificant cultural outpost in the midst of an infinitely bigger universe. I sort of liked this idea, because I would hate to think that humans, with all their shortcomings, are the only sentient species out there, not that the other species described in this book don't have their problems either. But I would like to think that there are other possiblities such as those that Stapledon describes in this novel, since it seems unlikely to me that the human race will evolve physically and and socially much further than its current state.	2000-09-30
2264725:US	45193257	R2LNMG3XI2XL0P	0915368560	548440362	The Rediscovery of Man: The Complete Short Science Fiction of Cordwainer Smith	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A unique voice	Cordwainer Smith was actually the pseudonym for Dr. Phillip Linebarger, who was a professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University, if I remember right, but anyway, at one of the Ivy League colleges. He was a sometime advisor to the government and wrote a classic book on psychological warfare back in the 40's that I read was still in use by the CIA in the 60's. Perhaps it was this background that gives Smith's stories about the future such a darkly pessimistic tone. As someone observed here in another review, such a view was in stark contrast to the other authors of the Golden Age of Science Fiction (circa 1930 to 1960), during which it was still believed that science would solve all of society's ills. Wherever it came from, Smith's vision is certainly different, his writing style is like no other sci-fi author's, and even his titles are different--giving them names like &quot;The Game of Rat and Dragon, &quot;The Ballad of Lost C'Mell,&quot; and the sinister sounding (for a psychological warfare prof) &quot;The Burning of the Brain.&quot; If you've never encountered Smith's stories until now, you are in for a rare experience, because Smith is a great storyteller with a uniquely dark and disturbing vision of the future.	2000-09-30
2265023:US	45193257	R1O3TEQRTS2V6Q	0345329457	427020672	At the Mountains of Madness: And Other Tales of Terror	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good but twisted	Lovecraft isn't really my sort of thing, but I thought I should at least read one of two of his stories to get some idea of his work. I happened to find this book cheap and read the title story and some of the short stories. At the Mountains of Madness seems to be considered his best. I have to admit, I enjoyed it more than I would have thought, as Lovecraft is a talented but twisted storyteller in a bizarre sort of way. Also, hearing about all these obscure gods with Sumerian and Babylonian sounding names (I guess they do come from their mythology) and finding about what they are about is sort of interesting, actually. Anyway, Lovecraft is a certainly a master of the macabre and the bizarre who can give you a pretty good scare for your money.	2000-09-30
2265413:US	45193257	R2QEXFXMVTH3EK	0070480176	778370224	How to Make Money in Stocks: A Winning System in Good Times or Bad	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good place to start	This book and one of Peter Lynch's books are a good place to start your investing education. O'Neil is a major exponent of the momentum school of investing, although his famous acronym, CANSLIM, which stands for the different components of his investing model, also incorporates much fundamental information.<br />O'Neil is famous for founding the IBD, Investor's Business Daily, and for correctly predicting a major market turnaround after a long period of decline, back in the 70's, if I remember right. His criterion for cutting one's losses after an 8% percent decline by 50% for your holdings, and by the remaining 50% after the stock's decline reaches 15%, would have saved me a lot of money in retrospect had I always followed it. However, in today's more volatile markets, had I sold stocks like Intel using this method, I would have missed out on the next run up, so I would say this decision criterion would apply to more value-oriented types of stocks, or to someone who is actively day-trading and needs to minimize short-term losses.	2000-09-29
2265566:US	45193257	R2Y03ST523GCY8	1558505296	236695143	Investment Biker: Around the World With Jim Rogers	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Very Interesting	Jim Rogers is well-known to viewers of CNN and for having been, with Geroge Soros, the manager of the Quantum Fund for many years, the top performing mutual fund of its time, turning out a 34% annualized return for many years. I've read Soros's books also, and he has high praise for Rogers, saying he was a great idea man.<br />I have found certain aspects of Rogers' investing style interesting.  He has a knack for detecting social trends in advance of the influence this would have on the stock. He did this by subscribing to and reading something like 90 mass-market magazines and trade publications and looking for trends. For example, years ago, when the &quot;natural look&quot; was sweeping the country and women were shunning make-up, he saw this and shorted Avon Cosmetics. The stock was trading around 80 or 90 at the time and was still considered a solid company. He covered his short two years later when the stock was below 10 bucks. Not too bad.<br />Rogers' travelogue isn't a typical traver-writer's story, since he is so focused on the economics of the different countries, but I didn't mind that at all as I am an international investor myself, and wanted to hear his observations on these countries.<br />For example, he finds Botswana, north of South Africa, a good bet for investors since it is equally as resource and mineral rich as South Africa, but without all the racial and tribal problems it and other African countries has. The country is mostly one tribe but the other two main minority tribes get along well so the country lacks the tribal tensions that have led to all out civil wars in other regions of the continent. Furthermore, he notes that both political parties are solidly capitalistic and want a prosperous stock market.<br />This is just one example of the interesting observations Rogers makes as he travels around the world on his motorcycle. There are many more of these in the book, so I would recommend this book to anybody with an interest in international investing. The compelling reason for this approach is that the US market is acting so toppy and PE's are at historical highs. However, if you are knowledgeable about other markets in the world, it is possible to find investment opportunities elsewhere in countries whose markets are not so over-valued.tional investing. The compelling reason for this approach is that the US market is acting so toppy and PE's are at historical highs. However, if you are knowledgeable about other markets in the world, it is possible to find investment opportunities elsewhere in countries whose markets are not so over-valued.	2000-09-29
2265629:US	45193257	R9P5WC6ZTGMAN	1560986565	529370425	Agnes Chase's First Book of Grasses: The Structure of Grasses Explained for Beginners	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Outstanding	Although my botanical interests lie mainly in mycology and dendrology, I was truly delighted to find this little book. It is simply the best way to get a conceptual understanding of the structure of grasses and the main genera in a way that will definitely aid your ability to identify them in the field using more traditional taxonomic keys. Normally, such keys lead you from the specific characters to the taxon/concept itself, but with this book, you learn the more powerful concepts that unify and differentiate the various genera. This was a tremendous aid to me in my field identification of this important group, because after reading this book several times, I basically knew what was going on, instead of just &quot;cookbooking&quot; it using the typical botanical key.<br />I have sort of an amusing story associated with this book. By the time I had memorized this book I could basically identify any grass at least to the genus level by sight, and then I could consult a more detailed taxonomic key from there for the species. I was once sitting around a fire with my fellow mycologists, who were somewhat amused I had somehow learned how to identify the grasses, which, even for a botanist, are an esoteric group. So when they asked what I was doing, I said that once you understood the grasses, even an apparently desolate, boring, sand lot down the block can provide hours of fun. Mycologists are used to spending hours tramping through the woods in search of interesting mushrooms, so they found this quite funny and everybody laughed at the thought.<br />Anway, Agnes Chase loved the grasses and this book is filled with that enthusiasm in this clear and concise book, helping to make one of the most difficult areas of plant identification easier to deal with.	2000-09-29
2265639:US	45193257	RLN0L9G7SUUFB	0393313034	722429913	Haven in a Heartless World (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	24	33	N	N	Compelling social commentary	Compelling social commentary, and brilliantly written, perhaps not surprising since Lasch was not a social scientist, but rather a professor of English Literature, at Columbia if I recall right, but in any case, at one of the Ivy League colleges. Lasch became interested in social trends, and ended up writing this fine book on the decline and destruction of the family in American life. Although the book is 20 years old at this point, Lasch's ideas are if anything more relevant now than they were back in the 70's.	2000-09-29
2265899:US	45193257	R2G001ZKP0FIIU	048627263X	467344666	Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Classic romance and satire	Besides being a &quot;Romance&quot; about higher and lower dimensions, and the ingenious way in which Abbott uses geometry to show us the limitations imposed by our own limited world view, this is also a very pointed social satire about Victorian England.<br />For example, in the main character's flatlander universe of two dimensions, one's intellect and social class are determined by the number of sides you have as a polygon. If I recall correctly (it being 35 years since I read it--someone please correct me if I err in the details) workers have three sides and are triangles, the middle class consists of squares, and the professionals and the nobility have five sides or more. But basically the principle is, the more sides you have, the higher up the social scale you are.<br />Therefore, the king of this odd dimension has so many sides he is basically a circle. Then there are the women, who are virtually straight lines, pointed at each end, which basically means they have no intelligence at all! Furthermore, if a woman bumps into a &quot;higher&quot; polygon she will puncture their side and instantly kill them. This means women are both the dumbest and most dangerous creatures in this strange dimension. If a woman is coming at you straight on, she is essentially invisible, and you can bump into her without knowing she is even there and accidently kill yourself. Hence, there is a law requiring women, when they are out and about, to make a lot of noise so that other polygons will be able to avoid impaling themselves.<br />Anyway, as you can see, there is a lot of vicious social satire in this short work. The author's satirical portrayal of social class issues and especially of women is even more prescient in view of social developments over the next 100 years, at least in the west.	2000-09-29
2265944:US	45193257	R2PE0TG1VX1P85	0140265716	498064526	Memoirs of an Ex-Prom Queen	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Early frank memoir	This is not my usual type of book, but I when I picked it up at random in a book store 20 years ago, the author's frank style sort of grabbed me, and I ended up reading the whole thing.<br />Shulman's memoir pre-dates many of the later works of this type since she grew up in the 40's and 50's, which basically just goes to show you that none of this is very new from the standpoint of women's consciousness. I was a grad student in the 70's and 80's, and by then we were solidly post-free love, post-sexual liberation, and post 60's sexuality in general. This author's discussion of these issues pre-dates this by at least 20 years, so the book is interesting if only for that.	2000-09-29
2266044:US	45193257	R1S43WZ6CJNAK0	055338063X	734923060	From Bauhaus to Our House	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Not his best	This is not Wolfe's best as it is basically an extended rant against the influence of Bauhaus architecture, which, while somewhat entertaining, doesn't really explain much. For a better analysis of what Harvard art historian Sigfried Giedion called &quot;the hanging curtain of glass,&quot; try his outstanding book, Space, Time and Architecture, which does a much better job of tracing and conceptualizing the evolution of 20th century architecture.	2000-09-29
2266066:US	45193257	RPL8D4B9KJ0XM	083713742X	20761420	Feast of Unreason	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The best introduction	This is a review for Hector Hawton's Philospohy for Pleasure, which I could not find doing a search on Amazon, rather than The Feast of Unreason, so that's why I'm writing this here instead. I hope Amazon will include this review in this section, because I have to say what a wonderful little book this is. I've read dozen's of introductory books on philosophy and this book, by an amateur philosopher who pursued it as a hobby rather than a professional philosopher, is quite simply the best primer ever written in the area. Hawton's book is clear, concise and even pithy. He cuts through all the jargon and the tangle of philosophical schools and ideas to distill what is really important about them. An important facet of his presentation is how each idea improved over previous thinking, and then was taken up and influenced and was modified by later philosophers. The book is only a couple of hundred pages long, but after reading this you will be prepared to take on more serious readings on the subject.	2000-09-29
2266127:US	45193257	R3EXKWZSBRWSUL	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great classic	Many people have already written fine general reviews here of this novel, so I will limit myself to a few specific comments and observations. In reading Dune, I recalled an interesting much earlier short story by Herbert that shows his interest in human nature and political intrigue.  Written in the 50's, a full ten years before Dune, it shows his fascination with these themes can be traced at least back till then. Entitled &quot;Cease Fire!,&quot; it is about a time in the future when weapons based on conventional high explosives become obsolete because they can now be detonated remotely by a revolutionary new invention. This basically throws warfare back into the Middle Ages. At the very end of the book, someone hands the main character an old book, saying that this is what warfare will be based on from now on. He looks at the book, and it is Machiavelli's &quot;The Prince.&quot;<br />I found this sort of interesting given the important place psychological warfare, political intrigue, and human psychology in general occupy in Dune. Obviously Herbert had been thinking about these issues for some time before writing the book, in addition to the novel's important ecological themes.	2000-09-29
2266205:US	45193257	R27Y59O1N8TEOJ	0834801221	206388474	Shantung Black Tiger: A Shaolin Fighting Art of North China	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Interesting form	This book presents an interesting form from a style not seen much in the U.S. or outside of China. Good photo sequences and excellent descriptive text accompanying the photos help explain each move. The book concludes with a section showing the practical self-defense application of some of the sequences from the form. A good book and an interesting addition to your martial arts library.<br /><br />I have studied Hung Gar five animals kung fu, which includes the tiger as well as other animals, as well as Indonesian Pentjak Silat, which was influenced by Chinese styles like the tiger, praying mantis, and eagle claw kung fu, but I haven't had the opportunity to study tiger kung fu in pure form, as in this book. Some day I hope to have the opportunity to study one of the great styles of tiger kung fu too.<br /><br />If you are interested in more information on tiger style kung fu, I can recommend the five videos on the black tiger style by Tak Wah Eng, a famous kung fu instructor in New York City. The set includes both empty hand and weapons forms, including two-man three-sectional staff routines, which I thought was very interesting, since I have studied the staff myself.	2000-09-29
2266206:US	45193257	R3DIW0D8AT3GH0	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Probably their best	I think this is the best collaboration from this outstanding author team, and probably one of their best books individually too. It is truly an epic story of an alien contact and of what will happen to human civilization 1000 years in the future.<br />The alien culture of the Moties is superbly conceived, described, and realized, and is reminiscent of Heinlein's ability to create enagaging and believable alien cultures and psychologies. This is one of the great alien contact stories, which has always been one of sci-fi fans' favorites and mine too in the genre.	2000-09-29
2266277:US	45193257	RXYZSVMIGECAX	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Witty and funny	Witty and hilarious account about a young bond trader's rise, along the way giving an insider's account of many of the important financial events of its time, such as the Savings and Loan crisis, Michael Milken and the junk bond crisis, and so on. Great history of Salomen Bros. and John Gutfreund's influence. One of the funniest and most readable books about the financial markets ever written.	2000-09-29
2266308:US	45193257	RVI61XZSWFVWP	0465031838	663845694	100 Yrs Of Philosophy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best history	I've read numerous overview-type books on 20th century philosophy and this is the best history on the subject ever written. Passmore won Firsts in both English Literature and Philosophy when he was a student, an extraordinary feat, and an early indication of his talent in creating a scholarly history such as this.<br />The book focuses mainly on epistemology and metaphysics, with excellent sections on many modern movements such Wittgenstein and ordinary language philosophy, Logical Positivism and the philosophy of science, the contribution of modern logicians such as Quine and Tarski, Russel and Moore's influence, Whitehead and critical naturalism, and many other important topics.	2000-09-29
2267797:US	45193257	R18VVR7VX71GB6	0716715678	563098346	Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processing of Visual Information	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Revolutionary thinker	Although dead at the young age of 36 from leukemia, Marr's computational and mathematical approach to vision revolutionized the entire area of vision research, after which it was never the same. There are strong hints of this approach in the earlier work of Julesz and Gibson, but Marr's work takes the whole field a quantum leap further, giving it a rigorousness and mathematical elegance never before seen.<br />For example, to mention just a few of his important ideas, Marr's demonstrations that retinal receptive field geometry could be derived by Fourier transformation of spatial frequency sensitivity data, that edges and contours could be detected by finding zero crossings in the light gradient by taking the Laplacian or second directional derivative, that excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields could be constructed from &quot;DOG&quot; functions (the difference of two Gaussians), and that the visual system used a two-dimensional convolution integral with a Gaussian prefilter as an operator for bandwidth optimation on the retinal light distribution, were more powerful than anything that had been seen up to that time.<br />It was as if vision research suddenly acquired its own Principia Mathematica, or perhaps General Relativity Theory, in terms of the new explanatory power Marr's theories provided. Truly an extraordinary book from an extraordinary thinker in the area of perception, vision, and the brain.	2000-09-28
2269690:US	45193257	R11B1HBPCPQECC	0804800049	480944277	Aikido and the Dynamic Sphere: An Illustrated Introduction	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Best guide, great illustrations	This book would get five stars if only for the terrific illustrations. I've looked at a lot of martial arts books over the years, being an instructor myself, and this one is a stand-out for the clear and easy to understand illustrations. The main projections and their applications are shown, along with their variations. This is one book where the line drawings are easier to follow and understand than a photo sequence would be. The illustrator (I think that was O. Ratti) is to be commended for the great job he did on this.<br />The only other book I've seen like this was a little book published 30 years ago, &quot;Self-Defense Simplified in Pictures,&quot; by Donald Hepler. This book is now long out of print but had similarly effective line drawings.	2000-09-26
2270790:US	45193257	R1W19ODWEBO96H	0345336550	574038835	The End of Eternity	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Little-known Asimov classic	This short book is one of Asimov's minor masterpieces and, inexplicably, one of the least well-known of his sci-fi novels. Asimov wrote about 18 sci-fi novels, and for some reason this little book gets overlooked, probably because of the success of his Robot series, Daneel and Elijah series, and of course his epic Foundation series. However, if you want a fine Asimov read that stands on its own with an engaging plot about time travel and what you could do with that, in addition to some nice characterization, give this little gem a try.	2000-09-25
2270913:US	45193257	R307TG6WT50T4G	0380728133	61850312	Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Who ever heard of a funny vampire?	It would have been hard for me to imagine a funny story about vampires until I read this book, after all, vampires are not exactly known for their levity or for being the world's most notable party-animals. This book breaks with tradition and pokes fun at the entire genre of &quot;serious&quot; vampire books. They say an art form is through when it starts satirizing itself. If so, the vampire novel is going out with style in this very funny satire on the subject.	2000-09-25
2271344:US	45193257	R1DGGZDMHOEIN3	0380816547	416150558	Island of the Sequined Love Nun	Books	5	2	3	N	N	His wackiest yet	Moore has done it again with another darkly satirical, rollicking romp through a remote region of the South Pacific islands. The story features cargo cults, an elderly cannibal, a cross-dressing Micronesian outrigger navigator, a talking fruit bat, a sociopathic surgical nurse/stripper with a genius IQ, mysterious Japanese ninja guards, a mispel (you'll find out) and a sinister plot that is uncovered by the loser anti-hero, Tucker Case (who does redeem himself eventually). Another winner by Moore and his wackiest novel yet.	2000-09-25
2273930:US	45193257	R2U1QMC40L61KT	0674830407	542350507	Space, Time and Architecture: The Growth of a New Tradition, 5th Revised and Enlarged Edition	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent history	I enjoyed this book for the author's insights into how 20th century architecture, starting from certain antecedents in the 19th century, such as the early iron-reinforced concrete structures of William LeBaron Jenny, progressed through Louis Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, the Bauhaus school, and so on, up to the style which he calls \\"the hanging curtain of glass.\\"<br />Giedion shows how this spectacular 20th-century building originated around the turn of the last century and how it's modern variations represent a triumpth of this type of design.<br />The basic principle, as exemplified early on in the Carson, Pirie, Scott, and Co. building in Chicago, is that as stuctural members receeded from the outlying masonry walls into the interior skeleton of the building, this allows the architect to open up the facade with windows, skylights, and other penetrating elements in order to let the maximum amount of air and light into the building. Eventually no real supporting structural members need reside on the outside of the building, and the aesthetic result is the \\"hanging curtain of glass\\" effect... Whatever one thinks of this type of  building, it has become a major landmark of 20th-century architectural design in cities all over the world.<br />Giedion's treatment of Robert Maillart's graceful, parabolic spanning bridge designs in the Swiss Alps and some other places,  such as the Tavanasa Bridge in the U.S., which he specifically discusses as one of Maillart's most important achievements, is also very interesting.<br />Overall, Giedion's book is a fine treatment of an important and difficult period in the history of architecture, and is one of the most important books on architecture to be written in recent decades.	2000-09-23
2274135:US	45193257	R2KXI9WS9QJEEE	0345342445	546810848	Citizen of the Galaxy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Next to &quot;Tunnel,&quot; my favorite of the juveniles	Next to Tunnel in the Sky, this is probably my favorite among his &quot;juveniles.&quot; This is basically a Heinleinian, Sci-Fi version of the rags to riches tale, as you watch Thorby's rise from a poor beggar boy to one of the richest and most powerful men on earth. A good Heinlein tale and a great way to kill a Sat. afternoon.	2000-09-22
2274171:US	45193257	R2EK3PGP8JO843	0898151694	554388595	Mushrooms Demystified	Books	4	60	63	N	N	Best field guide	This is probably the best field guide ever done on the subject. Although I was a neurobiology student in grad school, I had an interest in mycology and took every mycology, lichenology, and non-vascular plant course offered at San Francisco State by the great mycologist, Dr. Harry Thiers, so I've had instruction in the subject by the best. And although the academic specialists have done better books on the individual genera, this is still the best overall &quot;nature guide&quot; type book. Just the photographs themselves are worth the price of the book, because they're gorgeous. There is also plenty of information on other topics besides the description and identification material, such as how fungi reproduce, their distribution and ecology, edibility and toxicology, and many other interesting subjects.<br />The one criticism I've heard about the book from the professional mycologists is that Arora did not do microscopic analysis on his specimens so as to actually prove what species it is. If you approach the book from the standpoint of this being the best book on the art and science of mushroom identification based on macroscopically observable features, you will be fine. It is Arora's expertise in this aspect of mycology and the detailed and clear descriptions of the species for identification purposes that is exceptional about this guide.	2000-09-22
2274809:US	45193257	R1OJU12XQNCDGK	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Absorbing natural history	Compelling and fascinating book on island biogeography and biogeography in general. Another major theme is the decline in biodiversity on our planet. Good discussion on evolution as it relates to this subject, and the coverage on E.O. Wilson's ideas, who wrote the classic work in the area, is also excellent. Quammen visited many of the areas he writes about, for example, Madagascar, where he documents the tragic decline and loss of lemur and prosimian species through the erosion and destruction of the rainforest, and the effects of overpopulation. As I read this chapter I recalled another poignant observation about the beleaguered island--that space shuttle astronauts could actually see the red soil of Madagascar bleeding into the Indian Ocean from orbit--an appropos if somewhat morbid image for the greater ecological hemorrhaging of our own planet.	2000-09-22
2276758:US	45193257	R2J1D3ZQY72I7M	0915145308	517777820	Science and Subjectivity	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Cogent and concise	I've read dozens of works on the philosophy of science by all the major philosophers and scientists who have written on the subject and Scheffler's short work is the most concise, pithy, and cogent work I've seen. I underlined just about every other sentence, because he comes up with these great, pithy little statements that condense what other authors would take a whole paragraph to say. Super little book on the subject and a great way to get yourself started in this big and important area.	2000-09-20
2277518:US	45193257	R9EEUTSFWTI2X	0226672883	193800143	Personal Knowledge: Towards a Post-Critical Philosophy	Books	4	6	20	N	N	Good as far as it goes	I don't think much of personological/subjective explanations of science, such as Kuhn's and Polanyi's, but I think their views should be heard and considered nevertheless. Western writers seem to have an odd fascination with this sort of approach, for reasons that are understandable historically but that I believe are still untenable, most of which is related to the west's obsession with the individual ego and individual consciousness and with the phenomenological and existential approaches to reality that grew out of that.<br />While I respect Polanyi as a scientist (he was a noted physical chemist), unfortunately I think he's sort of gone off the deep end in terms of his subjectivistic interpretation of scientific method and of the work of the scientist, which amounts to an extreme form of neo-Kantianism. <br />The first problem I have with this is that by making the human mind the final arbiter of all knowledge and sense data, a systematic ghost of an illusion pervades all Kantian threories, because there is no strong connection to external reality anymore. While I would agree with Polyani in regard to Kant's basic thesis, that the mind is actively involved in organizing the data of the senses, and that ideas about the external world could not exist unless there were corresponding mental capabilities and constucts to match, this idea, although fine for its day, really doesn't buy you much anymore in my opinion. This is for two reasons, which is the problem of illusionism which I just mentioned, and the second is the approach that has now emerged from the last 75 years of work in neurobiology and the brain sciences, of which these writers seem blissfully unaware.<br />Although we still have a lot to learn, the picture that has emerged so far is both fascinating and impressive. For example, there are 60 trillion cells in a human brain organized into 14,000 major and minor brain centers, and they are all networked together. Each individual neuron has between 3,000 and 100,000 connections with other neurons, producing a neural web of unbelievable complexity. Most sensory neurons are devoted to using feature-detecting algorithms that require advanced calculus to understand, as David Marr has shown, such as the DOG (difference of two Gaussians) function pre-filter for optimization of spatial frequency versus bandwidth that the retina scans by means of a two-dimentional convolution integral to analyze the initial light distribution, and which is followed up with a Laplacian of the Gaussian or second directional derivative for detecting line segments, borders, and other visual \\"primitives.\\" <br />At least at the level of basic sensory processing of visual images, the level of mathematical sophistication as well as just brute computational power and that is being devoted to the process is beyond anything we could have imagined. There is very little reason anymore to insist on its fundamental subjectivity in the Kantian sense. It is true that there are visual illusions at the higher levels of sensory perception, but those are now regarded as special cases, and they are being shown to be explainable in terms of mathematical visual field-distortion theories of these mechanisms that can be quantified just like the basic sensory processes.<br />Another reason neo-Kantian theories don't buy you much is to consider the work of cognitive psychologists and psychometricians like J.P. Guilford. Guilford has evidence for 120 different, discrete mental abilities. We have only just started to find out how all these areas and abilities actually work, but the resulting theories will far surpass in detail and complexity the simplistic philosophical generalizations of previous centuries about how knowledge is acquired and ideas are formed. <br />The bottom line at this point is that classical ideas like Kant's really aren't wrong, but they are like what classical Newtonian physics was after Einstein, when it became a piece of a much more profound, bigger picture. And the rest of that picture will be filled in by work in neurobiology and cognitive psychology, not by further vague philosophical speculation, which can only propose the most general explanations about these epistemological questions, rather than demostrate in detail how the mind and the brain actually perceive and extract information from reality and then use the information from sense data to generate ideas about the real world.	2000-09-20
2277717:US	45193257	R1W7REQFTTQQE5	0670882178	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A very good book, but...	I enjoyed this book very much; there is no doubt Kurzweil is an engaging,  convincing, and even daring author with an impressive track record for his  predictions. However, I do have a couple of issues with one of his  predictions.<br />Kurzweil predicts that machine intelligences will exceed  humans by the year 2020. I have two issues with this. Although Kurzweil  does discuss the complexity of the brain, I believe he has oversimplified  the problem. By this time Kurzweil maintains that most brain areas will  have been scanned and reverse-engineered.<br />Perhaps... but as I said, he  has underestimated the complexity of the problem. For example, the human  brain has about 15,000 major and minor brain centers, and after 100 years  of research, not a single central neural code for a single brain center has  ever been deciphered. So if Kurzweil's prediction relies on our figuring  out the actual 'wetware,' good luck. Of course, machine intelligence of  respectable power may become possible without our understanding how the  brain does it, but in my opinion, these machine intelligences will not have  the generality of their human counterparts, although they may be able to  beat humans in certain specialist areas (such as chess and spectrology).<br />I have another issue. Let's consider the difference between a human  brain and a modern CPU in terms of the number of computing elements.  Current microchips only have a few million transisters. A human brain has  over 60 trillion neurons. Even if we start packing that many transistors on  a chip, that's only part of the problem. Each neuron has between 10,000 and  100,000 different connections with other neurons (the figure Kurzweil  quotes is too low). The total number of connections is therefore 60  trillion taken 10,000 to 100,000 at a time. As you may know, this becomes a  very large number, being a &quot;combinatorial explosion&quot;-type  problem. This means that the total number of connections in a human brain  is probably greater than the number of atoms in the known universe. Or to  put it another way, you could add up all the computer chips on earth and  they probably wouldn't equal one human brain in terms of the total synaptic  connectivity. This doesn't mean it won't happen, but this gives you some  idea of the complexity of the organ Kurzweil is predicting a machine will  soon exceed.<br />To give another analogy, a human liver can catalyze about  2000 different biochemical reactions. The most sophisticated chemical  factory in the world can't do even a small fraction of that. A human brain  is orders of magnitude more complex, just in terms of the 'hardware.' This  means that current computers will have to be thousands, perhaps, millions  of times, more complex to emulate a human on this level. And we haven't  even gotten to the issue of the 'software' or 'wetware,' of which, as I  said, hardly anything is known. Perhaps machine intelligence will do it  another way without all the hardware-level complexity a human brain has.  Certainly they are faster than we are, by many orders of magnitude, but  speed is not the same as power. We shall see...s probably greater than the number of atoms in the known universe. Or to  put it another way, you could add up all the computer chips on earth and  they probably wouldn't equal one human brain in terms of the total synaptic  connectivity. This doesn't mean it won't happen, but this gives you some  idea of the complexity of the organ Kurzweil is predicting a machine will  soon exceed. <br />To give another analogy, a human liver can catalyze about  2000 different biochemical reactions. The most sophisticated chemical  factory in the world can't do even a small fraction of that. A human brain  is orders of magnitude more complex, just in terms of the 'hardware.' This  means that current computers will have to be thousands, perhaps, millions  of times, more complex to emulate a human on this level. And we haven't  even gotten to the issue of the 'software' or 'wetware,' of which, as I  said, hardly anything is known. Perhaps machine intelligence will do it  another way without all the hardware-level complexity a human brain has.  Certainly they are faster than we are, by many orders of magnitude, but  speed is not the same as power. We shall see...	2000-09-19
2281220:US	45193257	R1MTHY5B1QUDSA	0140443312	230842316	Master and Man and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	14	N	N	Short for Tolsoi, but excellent	For Tolstoi, this qualifies as an &quot;O. Henry surprise-type  ending&quot; since you aren't expecting the wealthy merchant to sacrifice  his own life for that of his lowly serf. This seems especially true since  Tolstoi gives you several examples throughout the story of how the master  undervalues his loyal servant.<br />For example, Tolstoi tells you that he is  underpaid even for a serf. Also, his shrewd master always manages to  manipulate and maneuver the servant into buying his goods from him, instead  of from the store in the village, by making it look like he is doing him a  favor in the process. This way he can overcharge for everything and thereby  takes back what little money he is paying his servant anyway. The servant  is well aware of this but is resigned to the situation.<br />Another  interesting thing is how they get into a life-threatening situation in the  first place. The workaholic merchant decides to press on at night in a  severe blizzard, rather than remain safe in a farmhouse they have happened  on in the snow, because he is impatient to get on to his next deal, and  doesn't want to miss out on a possible opportunity.<br />I thought the  time-obsessed businessman was primarily a late 20th century invention, but  not so. The wealthy landowner and businessman regards even a few lost  moments of time as unacceptable, and so they venture out into the fatal  storm. They get lost in the driving and trackless snow on the way to the  next town.<br />Tolstoi describes this poignantly. At several points, the  master is certain they have come back to where they started and so are just  going in circles, but the snow is coming down so hard that the horse  carriage's tracks have already been covered up, and so he can't be sure. At  that point he realizes the situation is hopeless.<br />Finally, the master  parks the horse and carriage under a tree and they huddle together and try  to survive until morning.  But only the servant survives, his wealthy  master in the end sacrificing his own life for that of his servant, by  deciding to keep his servant warm instead of himself.master in the end sacrificing his own life for that of his servant, by  deciding to keep his servant warm instead of himself.	2000-09-16
2281478:US	45193257	R2OWS8831HVSMQ	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Masterful mood piece	This story takes place in an interesting location, on one of the San Juan  Islands in Washington. I live in California, but I've travelled a lot in  this area, having visited over 20 of the San Juans and Canadian Gulf  islands in the Georgia Strait and the Strait of San Juan de Fuca. This is  one of my favorite places in the world, and when I noticed the book's story  takes place in this fascinating area, I bought it without much thought.<br />I  was rewarded with an extremely well written and poignant story about a  murder mystery that takes place against the backdrop of this beautiful  region of peaceful and wooded islands. Guterson has a fine ability to evoke  what is special about the land and people of this area, beautifully evoking  the moods of this little island paradise. A masterful mood piece, but with  an interesting plot and story thrown in as well. Definitely worth your time  and money.	2000-09-16
2287427:US	45193257	R1DV6R0XNI0JEY	0498069516	310457077	Dynamic self-defense,	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent combos	This book contains an excellent selection of kenpo-related self-defense  techniques. The combinations are practical and easy to learn, and extremely  effective considering their simplicity. Now out of print but a little  classic of the 60's, I come back to this book when I need to remind myself  of some good things to teach my students about how to get simple but  effective hand combos going that are applicable to self-defense situations.	2000-09-10
2289106:US	45193257	R3A2IVXJ2KQIXE	0940871041	448477848	Analysis of Shaolin Chin Na: Instructor's Manual for All Martial Styles (Ymaa Book Series)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Good intro work	This is a good introductory work with a useful organization scheme since  it is done by areas of the body.<br />The methods are simplified, but then it  would probably be impossible to do a book on truly complex Chin Na  techniques. For that you would probably need a video.<br />Nevetheless, I am a  big believer in using the simplest, most effective techniques. The way to  use a book like this, is to learn the most applicable, versatile  techniques, perhaps no more than a couple of dozen or so (unless Chin Na is  a specialty of yours). Remember, in the 1400s even a great Jiu-Jitsu master  might only know a few moves--but he could apply them to an amazing variety  of situations with great speed and effectiveness.<br />Although Chin Na is  one of my specialties, I think the same thing applies to the other  grappling arts, Chin Na and Aikido.	2000-09-09
2289858:US	45193257	R5MOSG2S1THGU	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tremendous	I had to read this story in my 8th grade English class 35 years ago.  Later, the novelette and the book Charlie, based on the movie, came out.  I  read and enjoyed those too, but I will never forget the impression the  original short story had on me. I thought the movie, which starred Cliff  Robertson as Charlie, was pretty decent also with Robertson doing a  commendable job in the lead role.<br /><br />The story is so well known I won't say  much more here, except to  say that this tale of a retarded man's rise to,  and fall from, genius, is one of the most poignant and moving stories of  all time. I only know of one  other like it, Thomas Disch's Camp Concentration, where people are given an  experimental mind drug that multiplies their IQ's several times--greatly  amplifying their intelligence--while the progessively lethal side effects of the drug are killing their bodies at the same time, an interesting concept. If  you liked Flowers for Algernon, you might also like Disch's novel. One word  of warning--keep a dictionary ready for the end of the book. You'll need  it.<br /><br />Flowers for Algernon would be my tie pick for the greatest Sci-Fi  short story of all time, the other one being Isaac Asimov's Nightfall.	2000-09-08
2290004:US	45193257	RPE384EP78N54	0316923354	55662545	Beautiful Swimmers: Watermen, Crabs and the Chesapeake Bay	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Great little-known classic	If you look at all the other reviews here, you'll notice that almost everyone raves about this book. And for good reason. I think Warner's book is one of the great although little known classics of nature writing. Despite Warner's winning the Pulitzer for it, it still doesn't seem to be that well known. Perhaps that has to do with the specific focus of the book, but there are few nature books that can match Warner's little classic for their informative as well as engaging and entertaining observations of nature. And he did this by writing about the eastern blue crab rather than something \\"sexier\\" or more sympathetic such as dolphins, whales, or some endangered bird.<br /><br />In fact, I would say it is one of the 20th century's greatest works of popular science and nature writing. In this distinguished group of books (ranging from the natural sciences to the social sciences) one would have to include such classics as Rachel Carson's The Silent Spring, Paul de Kruif's Microbe Hunters, Desmond Morris's The Naked Ape, Lincoln Barnett's The Universe and Dr. Einstein, Freud's The Psychopathology of Everyday  Life, Donald Culross Peattie's A Diary for Moderns, Lancelot Hogben's Mathematics for the Millions, Carl Zimmer's Parasite Rex, Martin Gardner's Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science, Tracy Kidder's The Soul of a New  Machine, and so on. But I think Warner's book is the most readable and enjoyable by far of all these books, and yet is the least known.<br /><br />I have a friend who keeps extra copies of the book around to give to other people to read, and that was the way I got introduced to the book. Warner's unpretentious but beautifully written book really captures the spirit and everyday life of the crab fishermen and other watermen of the Chesapeake Bay, one of the world's largest ecosystems just in terms of biomass. Because the coastline of the bay has so many inlets and smaller bays, it's actually several thousand miles long. Besides learning fascinating facts like these about the ecology, Warner's intimate portraits of the lives of the fishermen and watermen make you feel like you're right there with him in the boat as they go about their business.<br /><br />As Warner points out, the bay is so productive of crabs, fish, oysters, and other marine life that just the blue crab catch outweighs that from the other southern states combined. Despite that, the crab and other fisheries were already in decline when Warner wrote this book, and one senses that he knew he was documenting what would soon be a bygone era of lone fisherman and watermen whose lifestyle had changed little in generations.<br /><br />If you've missed this little gem and enjoy good nature writing, you are in for a rare experience, because this is a wonderful book.about the ecology, Warner's intimate portraits of the lives of the fishermen and watermen make you feel like you're right there with him in the boat as they go about their business.    As Warner points out, the bay is so productive of crabs, fish, oysters, and other marine life that just the blue crab catch outweighs that from the other southern states combined. Despite that, the crab and other fisheries were already in decline when Warner wrote this book, and one senses that he knew he was documenting what would soon be a bygone era of lone fisherman and watermen whose lifestyle had changed little in generations.     If you've missed this little gem and enjoy good nature writing, you are in for a rare experience, because this is a wonderful book.	2000-09-08
2290083:US	45193257	RWGM0EB27C5XX	0312853238	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intense !!!	Since there are already over 1100 reviews of this book (probably all  extremely positive) I will only add a few very personal comments here  rather than write a more general review.<br />There is only one word for this  story--intense. From almost page 1 until the end of the book over 200 pages  later you are in 100% total immersion in one of the most suspenseful sci-fi  books ever written. I have been a big reader of many of the major names in  sci-fi, especially Clarke, Asimov, and Heinlein, having read every book  they've written, and rarely did their best stuff draw me in like this one  did. In a class by itself. Don't miss it.	2000-09-08
2290527:US	45193257	R28ZK6AIS5UMM7	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great mood piece	Bradbury's Mars reminds me of something out of a Ronald Reagan fantasy--a world where people sit on porch swings and sip mint juleps after a hard day's work in the fields while the aroma of Grandma's homemade cookies wafts out the window. Considered as a sci-fi classic there really isn't much science here and not much in the way of plot either, but as a collection of mood pieces dripping with nostalgia for a vanished way of life that has somehow been transplanted to Mars, this book is without peer.<br />A personal side note here--I heard Ray Bradbury speak once when they brought him to my junior high school in West Los Angelos 35 years ago. He's a good speaker, actually, and a bit of an eccentric. For example, he admits to being deathly afraid of flying and therefore drives a car everywhere. But he said he would get on a spaceship tomorrow and fly to Mars if he could--something surely more dangerous than a typical plane flight.<br />Anyway, Bradbury himself turned out to be quite a character, and perhaps some of that gets into his stories like this one. The Martian Chronicles shows Bradbury at his best, in a story that ranks as one of the greatest mood pieces in science-fiction and as a story of a people's hopeful, romantic, but failed vision of a new life in a new and unknown world.	2000-09-08
2291212:US	45193257	RZW6YTYOI3MDY	0226458083	89443239	The Structure of Scientific Revolutions	Books	3	12	26	N	N	While interesting, the idea is illogical itself	This book qualifies as a psychohistorical explanation of the nature of scientific progress, because scientists must have already made a cognitive shift to a new mindset before acceptance of the new theory can occur.<br /><br />Other people have commented on similar ideas in the works of Feyerabend, Popper, and Polanyi, so I won't repeat any of that here. What I will say, however, is that this theory, while interesting, makes as little, or as much sense, itself, as the irrational science it purports to explain.<br /><br />So I will make just three points here.<br /><br />First, Kuhn's explanation of the process seems plausible psychologically but in fact is not supported by the psychological literature itself. People change deeply held convictions and ideas not because of an external paradigm shift, but because they become convinced internally that the new idea is superior to the old. Why? Because it explains the facts better, makes more powerful predictions, or is simpler. In other words, it is a fairly logical, reasonable process. This should surprise no-one but Kuhn.<br /><br />Second, Kuhn's theory ignores the innumerable scientific hypotheses, theories, and advances that displaced earlier explanations with very little or no resistance. In fact, most science is incremental and doesn't involve anything dramatic enough to even qualify as a \\"paradigm shift.\\" Hence, even if true for some cases, it doesn't apply to most of what goes on in science.<br /><br />Third, the author misinterprets the initial resistance to Einstein's Theory of Relativity, one of Kuhn's prime examples of a paradigm shift, which he gets wrong. The real problem with the acceptance of this theory is that when it made its debut (especially in the case of Einstein's General Theory), few physicists themselves could even understand the mathematics and physics involved. Once they caught up, they appreciated how elegant and powerful Einstein's conception was. Ignorance should not be confused with scientific irrationalism or just stubborn refusal to accept the truth, which is what Kuhn does.<br /><br />Hence, the book explains very little about the nature of scientific change except in the case of a small minority of the exceptions. As such, it is a good example of the idea that it is a common human flaw (even among people who should be intelligent enough to know better) to be selective about the facts. Unfortunately, he failed to perceive that the idea applied to his own theory.refusal to accept the truth, which is what Kuhn does.    Hence, the book explains very little about the nature of scientific change except in the case of a small minority of the exceptions. As such, it is a good example of the idea that it is a common human flaw (even among people who should be intelligent enough to know better) to be selective about the facts. Unfortunately, he failed to perceive that the idea applied to his own theory.	2000-09-07
2291865:US	45193257	R1KQ16NJSPAAQV	0345430700	770295148	Earthlight	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent short work	This short work about the events leading up to an interplanetary battle is still one of Clarke's best. The battle scene at the very end of the book between The Acheron spaceship and the moon base, which  has developed a strange, molten-metal beam weapon which works in a vacuum, incorporates a very usual idea and I thought was very well done.<br /><br />Clarke's discussion  of the political issues between Earth and her colonies, The Confederation,  that eventually lead to the climactic battle scene, are also well done.  If  you liked this book, you might also try Robert Heinlein's books,  \\"Between Planets,\\" and \\"The Moon is a Harsh Mistress,\\"  which also deal with the issue of the Moon or other planets attempting to  rid themselves of the colonial hegemony of mother Earth.	2000-09-07
2293980:US	45193257	R1NQB2C3DBRUDF	0312152442	363218923	Winterkill: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Outstanding	This book got me back into reading fiction for the first time in years. I  asked a friend who reads a lot of different authors for something, and he  said try this one. So I did, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.<br />I live in  California, but am fond of the Pacific Northwest, and have done a lot of  travelling there. Lesley has a fine ability to evoke what is special about  the land and people of this area. The book has some interesting accounts of  the ways of the tribes in the area, such as the Celilo, a fishing tribe  whose prime fishing grounds are wiped out in one poignant scene by a newly  constructed power dam.<br />The story follows Danny Kachiah, a Nez Perce who  barely ekes out a living working the local Rodeo circuit as a bronco-rider.  He is trying to re-assume the role of father after his divorced wife is  killed in a car accident, leaving him with his estranged son, Jack. But it  is Danny's relationship with his father, Red Shirt, that is central to this  book.<br />Danny is haunted by the memory of his father, a tough, smart old  Nez Perce, and by the remarkable stories his father has related to him over  the years. Throughout the book, it is the  memory of his father and of the  cultural traditions of his tribe that Red Shirt has passed on to him  through his stories and teachings, that guide his actions as he attempts to  get his life back together, and especially, to re-establish his  relationship with his son.	2000-09-05
2294664:US	45193257	R2BVP2FAT77FZQ	0486203948	679320789	Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science (Popular Science)	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Witty, informative, and still relevant	Gardner's work debunking pseudo-science of all kinds is even more relevant  today than it was when it was written nearly 50 years ago.  Although it has  been  30 years since I read it, I can still remember many of the funnier  highlights of the book.<br /><br />For example, some of his revelations on crackpot  scientists are truly hilarious. In his chapter on health and health food  faddists he discusses Gaylord Hauser, who was a famous name in the area  long before people like Adele Davis, Ewel Gibbons, and so on.<br /><br />Gardner  mentions Hauser's famous theory that acidosis of the blood is responsible  for just about all health ills, and recommended fasting to counteract it.  Unfortunately, anyone even slightly familiar with human physiology will  tell you that fasting actually causes acidosis, a little fact apparently  Hauser overlooked. Another great theory killed by a nasty little fact, I  guess.<br /><br />Then there is the chapter, \\"Down with Einstein,\\"  where crackpots par excellence try to prove they are smarter than Einstein.  One guy by the name of Gillette (no relation to the razor concern) says of  Einstein, \\"As a physicist, Einstein is not a bad violinist,\\"  and  insists his \\"Back-screwing Theory of Gravitation\\"  is far  superior to Einstein's. According to Gillette, \\"...gravity is naught  but the kicked-back nut of the back-screwing bolt of gravitation.\\"  As  you can see, Einstein is not the only genius physicist out there with a  good theory or two.<br /><br />The one person Gardner actually seems to like in this  book is Charles Fort, the journalist who himself reported on much of the  pseudo-science of his day. Fort was a diligent and witty writer in the area  who seems to have been fascinated by things like UFOs, the paranormal,  strange phenomena, and bizarre scientific theories,  and who appeared  content to write about and document it all without really believing any of  it himself. The Fortean Society he founded to carry on his work is still  around today.<br /><br />I could go on and on about all the funny things in this  book, but I will stop here and let you discover them for yourself if I've  managed to peak your interest. This is one of the most entertaining books  of science writing ever published, and really qualifies as a classic in its  own right that is still as relevant as the day it was published 50 years  ago.ld go on and on about all the funny things in this  book, but I will stop here and let you discover them for yourself if I've  managed to peak your interest. This is one of the most entertaining books  of science writing ever published, and really qualifies as a classic in its  own right that is still as relevant as the day it was published 50 years  ago.	2000-09-05
2294876:US	45193257	RWMK46V7ORO7X	0451165209	137132039	The Richest Man in Babylon	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Inspired	I have read literally hundreds of books on financial management, the stock  market, investing, and economics in general, and quite simply, this is the  most concise, most entertaining, and most useful book on how to get your  finances together that has ever been published. Written in the form of a  delightful series of parables set in ancient Babylon, the book dispenses  timeless advice on how to get out of debt, how to save, how to budget, how  to do better on the job, and how to invest for the future.<br />An interesting  sideline--George Clason published the first road atlas of the US back in  the 1920's, but it is as the writer of this timeless book of personal  financial advice that he is best remembered today.<br />If you only read one  book on the subject, it should be this one.	2000-09-05
2301215:US	45193257	R1JD4FJHL2F5QA	0345430727	546247864	Tales from the White Hart	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Funny S-F	Clarke's ability to marry humor with good Sci-Fi storytelling has probably never been surpassed in this little collection of short stories. Although it's been almost 30 years since I read this book, I can still vividly recall most of the stories, and the pleasure I had first reading them. The story revolves around a British scientist who frequents a local tavern and who can spin some of the most outlandish yarns of wayward science and technology over a pint that anyone has ever heard. But he's obviously so well-informed and convincing about the science and the details of the stories that nobody quite knows whether the stories are apocryphal or not. But the fun is in the believing. This book is one of the most light-hearted and tongue-in-cheek classics in the annals of science-fiction, and Clarke's deft touch with these funny tales is unsurpassed.	2000-08-31
2301399:US	45193257	R1ITUAK8OJVL8K	0891901466	789821548	The Universe and Dr. Einstein	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Best intro to the subject	Please note that since the title appears as unavailable on Amazon, readers won't be able to tell what book this is for. I only just noticed this when I was looking at some old reviews. But the book is Lincoln Barnett's The Universe and Dr. Einstein. The original review continues below:<br /><br />I've read just about every book on Einstein's theories meant for the  general reader (as well as not-so-general reader) and this is the clearest,  most concise, and best-written book ever done on the subject.<br /><br />I read this  book almost 30 years ago and it's good to see from the other reviews here  that people still know about this terrific book. It's a little masterpiece  of science reportage done during a time (1950) when there were very few  talented writers doing this sort of thing (unlike today), and in which  there wasn't much demand for science writing in general. Lincoln Barnett  was a gifted journalist and he produced a little classic in this book.	2000-08-30
2301550:US	45193257	RL1F46HGQ8VNM	0553293400	579875460	The Caves of Steel (R. Daneel Olivaw, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Possibly his most readable fiction	This book and Asimov's The Naked Sun, where Elijah Baley appears again,  form a delightful pair of what is probably Asimov's best, and certainly  most readable, fiction. Less epic and visionary but more approachable than  his Foundation novels, the book also introduces one of Asimov's most  memorable characters, the android detective, R. Daneel Olivaw.<br />Together,  Baley and Olivah make a great detective team in this futuristic murder  mystery novel, which also contains some of Asimov's first speculation on  the social implications of robots and androids, and he also discusses the  Three Laws of Robotics for which he became famous.	2000-08-30
2301596:US	45193257	R156ALCKUMD3KW	0671720651	275804899	The Regiment	Books	4	6	8	N	N	One of his best	The is one of Dalmas' best works. The Regiment is an engaging story about a human who joins a group of the universe's best soldiers in order to learn  more about them, with some intersting sidelines on metaphysics and military philosophy thrown in. I like Dalmas and think he is one of the better authors to come along in the 70s. A quick read and a good book to kill a Sat. afternoon.	2000-08-30
2301713:US	45193257	RDGVJZ1VZMHG5	0449237044	574038835	END OF ETERNITY	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Unknown little masterpiece	This short book is one of Asimov's minor masterpieces and, inexplicably,  one of the least well-known of his sci-fi novels. Asimov wrote about 18  sci-fi novels, and for some reason this little book gets overlooked,  probably because of the success of his Robot series, Daneel and Elijah  series, and of course his epic Foundation series. However, if you want a  fine Asimov read that stands on its own with an engaging plot about time  travel and what you could do with that, in addition to some nice  characterization, give this little gem a try.	2000-08-30
2301947:US	45193257	R11JD10R73NYJ3	9993954209	269305902	Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare (2 Volumes in 1) Vol 1: The Greek, Roman, and Italian Plays, Vol 2: The English Plays	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Useful guide to the plays	In this book Asimov has written readable essays on each of the plays, but  what sets this book apart from other books on Shakespeare is the extensive  marginal notations that comment on the action, historical background, or  linguistic aspects of the text as you proceed through each play. In this  way Asimov can provide you with important background material to clarify  what would otherwise be just another obscure passage or reference with no  real meaning to the modern reader. I give Asimov points for this very  useful didactic device even if he occasionally gets too cute with his own  opinions.	2000-08-30
2302228:US	45193257	R3KQX65C66JX0C	0140444696	771237926	The Kreutzer Sonata and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	For Tolstoy a quick read	The Kreutzer Sonata is a fascinating study of an abusive marriage--Russian  nobility style. I found it interesting if only for that, in addition to  which it's only about 100 pages long, so for Tolstoy this is a quick  read.<br />I read something funny in Tolstoy's own comments about this work.  He mentions he read the manuscript to his family before it was published,  and that it was very well received by everybody. Then I read some years  later that his wife was upset he had written it since it could have been  construed as a commentary on their own marriage.<br />Anyway, I hope this  wasn't an autobiographical work; otherwise, I can see why he turned  religious in his later years.	2000-08-30
2303464:US	45193257	R2JZ66XMAI6CR0	0870400010	74093068	Advanced Karate	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Outstanding	This is an outstanding presentation of advanced techniques, and especially  how the various stances and hand positions lead into the different  applications. Also excellent presentations of the advanced Kyokushin Kai  forms. A must have for the karateist at every level of skill.<br /><br />By the way, I learned an amazing fact about Oyama's books recently, five years after I wrote this review. I was recently told that if you have Oyama's three volume set of What is Karate?, This is Karate, and Advanced Karate, in very good condition, it's worth about $1200. I can't vouch for the validity of this myself, but pass it on for what it's worth to all the old karate hands out there like me who might have all three books sitting around gathering dust. Well, those old Oyama volumes might just be worth something. :-)	2000-08-29
2303522:US	45193257	R1FK1AYVKX4EHF	0685221385	952506358	This Is Karate	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Essential Kyokushin manual	This is the best work on the Kyokushin Kai Goju style and one of the greatest books ever written on the subject of Karate. This work and Oyama's Advanced Karate are essential books for the beginner and advanced karateka  alike.<br /><br />By the way, I learned an amazing fact about Oyama's books recently, five years after I wrote this review. I was recently told that if you have Oyama's three-volume set of What is Karate?, This is Karate, and Advanced Karate, in very good condition, it's worth about $1200. I can't vouch for the validity of this myself, but pass it on for what it's worth to all the old karate hands out there like me who might have all three books sitting around gathering dust. Well, those old Oyama volumes might just be worth something. :-)	2000-08-29
2303918:US	45193257	R1X6BCD0GWGPYQ	0374511993	754969879	Cancer Ward: A Novel (FSG Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gripping	Solzhenitsyn writes novels of human misery and suffering as brooding,  intense, and seemingly as vast as mother Russia herself. In that sense he  a fitting heir to the literary tradition of Tolstoy, Sholokov, Bunin, and  Pasternak.<br /><br />This book and Solzhenitsyn's \\"The First Circle\\" were  two of the finest works of Russian fiction I've ever read. I thoroughly  enjoyed these two books, which I consider much better than his oft-cited  \\"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.\\"	2000-08-29
2304006:US	45193257	R1874PUBZY1I2C	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great classic still packs a punch	This was reminiscent of Heinlein's book, Starship Troopers, and in many ways it's Haldeman's tribute to Heinlein, but it stands on its own as a great story. So if you liked Troopers, you'll probably like this one, too.     One major difference between the two books is that there are few uplifting lessons to be learned from the war between the humans and the alien race, which is more advanced genetically and scientifically in some ways. Unlike Troopers, in which the beleagured but valiant humans just barely manage to defeat the bugs, in the Forever War the heroism themes take a back seat to the dreary, daily realities of the many centuries long, drawn- out war. And in the end, the whole war turns out to have been based on an unfortunate misunderstanding.     I waited over 20 years to read this book, but its melancholy, unvarnished, and evocative portrayal of war sticks pack a punch. It's still one of the great futuristic war novels, like Heinlein's  Starship Troopers, Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game, and Arthur C. Clarke's  Earthlight. I wish there were more like them, but few Sci-Fi writers can  describe a futuristic war scene or a battle like Haldeman and Heinlein can.    Overall, it's still a great novel about a futuristic war, and the ultimate futility of war. If Haldeman is right, 10,000 years from now we'll still be fighting such wars and humans will be no wiser than they are today. Certainly the present gives no hope that will change. It's also a tale of a great love story between two of the main characters, whose love transcends the stupidity and meaninglessness of the greater human culture and the futile war that ensues.	2000-08-29
2304136:US	45193257	RO6K4IRW6SB8I	0870117882	202400181	Dynamic Karate: Instruction by the Master (Bushido- The Way of the Warrior)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Essential manual	This book is now 35 years old and is still the best handbook you can get  on Karate. Nakayama has excellent photos and detailed descriptions of all the techniques. This book and Oyama's \\"This is Karate\\" and  \\"Advanced Karate\\" are the three greatest manuals ever written on  the subject.<br /><br />The book contains no forms, so it is all techniques. But  that's okay, as learning the forms from a book is just about impossible,  unless you've had a lot of previous training or already know them and just  need to remind yourself about a forgotten move. Nakayama's other books have  the Shotokan forms, if you want them, and Oyama's books contain most of the Kyokushin Kai Goju forms.	2000-08-29
2304234:US	45193257	RE38HJZJRYDSD	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Groundbreaking 50's work	Bester was a groundbreaking Sci-Fi author in the 1950's with this book and  \\"The Demolished Man,\\" which won the first Hugo award. It is  basically a retelling of the story from \\"The Count of Monte  Cristo\\" in Sci-Fi form, but it loses none of its power for that, and  the story certainly stands on its own merits.<br /><br />The transformation of  Gulliver Foyle from an ignorant, low-grade spacehand to a shrewd,  intelligent, and educated, but tortured man capable of carrying out his  revenge on the Vorga crew, is one of the great character portrayals in  Sci-Fi. This book remains one of the great classics of science fiction and is still worth your money and time to read.	2000-08-29
2305061:US	45193257	R1CJU69OHOU1BA	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Possibly the greatest Sci-Fi Novel	This would probably be my pick for the #1 Sci-Fi novel. It would certainly  be in my top 10 list, which would include books like Dune, Starship  Troopers, The Forever War, Stranger in a Strange Land, The Uplift War, and  so on.<br />In this captivating and poignant book, the human race comes to a  bittersweet ending by evolving into a strange, communal intelligence,  thereby leaving the limitations of isolated corporeal minds behind. The  Overlords, who have reached the pinnacle of &quot;individual&quot;  evolution, and whose minds are perhaps a hundred times more powerful than a  human's, are memorable characters. If you only read one Sci-Fi book, this  should be it.	2000-08-28
2309140:US	45193257	R31J53UN9RJBKL	0671721674	92373266	Glory Road	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Heinlein does Fantasy !	This was basically Heinlein's take on a Sword (literally) and Sorcery novel, and it's surprisingly good considering Fantasy stories (although see  his story &quot;And He Built and Crooked House&quot; --which is wonderfully  witty) are not necessarily his forte.<br />In this story, an unemployed,  returning Vietnam vet meets a beautiful Amazon-like woman, Star, after  answering an ad for a job. She thinks he's the perfect candidate, and  before you can say &quot;shazzam!&quot; he is embarked on a picaresque,  swashbuckling romp through the multiple dimensions of the &quot;Seven  Universes.&quot;<br />I especially enjoyed the sword-play, and all the  erudition about fencing, in the book. I didn't know Heinlein knew much  about this, but he probably studied it at Anapolis when he was at the Naval  Academy.<br />As long as we're on the subject of fencing, there was one scene  in this book that reminded me of the &quot;The Princess Bride&quot; where  the other swordsman switches sword hands and keeps on fighting Scar Gordon,  our hero. Apparently his opponent wasn't even fighting with his  &quot;good&quot; hand until then! But despite this amazing display of  virtuosity Gordon still defeats his opponent.<br />Whether this is your kind  of Heinlein fare or not (fans are divided on their opinions of this book),  it's still quite an entertaining story, with more adult themes than his  earlier &quot;juvenile&quot; novels.	2000-08-24
2312872:US	45193257	R3B4GMQIJZ5MH8	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Almost my favorite Heinlein story	This is my favorite of Heinlein's \\"juveniles\\" (although it really isn't a true juvenile) and almost my favorite Heinlein book of all time.<br /><br />This story about a class of high school students in Advanced Survival becoming marooned on a hostile world and learning to cope with its dangers, in the end setting up their own frontier society when it becomes apparent that the retrieval Star Gate has malfunctioned, is, in my humble opinion, one of Heinlein's most memorable stories. It really transcends the juvenile rubric that's usually assigned to it.<br /><br />In some ways, it's a little bit like Robinson Crusoe in the 22nd century, except for the much larger cast of characters. And at the risk of appearing a cultural barbarian, I like it better than the famous Daniel Defoe volume (which I did read all the way through). However, the book is interesting in that, depending on which literary authority you consult, either Defoe's book (published in 1719) or Samuel Richardson's Pamela (published in 1740), is considered the first true novel. So Defoe deserves credit for that.<br /><br />I liked the concept of the stobor, which I'm sure most readers noticed is simply the word \\"robots\\" spelled backwards. I'm sure Carel Capek (the Czech writer who wrote the play, R.U.R., Rossum's Universal Robots) would approve. :-)<br /><br />We are also treated to an early Heinlein disquisition on the theory of leadership and government in small groups when one of the older college students (can't recall the name anymore) explains to Rod why he ran into trouble during his early leadership of the stranded group.<br /><br />Anyway, having read both Robinson Crusoe and Tunnel, I recommend you read Heinlein's story first. Tunnel in the Sky is shorter and more approachable than his longer, major adult novels like Stranger in a Strange Land, The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, and Starship Troopers, and it's as good an introduction to Heinlein's books as any. And even if you only read one Heinlein book, this should be it.	2000-08-22
2312956:US	45193257	R1STTDGTO92OLK	1855068532	697147727	Collected Works Of Samuel Alexander (Thoemmes Press - Bristol Introductions)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Versatile methodologist	This review is about Alexander's Space, Time, and Deity, but this book isn't available on Amazon as a separate title, so I thought I would review  it here in the section for his collected works.<br />The main thing I wanted  to say is that I learned a lot about the craft of doing philosophy from  Alexander. His method is interesting. He moves backward and forward between  deduction, induction, historical argument, and scientific and mathematical  reasoning without any sense of discontinuity in order to explain and  support his proposals.<br />In other words, he will use whatever seems  appropriate and whatever works. I liked this approach, regardless of  whether I would subscribe to any of his metaphysical or epistemological  ideas. He is an interesting and worthwhile philosopher if only for that.	2000-08-22
2314203:US	45193257	R2KFT9JSN6MCR	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another classic	Another great Heinlein classic, along with Starship Troopers,The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, and Double-Star, all of which won Hugo Awards.<br />It's interesting to note that this book was published only 3 years after Starship Troopers (1959), in which Heinlein seems to propose a government based upon a military oligarchy, since only veterans can vote. Heinlein was criticized for proposing such an apparently authoritarian society. Then he writes this novel, which is at least partly about rebelling against almost every conceivable kind of social authority, both secular and religious, and in which most of the legitimately constituted authorities appear corrupt. Of course, the theme of rebelling against a supposedly legitimate but corrupt or evil government is not uncommon in Heinlein's novels, and can be found in his Between Planets, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Farham's Freehold, If This Goes On, and other stories.<br />But Stranger is mostly about Valentine Michael Smith and his followers, who form their own Utopian society. Their practices of free love and free sexuality, the development of psi powers through Smith's Martian mental discplines, and the promise of a higher, more evolved consciousness practically became a bible for the \\"free-love generation\\" of the 60's.<br />It just goes to show you the broad range of themes Heinlein was capable of dealing with in his novels.	2000-08-21
2320703:US	45193257	R3QV2UZ9TTMXX4	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	1	20	51	N	N	Very Weak	This book won both a Hugo and a Nebula award, an amazing feat for the time (and still is). I'm usually pretty much in agreement with the choices on  these things, but in this case I have to disagree. It's been some years  since I've made a point of reading all the Hugo and Nebula-award winners,  but up till that time I'd read every story and book that had won either of  them, and in my opinion this is the weakest book ever to win either of  these prestigious awards. The book isn't bad, but it certainly isn't in the  class with your typical Nebula or Hugo winner. There are Le Guin stories  that I liked much better. It's okay for general reading, but if you're  looking for something truly Nebula or Hugo worthy, look elsewhere.<br />An odd  piece of personal trivia here--I was a biology and psychology major in  college back in the mid 70's at San Francisco State University, and I had a  young psychological statistics prof by the name of Ted Kroeber. One time he  was talking to someone in class, and I happened to hear him say his sister  recently got married to some Frenchman by the name of Le Guin and moved to  Oregon.<br />Some of you may know that Alfred Kroeber was America's first  great, and possibly greatest, anthropologist. So Le Guin is another of  Kroeber's children. I'd known that Ted was his son but I didn't know his  sister was the emminent woman Sci-Fi writer until then. Sorry about dissing  his sister's book, 'cause Ted was actually a pretty cool statistics  prof.<br />Just goes to show you it's a small world.	2000-08-16
2324249:US	45193257	RCAKWHAJPORQX	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	5 Stars!	This was my first Harry Potter book, and I have to admit that although I'm not a teenager anymore, I really enjoyed this book. I decided to get the  latest one to see what all the excitement was about. Now that I've read it,  I can see why everybody is raving about these books. They're fun for  everyone, from 8 to 80!	2000-08-14
2324861:US	45193257	RY49IVKZNRT1H	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	9	14	N	N	The classic	Heinlein was the successor to the H.G. Wellsian tradition of sociological science fiction. Like Wells, Heinlein excelled at taking certain scientific  and technological factors, extrapolating from them, and then building a  plausible society on those elements.<br />There are a lot of great aspects to  this book. Heinlein's depiction of what life might be like aboard a large  starship is startling in its breadth and depth of detail, and just overall  realism.<br />However, for me the best parts are the pitched ground battles  between the Federation Mobile Infantry troops and the various alien  species. Heinlein realizes these in spectacular fashion. You feel as if  you're right there in the middle of the action. This is one of the things  he is truly great at, and it made a tremendous impact on me when I read the  book for the first time in the early 60's as a young teenager, only a few  years after the book was published.<br />Some people have criticized this book  for apparently proposing a system of government based upon a military  oligarchy, since only people who have served in the military can vote.  Perhaps this was the society that Heinlein himself wanted to live in. This  seems plausible because he seems so earnest about the idea in the  book.<br />However, he isn't consistent on this point. In Double-Star, for  example, another of his Hugo-Award winning novels, the Earth has a  parliamentary system headed up by a brilliant Prime Minister, the Honorable  Bonforte. Other books seem to propose other governmental systems as the  model.<br />However, I can't say as this system sounds so bad to me now, after  having had 8 years of a President who is more interested in getting  blow-jobs than in serving the American people (and I'm a Democrat). It  might be better than our current system where politicians, whether  Democratic or Republican, can be bought for relatively small sums of money,  and there are virtually no moral and ethical standards anymore. (I would  feel slightly better if I thought they could only be bought for very large  sums of money, after all, why sell out cheap?)<br />In Heinlein's future, the  universe is a very dangerous place, and someone who has volunteered for  military service has at least demonstrated he is willing, at some level, to  put his own self-interest below that of society's. Does anybody really  believe our politicians hold such ideals anymore?<br />However, people have  made too much of the politics in this book. Even in a science-fiction book  politics makes for dull reading. This is really a book about a futuristic  ground war and the characters who fight it. The story makes for exciting  reading if only for that.feel slightly better if I thought they could only be bought for very large  sums of money, after all, why sell out cheap?)<br />In Heinlein's future, the  universe is a very dangerous place, and someone who has volunteered for  military service has at least demonstrated he is willing, at some level, to  put his own self-interest below that of society's. Does anybody really  believe our politicians hold such ideals anymore?<br />However, people have  made too much of the politics in this book. Even in a science-fiction book  politics makes for dull reading. This is really a book about a futuristic  ground war and the characters who fight it. The story makes for exciting  reading if only for that.	2000-08-13
2326050:US	45193257	RN18TFW92398A	0786866020	257333183	Fish: A Proven Way to Boost Morale and Improve Results	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great story	How a little  market in Seattle became the inspiration for a book on how  to re-engineer your workplace environment makes a great story just by  itself. This book on how you can turn your workplace from a psychological  &quot;toxic waste dump&quot; into one that is positive, energizing, and  fun, takes its inspiration from an unlikely source. The ideas here  originated, not from some modern, high-tech company's Harvard-MBA-educated  yuppie HR director, but from Seattle's Pike St. Fish Market.<br />I live in  the Bay Area, but I have visited Seattle many times and I'll never forget  the first time I visited the market. It was my first visit to Seattle so I  asked someone what I should see.<br />I was surprised, in a city with many  beautiful attractions (such as the famous Space Needle), when I was told to  check out the Fish Market. I thought this was odd but off I went down to  the wharf. I parked and walked over to the concourse where the market was  supposed to be and walked along the walkway past all the shops. There are a  lot of shops so I just kept walking along for a while. I was about to ask  someone if they knew where the Fish Market was when I heard a shout and a  large, silvery missile flew threw the air in front of me as the crowd  laughed. I had found the Fish Market.<br />The Fishmongers do this thing where  they play catch in front of the store with a large, slippery fish. The fish  goes sailing through the air at high speed and through the crowd and one of  the other fishmonger's catches it and then throws it back. They call out to  each other and make jokes all the while they're doing this.<br />In other  words, they're obviously having a lot of fun, and they put on a good show  for the crowd.<br />When I saw this book, I was delighted that someone had  discovered that there really was something special about this Fish Market,  and had written a book on their ideas on how to make a better workplace. I  work in Silicon Valley, and, paradoxically, there are advanced, high-tech  companies here whose workplace environments are anything but advanced and  high-tech. They could learn valuable lessons on how to change that from  this low-tech, seemingly humble source.here are advanced, high-tech  companies here whose workplace environments are anything but advanced and  high-tech. They could learn valuable lessons on how to change that from  this low-tech, seemingly humble source.	2000-08-12
2326194:US	45193257	R2HXMPV7X9LC6A	1565926005	476701523	PalmPilot: The Ultimate Guide: Mastering Palm Organizers from Pilot 1000 to Palm VII	Books	4	88	89	N	N	Useful book	Since there are lots of good general reviews already here of this book, I  thought I would add a few comments I didn't see elsewhere.<br />Although this  is an excellent book, I think most people who buy Palm Pilots and Visors  are technically savvy enough so that learning the basic operation of the  device or the built-in apps is not much of a problem, which is what most of  the book is about.<br />That being the case, I think the best way for most  owners to use this book is to do the following. The book has hundreds of  undocumented tips and tricks that are worth the price of the book just by  themselves. I would just go through each chapter and read these first, and  not worry too much about the rest of the text for now. Then later, if you  want to go back and read the full description of one of the applications or  some other topic, you could do it then.<br />The tips and tricks are set off  on each page with a little picture of an owl, so they're not hard to find.  I actually read the whole book before this occurred to me, which was fine,  but since then I have dipped back into many of the chapters just to refresh  my memory on all the great tips and tricks, and I've found this to be a  good way to pick up more time-saving short-cuts, or just new, fun ways to  use the device.<br />In addition to all the tips and tricks there are several  special sections I have to mention just because they're so much fun. These  are the descriptions of how to access all the hidden &quot;Easter  eggs.&quot; There are more of these than I realized. You can learn how to  bring up all of them, including the &quot;dancing palm tree,&quot; and the  little &quot;taxi cab.&quot; (The Palm's original project code name was  &quot;Taxi&quot;). Since there are several places in the text where these  appear, the best way to locate them is to just look up &quot;Easter  eggs&quot; in the book index.<br />There is one chapter, however, that I would  read all the way through. This is the chapter on hot-synching. There is  some good info here, especially on some of the more technical aspects of  hot-synching, but perhaps most importantly, on how to avoid some of the  pitfalls.<br />If you're an experienced Palm or Visor user, you may have  noticed that this process isn't always as straightforward as the regular  manual says, and sometimes it does some unexpected or even weird  things.<br />Since we're on the topic, I have to mention one of these here. If  you're one of those people who have two (or more) Palms or Visors, here is  the most important thing you can learn about hot-synching. I experienced  this problem before I encountered the explanation and fix for it in this  book. (This was worth the price of the book just by itself.)<br />If you have  two units and you hot-sync to the same machine or computer, you must give  each of the them a separate name in the Palm Desktop software. You do this  by clicking on the &quot;User&quot; box in the top-right of the Palm  Desktop software program and selecting &quot;edit users.&quot; Give the  second Palm a different name from the first. Then always use the correct  name with each Palm or Visor each time you hot-sync.<br />There is one more  gotcha here. In the desktop program you can pre-select the name of which  unit is to be hot-synched. However, if you do this from the cradle without  the desktop program being launched, it will pop up another dialog box, and  at that point you can select which name to use. If you just click on  &quot;okay&quot; assuming that the desktop program knows which one you're  using, you can still get into trouble.<br />If you fail to give different  units different names, and furthermore, to select the correct one each time  you hot-sync, the desktop software can become confused, and, as Pogue  points out, may hopelessly thrash the information on one or both units. So  beware.<br />All in all a useful book for any Palm or Visor owner.er on hot-synching. There is  some good info here, especially on some of the more technical aspects of  hot-synching, but perhaps most importantly, on how to avoid some of the  pitfalls. <br />If you're an experienced Palm or Visor user, you may have  noticed that this process isn't always as straightforward as the regular  manual says, and sometimes it does some unexpected or even weird  things.<br />Since we're on the topic, I have to mention one of these here. If  you're one of those people who have two (or more) Palms or Visors, here is  the most important thing you can learn about hot-synching. I experienced  this problem before I encountered the explanation and fix for it in this  book. (This was worth the price of the book just by itself.)<br />If you have  two units and you hot-sync to the same machine or computer, you must give  each of the them a separate name in the Palm Desktop software. You do this  by clicking on the &quot;User&quot; box in the top-right of the Palm  Desktop software program and selecting &quot;edit users.&quot; Give the  second Palm a different name from the first. Then always use the correct  name with each Palm or Visor each time you hot-sync. <br />There is one more  gotcha here. In the desktop program you can pre-select the name of which  unit is to be hot-synched. However, if you do this from the cradle without  the desktop program being launched, it will pop up another dialog box, and  at that point you can select which name to use. If you just click on  &quot;okay&quot; assuming that the desktop program knows which one you're  using, you can still get into trouble.<br />If you fail to give different  units different names, and furthermore, to select the correct one each time  you hot-sync, the desktop software can become confused, and, as Pogue  points out, may hopelessly thrash the information on one or both units. So  beware.<br />All in all a useful book for any Palm or Visor owner.	2000-08-12
2328091:US	45193257	R3KR2ADUE5DET7	0380798352	840989016	The Organ Grinders	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Go Fitzhugh !!!	I'd just finished Pest Control and dove right into Organ Grinders, and  it's just as funny as the first book. Perhaps even more darkly satirical  (if possible!) than Pest Control, which, even though it dealt with  characters such as hit men, had a somewhat lighter touch.<br />Integral to the  book's plot is an international traffic in organs and organ donors. I don't  know if things have come to the state depicted in Fitzhugh's book, but if  they aren't, they probably will soon. Aside from being hilariously funny,  Fitzhugh's book made me consider some of the issues surrounding organ  transplants and organ donors for the first time.<br />Until now, I wouldn't  have thought it possible for someone to write a funny book about a subject  like organ transplants.<br />If you liked Fitzhugh's zany brand of dark humor  in Pest Control, you'll like this one too.	2000-08-11
2330568:US	45193257	R37RFFURWSH7PB	0192833707	64542062	Republic (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	4	13	N	N	I agree with Thrasymachus	I wrote one prior review here of the Republic, but having finished it I  wanted to add something to my previous comments.<br />Early on in the book  there is the famous exchange between Socrates and the Sophist,  Thrasymachus. Socrates asks him for his definition of Justice, and  Thasymachus responds that &quot;Justice is the interest of the  stronger.&quot;<br />Socrates then uses his famous eponymous method to  seemingly demolish the Sophist's position, and then presents his own view  instead.<br />Unfortunately, I have to agree with Thrasymachus here, if only  on practical and historical grounds. Justice usually is the interest of the  stronger. Perhaps this is not what Justice should be in human and social  terms, but that's the reality.<br />Socrates' definition is a nice ideal, but  rarely works out that way in practice. If one thinks of Thrasymachus'  definition as simply pragmatic and realistic, and Socrates' definition as  being the ideal that a true republic (or whatever society) should strive  for, then I think this is a more accurate view of the situation. Socrates  makes Thrasymachus' idea appear invalid, but in fact, his idea is more  accurate in terms of how things actually work out in most parts of the  world (and even in the US) than is Socrates' idea.<br />Not that this is right  or even desirable, it's just the way things are.	2000-08-09
2335005:US	45193257	R3UEQUD8LBDCC9	0764505815	277079374	Palm Computing For Dummies	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Useful book	This is a useful and entertainingly written book by an author with an  interesting background. According to the blurb in the book, the author was  an actor, singer, and playwright before embarking on his present writing  and consulting career, and wrote the successful off-Broadway play  99%ArtFree!<br />Don't let his prior non-technical background put you off,  however, as this book is chock full of good information as well as lots of  useful tips and tricks, which will get you jump-started to using your Palm  or Visor like a pro in no time.	2000-08-06
2343550:US	45193257	RLLE93GGL1AC7	0140440488	64542062	The Republic (Penguin Books for Philosophy)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	The classic--what did you expect?	There probably isn't much I can add in a scholarly vein to what people have already said about Plato. So I thought I would make a few personal observations from the standpoint of a somewhat philosophically literate, 21st century man who is reading such an august classic in middle age.<br />I came to this book with more of a background in modern epistemology and the philosophy of science than in classical philosophy. So political philosophy isn't exactly my strong suit, but nevertheless I found the book interesting reading in a way I hadn't really thought of before.<br />Actually, I had read portions of this book 20 years ago when I was a young student first studying philosophy, and I have to say, there is something to be said for having a more mature outlook in approaching such a venerable work. At the time I thought political philosophy pretty dull stuff, and besides, I felt there was no real way to answer any of the important political questions that get debated here, despite the easy way Socrates disposes of everybody else's half-baked opinions and theories.<br />The fact is, if you move ahead 2400 years and read something like Karl Popper's \\"The Open Society and Its Enemies,\\" an advanced modern work, you can see how much, or how little, political philosophy has progressed in the last 24 centuries.<br />Well, that may be true, but at least with this book you know where it basically all started. The best way to decide this issue is to read the book and decide for yourself.<br />Although entitled \\"The Republic,\\" this society isn't like any republic you've probably ever read about. Plato proposes an ant-like communism where there is no private ownership of property, philosophers are kings, kings are philosophers, people cultivate physical, moral, and ethical qualities, and the idea of the good takes the place of political and social virtues.<br />Another odd facet is that the bravest citizens are permitted more wives than those less brave in battle. And then there is the infamous proposition that all poets and artists are to be banished since they are harmful purveyors of false illusions.<br />I find the Socratic method as a way of moving along the dialogue between the participants sort of interesting, and it is certainly an effective device. However, none of these people, even the Sophist Thrasymachus, are really Socrates' intellectual equal, so he really doesn't have much competition here.<br />If ancient Athens disproportionately had so many towering intellects, relative to its small population (about 20,000 people, most of whom were slaves anyway), you'd think they would show up in Plato's dialogues more. But all we seem to get are second-raters who are really no match for the clever Socrates.<br />Yet I would say this is still a great book. Classical scholars say there are more perfect, less flawed dialogues than Plato's Republic, but none that are as profound, wide-ranging, and as influential and important for later philosophy. As someone once wrote, in a sense the entire history of western philosophy consists of nothing but \\"footnotes to Plato.\\" After finally reading it, I can see why there is so much truth to that statement.s the infamous proposition that all poets and artists are to be banished since they are harmful purveyors of false illusions.<br />I find the Socratic method as a way of moving along the dialogue between the participants sort of interesting, and it is certainly an effective device. However, none of these people, even the Sophist Thrasymachus, are really Socrates' intellectual equal, so he really doesn't have much competition here.<br />If ancient Athens disproportionately had so many towering intellects, relative to its small population (about 20,000 people, most of whom were slaves anyway), you'd think they would show up in Plato's dialogues more. But all we seem to get are second-raters who are really no match for the clever Socrates.<br />Yet I would say this is still a great book. Classical scholars say there are more perfect, less flawed dialogues than Plato's Republic, but none that are as profound, wide-ranging, and as influential and important for later philosophy. As someone once wrote, in a sense the entire history of western philosophy consists of nothing but \\"footnotes to Plato.\\" After finally reading it, I can see why there is so much truth to that statement.	2000-08-01
2344906:US	45193257	R2CM0BCSLV0E6	0380788683	91866805	Pest Control	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A blast	I was 100 pages into this book before I knew it, and am enjoying it so much I thought I'd dash off a quick review for it. This book reminded me of how much fun it was to discover Carl Hiaasen and Chris Moore for the first  time. Having finished with most of their output, I was looking for  something in a similar vein, so a friend recommended this book, and what a  delightful disovery it is.<br />There are a lot of funny aspects to this  book, so I will just mention one of them here and let you discover the rest  for yourself. The parts where the powers-that-be become convinced that the  young insect and pest-control man is the world's greatest and most  sought-after hit-man (he's &quot;The Exterminator&quot;) are just  hilarious, and remind me of the situation with the Chauncy Gardener  character in Jerzy Kosinsky's &quot;Being There.&quot; Fitzhugh pulls off a  similar gambit here, and it's just as funny.<br />This is my first book by  Fitzhugh. If the rest of his books are half as funny as this one he'll have  another fan.	2000-07-31
2345363:US	45193257	R620ZDK1J3WPT	0679454454	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Still funny	I've read all but two of Hiaasen's books at this point so I'm pretty familiar with his oeuvre and output.  And although this may not be Hiaasen at his quintessential best, it's still a very funny book. The  situation with the two powdered-rhino-horn snorting, twin Barbie dolls, the  way the bad-guy hit man, Mr. Gash, ironically winds up as a 911 emergency  himself (he gets off listening to tapes of 911 calls), and the final  climactic hunting scene with the senile rhino are all  hilarious.<br /><br />Ex-governor Skink also has a major role, who I missed from  the last two Hiaasen novels I read, where he wasn't present. His friend and  protector, Jim Tile, the devoted Florida State Trooper, is also back in  this book, and they always make a good pair.<br /><br />The way the culpable lobbyist, Palmer Stoat, comes in for various abuses at the hands of Twilly Spree (not to mention the occasional hilarious descriptive details, such as Hiaasen referring to Stoat's \\"shrunken genitalia\\") had me laughing again.<br /><br />Although some of Hiaasen's themes are getting a little used at this point, this is still a funny book and I would recommend it to Hiaasen fans as well as newcomers to his fiction.	2000-07-31
2363456:US	45193257	RGUETLBOJWTVO	0671785214	90097754	Home Town	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable page turner	I don't read much non-fiction that isn't science-oriented these days, but I found this book hard to put down. Having read Theodore Dreiser and Hawthorne at an early age, but not having many other literary reference  points, I associated books about New England towns with characters whose  personalities were as flinty as the soil of their native New England.  However, Kidder's characters (who are real, and not fictional) are  far-removed from this stereotype and painted with a great deal of  compassion and nostalgia. Silly me.<br />Kidder's book evokes the appealing  ambience of this small Massachusetts town through the lives of a number of  its citizens. Through the eyes of Tommy, the likeable and dedicated local  detective, we get a glimpse of both the upper levels of Northampton society  and its soft underbelly.<br />The aura of nostalgia for a small New England  town's way of life at the close of the 20th century becomes reality as  Tommy takes a new job, and gets set to move away from the Northhampton he  knows and loves.<br />All in all an appealing book that kept me interested  until the last page.	2000-07-19
2947171:US	45193257	RQSONULW3BFUZ	155643085X	767390498	Chinese Boxing: Masters and Methods	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Enjoyable personal memoir	I read this book some years ago when it first came out, and thought it was excellent. The book is basically a chronicle of Smith's trip to the Orient and his encounters with a number of different masters, with descriptions of their methods and ideas. It's an absorbing personal account, and Smith includes many interesting anecdotes and stories. It's not intended to be an instructional book for the beginner, since most of the book is text, and as I said, has more to do with Smith's exploits and encounters with various masters, both famous and obscure. But if you're already an experienced martial artist in at least one art, especially in one of the Chinese arts, you'll find much to think about and mull over in Smith's book, since he often compares and contrasts the personalities and methods of the different masters. Overall, Smith's personal memoir of his fascinating trip makes for enjoyable and informative reading.	1998-12-23
