10126:US	45284807	R3F3LFI7C3CJK5	0425206327	96342077	Courting Midnight (The Upyr Series, Book 5) (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	45	49	N	N	Positively Scorching !  Holly Rocks!	A warning is needed here. Readers be prepared to be ENTHRALLED by the fascinating and outright sensual laden world that Emma Holly creates with her exciting series of shape-changing upyrs.  More importantly, die-hard fans of Ms. Holly and her upyrs  will be delighted to discover the unusual background of Lucius the White - the oldest living vampire and his `out of this world' origins!<br /><br />A chance encounter along the road brought Lucius and his close companion and friend Edmund to meet Lucas Delavert.  Delavert's resemblance to Lucius was uncanny, and the chance to assume a mortal identity was a powerful  and tempting opportunity - one that seemed beneficial both to the powerful upyr while granting the dying man his last wish and some semblance of peace.<br /><br />In assuming the guise of Lucas, the prosperous local squire, Lucius was the target of the local matchmaking mamas all wishing to capture the elusive squire.  It wasn't until he came upon poor and unsuitable Theodora Beckett, on one of his nightly forays, that his natural predator instincts became aroused.  Using his powers to thrall, he was treated to an ecstasy with Theo that was unmatched in the centuries that he'd existed.  It was hard for him to believe that as the oldest and most powerful living vampire - he had fallen in love.  It also became apparent that Theo, seemingly under his thrall, was also in love - but if she discovered `what' he was, without any mind thralling by Lucius - would she be able to accept what he was or reject him in horror?<br /><br />--- OUCH! This one will positively scorch you!  I have absolutely loved Holly's entire compelling upyr series from CATCHING MIDNIGHT to HUNTING MIDNIGHT. Now Ms. Holly is keeping those sensual fires of passion rolling in another totally stand alone entry to the Midnight series with both her trademark steamy erotic sensuality, coupled with an amazing and touching love story of a soul mate who has journeyed the eons of time  to recapture an all-consuming love.  Additionally, the reader is also treated to a couple of other extremely stimulating romances -- Theo's sister Caroline and the gardener Sheffield; the upyr Edmund and his conquests; and be delighted with the young and precocious five year old Fitz Clare Baron, Percy.  This was an awesome and totally satisfying non-stop read from first page to the last.  Ms. Holly - you rock! --- Marilyn, for (...) ---Additionally, the reader is also treated to a couple of other extremely stimulating romances -- Theo's sister Caroline and the gardener Sheffield; the upyr Edmund and his conquests; and be delighted with the young and precocious five year old Fitz Clare Baron, Percy.  This was an awesome and totally satisfying non-stop read from first page to the last.   Ms. Holly - you rock! --- Marilyn, for (...) ---	2005-10-08
10411:US	45284807	R1K5Z2LQPZ5KKW	0451411552	711785673	Temptress (Onyx Novel)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Fascinating and Exciting Medieval Suspense Thriller	If you're looking for a suspense filled historical novel with more twists and turns then you can shake a stick at; as well as historically set against a backdrop of a medieval castle with secret corridors and peepholes; and for that edge of the seat feeling as a madman stalked his prey - then you must find yourself a copy of Jackson's latest historical thriller - TEMPTRESS.<br /><br /> Two years after the Christmas eve fire at Wybren Castle, where the entire family of her faithless lover, Carrick had perished, Lady Morwenna of Calon dreamt once more of the faithless cur that had broken her heart. Perhaps it was an omen of what would soon unfold as the hunters of Castle Calon returned to the keep that day, not with fresh kill, but with a stranger more dead than alive - so brutally beaten and bruised that he was not expected to last the night.<br /><br />Against the counsel of the captain of her guards, and feeling he posed no threat, Morwenna chose to treat the unidentifiable and comatose stranger with care and compassion. When noticed that the stranger wore a ring with the Wybren crest, there was little doubt in anyone's mind that the stranger was none other than Carrick, the cowardly murderer that had purposely set the fire killing his family, then running off into the night.<br /><br />While Morwenna knew her duty lay in notifying the present Lord of Wyfren that she held the alledged murderer in her keep, she still had her doubts that he was indeed Carrick.  It was one thing knowing Carrick for the cheat and liar rumored to have lain with his own brother's wife, and  she had no qualms of hating him after he'd taken her innocence, left her with child and never returned.  Yet, she still couldn't quite believe him evil enough to cold-bloodedly murder his family.  Most importantly, why was she so drawn to the stranger - how could she still  have feelings for a man who had so betrayed her?  As, the true murderer stalked the secret passageways of the castle, with more bodies turning up gruesomely slain, it would be a race against time as he plotted to strike again with Morwenna as his ultimate prize.<br /><br />--- This was a fabulous read showcasing Jackson's impressive trademark suspense and mystery writing skills.  Coupling the suspense with a medieval flavor for lovers of historical romance gives them a double treat.  Along with the well-written prose, vivid characterizations of a plethora of secondary characters, including so many red-herrings tossed into the fray will keep the reader on the edge of their seat right up to the very end!  While the author does a superb job of creating sultry and very hot sensual scenes, they seemed to come in secondary to the mystery and suspense aspects, which were fabulous.  Fans of Lisa Jackson, be they suspense or historical romance lovers, are sure to enjoy this latest novel and I personally hope she continues this fascinating and engaging saga. (...)esomely slain, it would be a race against time as he plotted to strike again with Morwenna as his ultimate prize.        --- This was a fabulous read showcasing Jackson's impressive trademark suspense and mystery writing skills.  Coupling the suspense with a medieval flavor for lovers of historical romance gives them a double treat.  Along with the well-written prose, vivid characterizations of a plethora of secondary characters, including so many red-herrings tossed into the fray will keep the reader on the edge of their seat right up to the very end!  While the author does a superb job of creating sultry and very hot sensual scenes, they seemed to come in secondary to the mystery and suspense aspects, which were fabulous.  Fans of Lisa Jackson, be they suspense or historical romance lovers, are sure to enjoy this latest novel and I personally hope she continues this fascinating and engaging saga. (...)	2005-10-08
21537:US	45284807	ROZ7M3MWYMJEH	0743486323	98556714	Only With a Highlander	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Fabulous Story - Wonderful Addition to the Series	When I decided to write reviews it was for a purpose - I LOVE to READ and if what I read really gives me pleasure - I wanted to let the world know!  I am delighted to tell you ONLY WITH A HIGHLANDER, another chronicle in Janet Chapman's time-travel / fantasy series, is a prime example of why this makes it all worth while!<br /><br />Winter MacKeage, resident artist on Tarstone Mountain, is the seventh daughter of Laird Greylen MacKeage a medieval Scot who had been transported to modern day Maine by a druid wizard [CHARMING THE HIGHLANDER - Jan'03].  The express purpose of the time-travel had been for Greylen to meet and marry a Grace, and father seven daughters, the seventh destined to be a very special woman - Winter.  For the last 24 years, Winter's life had been somewhat normal if you could call growing up surrounded by `some' of the family secrets the family kept.  In an effort to give Winter a normal upbringing her parents had withheld that one very special secret for as long as they could - until she reached the age of 25.  According to the resident wizard, it would soon be revealed that Winter would hold the future of mankind in her hands and when that happened her life would never be the same.<br /><br />At about the same time the feisty old wizard Fr. Daar sensed a shift in the energy surrounding the idyllic mountain they lived on, and pushed for Winter's parents to tell her of her destiny sooner.  Before that happened another presence would enter Winter's life in the form of a very virile, wealthy, and handsome stranger, Matt Gregor.  Sensing the magic in Winter's paintings as well as her fierce attraction to him - an attraction that was mutual on his part as well - Matt was determined to make her his and compel her loyalty to him by fair means or foul.  Only time, which was fast running out, would tell if Matt was turning out to be Winter's demise or her destiny and would Winter's love be enough to help Matt restore hope to his aching heart.<br /><br />*** I have been following Ms. Chapman's Highlander series since the very beginning and  am continually impressed with the dazzling stories she has created along this theme of the time-transported MacKeage and MacBain clans.  Her writing exemplifies all the elements I've come to expect from this fabulous series, from the sensual and emotional love stories that the displaced clan members experience, to the drama of their fights to battle evil foes, and the adventures and twists along the way.  Winter's story was worth waiting for as this sensitive and extraordinary woman came into her own. Written with a sincere and loving hand that makes you `feel the love' this author again exceeds all levels in giving the reader an extraordinarily wonderful fantasy time-travel series that I highly recommend.  --- Marilyn (...)owing Ms. Chapman's Highlander series since the very beginning and  am continually impressed with the dazzling stories she has created along this theme of the time-transported MacKeage and MacBain clans.  Her writing exemplifies all the elements I've come to expect from this fabulous series, from the sensual and emotional love stories that the displaced clan members experience, to the drama of their fights to battle evil foes, and the adventures and twists along the way.  Winter's story was worth waiting for as this sensitive and extraordinary woman came into her own. Written with a sincere and loving hand that makes you `feel the love' this author again exceeds all levels in giving the reader an extraordinarily wonderful fantasy time-travel series that I highly recommend.  --- Marilyn (...)	2005-10-01
21681:US	45284807	R2TRMB2EUROPIN	0821777904	445102909	One Golden Ring	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Truly FEEL-GOOD Delightful Romance	If you're looking for a book to put a smile on your face - from beginning until the end - of a truly heart-warming romance, then give yourself a treat and gift yourself with this latest offering from Cheryl Bolen.<br /><br />In an attempt to cheer up his best friend the very effeminate Trevor Simpson convinced, Lady Fiona Hollingsworth to attend the theater with him. Feeling somewhat guilty enjoying herself while her brother's life was being threatened she couldn't help admiring the beautiful actress on stage.  Trevor, in his usual informative way of `being in the know' pointed out  that across the theater from their box sat her protector - the fabulously wealthy and extremely handsome Nicholas Birmingham a powerful stockbroker.  Birmingham was not unknown to her as her brother had reluctantly introduced her to him a year ago.  While she'd been impressed by the more than pleasant and handsome man, due to the difference in their stations, he a Cit and she a member of the ton, a friendship could never be condoned.<br /><br />Except desperate times called for desperate measures, and after the last year of having, lost her father; been jilted by the man she'd been in love with half her life, Lord Warwick; and with her brother being held for ransom and his life hanging in the balance, Fiona announced to Trevor that she had a plan.  She needed money, lots of it - to free her brother held for ransom - and with only a week to do it, she would enlist the help of Mr. Birmingham.  She would simply go to Mr. Nicholas Birmingham and strike a bargain asking him for the money needed to pay the ransom.  Astonished, Trev asked what she planned to use for collateral since her estate was nearly bankrupt and all the land entailed.  Fiona calmly answered `herself'!  Although, the next morning when face - to face with the handsome financier - she wasn't quite so calm, especially when after she asked, if he would accept as collateral, herself, as his bride - he turned her down - flat!<br /><br />---  Ah, well as the story proceeds, our devastatingly handsome hero, does end up taking the beauteous Fiona as his bride in this totally delightful, beautifully sensual, and endearingly romantic love story.  These two leads were simply made for one another with both sharing a sensual passionate nature that made their physical relationship a dream come true [totally hot!].  Naturally, they would have some misunderstandings, but the author crafts these two as such loving and caring people that the angst they face on the road to happiness was not without some bumps.  The secondary love story with the pompous Randolph and Nicholas' sister Verity was a lovely bonus as well as the secondary characters who filled the pages with love, camaraderie, and humor (Trevor was a hoot!) - A quick read, it is nothing short of a fresh breath of spring air - and deeply satisfying! I so totally loved this!  --- Marilyn (...)ell as the story proceeds, our devastatingly handsome hero, does end up taking the beauteous Fiona as his bride in this totally delightful, beautifully sensual, and endearingly romantic love story.  These two leads were simply made for one another with both sharing a sensual passionate nature that made their physical relationship a dream come true [totally hot!].  Naturally, they would have some misunderstandings, but the author crafts these two as such loving and caring people that the angst they face on the road to happiness was not without some bumps.  The secondary love story with the pompous Randolph and Nicholas' sister Verity was a lovely bonus as well as the secondary characters who filled the pages with love, camaraderie, and humor (Trevor was a hoot!) - A quick read, it is nothing short of a fresh breath of spring air - and deeply satisfying! I so totally loved this!  --- Marilyn (...)	2005-10-01
22195:US	45284807	R2KSAAAKM0GNU	0743496108	357668604	One Little Sin	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Another POWERFUL and Sensual Laden Read!!!	They were the `privileged' men - brothers Alasdair and Merrick MacLachlan, and Quin, Lord Wynwood who took their pleasures, whenever and wherever they could. They'd been guilty of using and exploiting without paying a price, until when after merrily escaping from a scrape of Alasdairs' making they happened to take refuge in a gypsy tent. The gypsy, a fortune-teller, wasn't about to let them off easy, giving each their comeuppance along with a strange somber warning. Thinking the woman a quack they all walked away - perhaps a little more sober.<br /><br />After returning home, during the night Alasdair was awakened by a disturbance at his door by a young girl - or so she seemed - drenched from the storm, carrying a basket of laundry - or so it looked. The young woman, as it turned out, was Miss Esmee Hamilton, and it was not laundry she carried in the basket, but her young sister - and as she pointedly accused Alasdair - HIS daughter!<br /><br />Upon the recent death of her mother, Esmee, along with her toddler sister, had been tossed out of their home by a very spiteful stepfather who had been cuckolded by her mother who during a bitter fight with him had confessed all. Homeless, Esmee, a very self righteous and determined Scottish lass, made her way to London and planned to beard the responsible party in his den, making him take responsibility for his `one little sin'.<br /><br />Not without noticing her sparkling green eyes, and thinking to keep the young woman around as a governess to care for the child she was loathe to leave, Esmee and Alasdair negotiated the position of governess. Although Esmee was prepared to despise the man, who'd caused her life's upheaval; and she let her tongue give him a lashing he rightfully deserved; she found that as time went on, and when push came to shove, the tongue he gave her back was pure pleasure!<br /><br />--- When the gypsy foretold --- \\"What is to come will be as real and as painful as that bruise between your eyes.\\"  Clearly, Carlyle, who has a gift in creating original and captivating characters surely outdid herself with this latest entry and first book in a new series. We've all read books with rakes that have been reformed by the love of a good woman- and believe me Alasdair MacLachlan had very little in the way of redeeming qualities! Yet, when a prophecy by a mysterious gypsy came back to haunt him - WOW! My God - Carlyle engaged emotions making ME feel Alasdair's pain in a way that was so heart wrenchingly real she all but took my breath away! Sorcha, the toddler was darling and the transformation of Alasdair into doting father will definitely cause a lump in your throat. The secondary characters were built up with just enough over gloss to tease the reader into anxiously awaiting the sequels for Quin and Merricks' stories. Carlyle scores BIG TIME with this highly creative, extremely well-written and powerfully emotional and sensual laden romance!<br />--  Marilyn (...)t in creating original and captivating characters surely outdid herself with this latest entry and first book in a new series. We've all read books with rakes that have been reformed by the love of a good woman- and believe me Alasdair MacLachlan had very little in the way of redeeming qualities! Yet, when a prophecy by a mysterious gypsy came back to haunt him - WOW! My God - Carlyle engaged emotions making ME feel Alasdair's pain in a way that was so heart wrenchingly real she all but took my breath away! Sorcha, the toddler was darling and the transformation of Alasdair into doting father will definitely cause a lump in your throat. The secondary characters were built up with just enough over gloss to tease the reader into anxiously awaiting the sequels for Quin and Merricks' stories. Carlyle scores BIG TIME with this highly creative, extremely well-written and powerfully emotional and sensual laden romance!   --  Marilyn (...)	2005-10-01
22493:US	45284807	R2A03BNDK24Y8Z	0553804480	965319559	The Smoke Thief	Books	5	48	61	N	N	Totally Mesmerizing Shapeshifting Dragons!!  WOW!	After finishing THE SMOKE THIEF by Shana Abe', I feel it prudent to report - Ms's. Feehan, Kenyon, and Holly - make some room in the shape-shifters' realm; there is a new kid on the block and she ROCKS! Make room because here come the Drakon's!<br /><br />They've lived for centuries in northern England's green hills and mountains, guarded, honored and treasured - extraordinarily beautiful and sensual creatures - able to shape-shift from human to dragon and back again. A close tribe that keeps to themselves except for the few that escape - `runners' who are swiftly found, brought back to Darkfrith and punished. Alerted by rumors from London of a jewel thief, `that could disappear in smoke' the Drakon council knew that this was not a human, but another `runner' who had fled Darkfrith without permission. Christoff `Kit' Langford, the Alpha leader and enigmatic Marquess of Langford, knows that the `runner' must be caught before revealing the existence of Drakon's to mortals and planned to dangle the Langford diamond, the tribes' most tempting jewel, as bait in order to trap him. What Christoff, or the council never expected to discover was that the `runner' was not a he but a she.<br /><br />After years growing up as an outcast in Darkfrith, as a Halfling - half drakon, half mortal - Clarisa Rue Hawthorne on her seventeenth birthday had orchestrated her `death' and fled. Rue knew that a female had not been capable of `Turning' in over four generations and on that day that she had `Turned' -- as an Alpha female - she would be destined to be Kit's bride. After having loved Kit her entire life, she could not have endured being married to him without his love in return. For the last nine years, she had lived in London masquerading as a widow and relished her freedom. When captured by Kit, who in the process lost the famous Langford Diamond, Rue would offer Kit a proposal to help him reclaim the jewel in return for her freedom. Kit accepted her challenge - all the while expecting to win not only the diamond, but something more precious - this most amazingly beautiful woman, Rue, as his willing bride.<br /><br />- I loved this book! From the very first pages I was totally mesmerized by this fascinating, highly imaginative, and sensually thrilling world of the Drakons. Kit and Rue's sensual dance was exotic, totally bewitching and one, which will leave the reader panting for more. Whether on land or in the air, Shana Abe' has created vivid and exhilarating imagery in the mating dance of the Drakons that is sure to please the most discriminating fans of historical fantasy and catapult this author right up the ranks with the likes of Kenyon, Holly, and Krinard. I for one will be very anxiously awaiting future sequels to this spellbinding new series featuring the Drakons!e expecting to win not only the diamond, but something more precious - this most amazingly beautiful woman, Rue, as his willing bride.  <br /> <br />- I loved this book! From the very first pages I was totally mesmerized by this fascinating, highly imaginative, and sensually thrilling world of the Drakons. Kit and Rue's sensual dance was exotic, totally bewitching and one, which will leave the reader panting for more. Whether on land or in the air, Shana Abe' has created vivid and exhilarating imagery in the mating dance of the Drakons that is sure to please the most discriminating fans of historical fantasy and catapult this author right up the ranks with the likes of Kenyon, Holly, and Krinard. I for one will be very anxiously awaiting future sequels to this spellbinding new series featuring the Drakons!  <br /> <br />	2005-10-01
22747:US	45284807	R1SV11FBWWB8KE	0446614386	454499563	The Marriage Bargain	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Excellent Storytelling By This Newest Rising Star!	The one thing one can be assured of when picking up this author's books is that they will be full of originality and generally contain a surprise or two! In THE MARRIAGE BARGAIN the reader will definitely find this to be true!<br /><br />Emma Chambers, in order to avoid marriage to a lecherous older man, agreed to wed in name only the very dashing and handsome soldier, Spenser Keenan, Earl of Kellworth, whom she fell in love with at first sight. They married; he brought her to his estate Kellworth - assuring her that there were plenty of funds to keep her safe; then left to fight the war against Napoleon. Well, she figured he lied about the funds and through selfless economizing she did her best at keeping his estate from crumbling around her and what few servants she could still afford to keep.<br /><br />Spenser Keenan, hadn't given much thought to the young timid girl he'd married and left behind. Staying alive through a brutal war was uppermost in his mind. He'd written home; received no letters from her, so naturally assumed all was well. Discovering how dire Emma's circumstances had been, and having her think him so lacking in honor, to have ignored her pleas for help was painful, and a hard pill to swallow. Not only had Emma blossomed into an exquisite flower of womanhood - but she seemed to despise him - even after she had saved his very life. More than anything Spence would have his work cut out for him, not only to bring her to his bed in truth, but in managing to stay alive to accomplish it, as more and more `accidents' against his person seemed to be occurring on a regular basis.<br /><br />-- When storytelling is told in such an emotionally charged way with twists and turns popping up regularly, the reader will find, as did I, that this is one book you must finish in one sitting. This author has impressed me since the beginning of her career and her latest offering is as absorbing and entertaining as I expected. The characters are cleverly crafted exposing their feelings to reveal them as real people that will remain with you long after the last page is turned. Emma was expertly crafted to prove that what doesn't kill you only makes you stronger, and her metamorphous from young and timid to a force to be reckoned with was marvelous. The sensuality was tastefully done and served up with enough spice to make it quite tasty. Oh yes, once more I highly encourage readers to pick up this most excellent read.<br /><br /> Marilyn (...)reveal them as real people that will remain with you long after the last page is turned. Emma was expertly crafted to prove that what doesn't kill you only makes you stronger, and her metamorphous from young and timid to a force to be reckoned with was marvelous. The sensuality was tastefully done and served up with enough spice to make it quite tasty. Oh yes, once more I highly encourage readers to pick up this most excellent read.       Marilyn (...)	2005-10-01
37069:US	45284807	R1ZARECTCUO91B	0425203972	542443651	Passion	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Thrillingly Erotic and Poignant	Passion is the name of heroine in this book, a woman who after three years of marriage, and two years of mourning hadn't ever experienced anything even remotely resembling her name.  That was soon to change when she was rescued from a falling palm tree by a stranger, who after setting her back on her feet began to walk away, but as Passion stared at his back; he turned; their eyes met and `bam'!  From the moment they locked eyes, this scorcher of a sensual debut effort by a first time author (who by the way, just shot up to the top of MY `auto-buy  list) didn't let up on the sensually erotic action.  I can't tell you how many \\"Oh, my Gods\\" came out of my mouth in the first few chapters of this book, neither did they stop as I eagerly devoured this book in one sitting.<br /><br />Totally intoxicated by the young woman he'd rescued, Mark Randolph Hawkmore, Earl of Langley discovered a rare treasure; a woman whose beauty and passion inflamed and matched his own.  Beginning with an unbelievable graphically told tryst that very day behind a screen in London's Crystal Palace; more assignations would follow and the eroticism and sensuality just didn't stop.<br /><br />Initially Mark was not what you'd call hero material.  One finds later in the story, that Mark, was a victim; there to observe a woman that his mother was pushing him to wed in a blackmail scheme that would hurt the only person he cared for, his brother.  Yet, as Marks assignations with Passion continued, our embittered hero discovered that here was a woman whom he couldn't forget, nor did he want to, and finally, he experienced  both the unbearable heartache and absolute joy that comes hand in hand when you admit to love.<br /><br />Not only was this a perfectly sensual and erotic read, but it also turned into a fabulously emotional one as well. So much so, that I found myself reaching for tissues  several times.  This author packs a wallop both with her intensely deep sensuality while pulling on the readers heartstrings as well with the poignant emotions she wove into this incredible debut.  Whether they were the major or minor characters, the author charged them all with such passion and emotion they all sprang to life in an absolutely marvelous tableau. Bravo, bravo, bravo Ms. Valdez - you've written a marvelous debut both thrillingly erotic and poignant, and I can't wait for the sequels!ell with the poignant emotions she wove into this incredible debut.  Whether they were the major or minor characters, the author charged them all with such passion and emotion they all sprang to life in an absolutely marvelous tableau. Bravo, bravo, bravo Ms. Valdez - you've written a marvelous debut both thrillingly erotic and poignant, and I can't wait for the sequels!	2005-09-23
42599:US	45284807	R28UYIZ9K73FCC	0425204448	208241112	The Last Bride (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Ghosts + Reincarnation +Time Travel = Solid Entertainment	In modern day New Orleans, Claire Peltier has just tossed aside a perfectly good fianc&eacute; - a man who loved her, treated her very well, but whom she just couldn't feel the passion that she knew deep in her soul belonged to the man who haunted her dreams.  Along with being haunted by dreams, Claire was also visited rather regularly by a ghost.  Only now the ghost seemed to be giving Claire clues that would send her on a journey to unlock the visions from her dreams.  Traveling to France, Claire followed her instincts and her ghost, and found herself transported back to the Middle Ages where she came face to face with the man of her dreams.<br /><br />Aiden Delacroix was a lonely tortured man.  His sense of loss over the death of his mistress and wife that were attributed to the hauntings of a vengeful ghost had left its mark.  With no wife or heir, and no woman even considering marriage to him; his fight to pass on his families' legacy would be for naught, as he would surely lose his lands to his enemy. As a last resort, Aidan went on a pilgrimage to a sacred shrine where there appeared before him a woman so beautiful Aiden impulsively proposed marriage.<br /><br />While Claire recognized Aiden as the man of her dreams, his very touch brought a vision of such heartache that she refused his offer. Then again, she wasn't quite cognizant that she'd been transported back in time, and thought him a bit crazy.  When it did finally dawn on her that she wasn't in her modern time, she agreed to let him help her. Soon after she would realize that she'd been brought back not only to answer questions regarding her own mysterious longings, but to right a wrong and regain a love that was meant to be.<br /><br />*** This was a full-bodied, fully satisfying tale of time travel, reincarnation, and a heady romance all rolled into one totally mesmerizing read that will capture you from the very first pages.  Claire and Aiden were extremely well-drawn.  Aiden was wonderful, even though he sensed that Claire was different -- his acceptance, kindness and gentle ways were the stuff dreams are made of - in essence a perfect hero!  In this second chance at a love that was meant to be that transcended all time, Landry pulled out all the stops and presented her readers with a perfectly wonderful read.  Highly recommended! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---was different -- his acceptance, kindness and gentle ways were the stuff dreams are made of - in essence a perfect hero!  In this second chance at a love that was meant to be that transcended all time, Landry pulled out all the stops and presented her readers with a perfectly wonderful read.  Highly recommended! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-09-21
51386:US	45284807	R2STZ4V5BNZS1C	0312341385	169179100	The Borgia Bride: A Novel	Books	4	104	107	N	N	Gives New Meaning to the term DYSFUNCTIONAL family	Most fans of historical novels love history, and as a result I'm sure most have some idea of the depravation that was inherent in the `Borgia' family line, especially that of one I'd always thought of as the most depraved - Lucrezia.  Well, I admit to my ignorance.  Though Lucrezia was far from innocent - her father, the very decadent Rodrigo Borgia  aka  POPE ALEXANDER VI and her brothers Juan and Cesare were the true monsters.<br /><br />The Borgia bride is a powerfully historical novel told in the first person from the point of view of Princess Sancha of Aragon, a young woman whose father would, for political reasons, marry her to one of the Pope's acknowledged sons, the youngest Borgia, Jofre.  While Sancha was spoilt and pampered as the daughter of King Alfonso II of Naples, her worth was calculated only by what advantageous marriage could benefit her family, with no concern over happiness or love.  Married to the youngest Borgia, Jofre, they were eventually summoned to Rome, by Jofre's father.  It would be in Rome where Sancha met Cesare Borgia.  From the moment their eyes met Sancha would finally come to understand passion and a line from Plutarch that she, had once mocked, \\" I fear, yet hope; I burn, and I am ice.\\"  Sancha would discover an all consuming passion falling hopelessly in love, but she would eventually see that passion turn to hatred as she came to see Cesare for the coldly calculating and depraved power hungry murderer that he was.<br /><br />***  This took me a long time to read; not so much for the length (500+ pages) but more so for the time I took to look up actual historical events, persons, and whether Sancha was real (or a figment of the authors imagination). It explores the tenuous friendship Sancha cultivated knowing how dangerous Lucrezia could be whose jealousy and possessiveness of her father's and brother's affection was legendary.  While the story was set during a fascinating historical era of Italian and Papal history with the infamous Borgia family center stage, it provides a fascinating view of the decadence and what could be construed as a prime example of the term dysfunctional family.  Did I like and enjoy this book?  Yes, most definitely!  It was fascinating and I would recommend it to any lover of historical books, but while there were some very graphic sexual encounters, it was not what I could term a romance novel.<br /><br />[...]orgia family center stage, it provides a fascinating view of the decadence and what could be construed as a prime example of the term dysfunctional family.  Did I like and enjoy this book?  Yes, most definitely!  It was fascinating and I would recommend it to any lover of historical books, but while there were some very graphic sexual encounters, it was not what I could term a romance novel.    [...]	2005-09-16
65799:US	45284807	R3Z88H3LC1RMP	0451216369	661966700	Dedication (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A Mature Intelligent and  Sensual Read!!!	Twenty years ago, 17-year-old French &eacute;migr&eacute; aristocrat, Fabienne Argonac Craigmont had fallen in love with the rakish Adam Ashworth. She'd given him her innocence, he'd given her his heart, and both had been so cruelly manipulated that when they met years later the sting of betrayal and rejection would make that surprise reunion an uncomfortable and awkward meeting. Adam is now a widowed, respectable country gentleman, summoned to town to discover that his ward and godson seemed to have formed an unsuitable alliance with a young female artist. Fabienne who had become a sophisticated patroness of the arts, sponsored the young female artist who was her newest prot&eacute;g&eacute; and the object of Adams' disparagement.<br /><br />In spite of the popularity of her salons Fabienne was at heart, a lonely widow and wanting to add another to her salon began a correspondence with the highly popular yet reclusive author, Mrs. Ravenswood. During the course of their correspondence, Fabienne grew close to the woman and disclosed 'secrets of her heart'. When she set out to find and meet Mrs. Ravenswood, she finds instead an evasive Adam Ashworth and concludes that the authoress must be Adam's mistress. While subsequent meetings with Adam left Fabienne torn between mistrust and longing, Adam agonized over how to confess the charade he'd initiated and which now threatened any possible reconciliation with the woman he now knew held his heart.<br /><br />*** Whew, finally a novel that puts to rest the theory that lust and highly sensual encounters belonged solely to the young. Bravo to this author for showing us that `mature' does not signify dead! Not only has she presented a refreshingly creative (not to mention pretty darn sensual) plot but a very well written story featuring two complex individuals who will elicit several stages of reader emotions from humor, to anger and tears as the author peels back the layers of their past and present lives. Additionally, with a fair amount of likeable secondary characters one can only hope to hear that some may get their own story, like Adam's widowed daughter Babs. Simmering with sensuality, this original debut novel is certainly one that I can HIGHLY RECOMMEND for a most entertaining read! --- Marilyn, for [...]---cters one can only hope to hear that some may get their own story, like Adam's widowed daughter Babs. Simmering with sensuality, this original debut novel is certainly one that I can HIGHLY RECOMMEND for a most entertaining read! --- Marilyn, for [...]---	2005-09-08
65918:US	45284807	R3QEQPQYKRCFNW	0060751967	521051768	How to Marry a Millionaire Vampire (Love at Stake, Book 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great Start to a New Vampire Series!	Dentist Shanna Whelan is a woman with problems - she's in a federal witness protection program and working in a 24 hour dental clinic on the graveyard shift.  On top of that, after witnessing a brutal and bloody crime, she can no longer function well as a dentist - fainting at the mere sight of blood.  She needs to stay hidden and normally, she sat around by herself with very few patients coming by during the middle of the night.  The most dangerous part of the job would be dying of boredom!  With the ring of the phone, Shanna's peaceful world was about to come tumbling down - she'd been found by the bad guys!  It couldn't get much worse but after locking the doors and getting ready to run, in walked Roman Draganesti - a vampire with to his mind, an even bigger problem. He'd lost a fang after biting something he shouldn't have and had to get it reattached before dawn and his natural healing ability closed the wound forever.<br /><br />After convincing Shanna that he wasn't there to kill her - showing his bloody mouth and having her promptly pass out - Roman spirited her out, before the hit men busted in.  In Shanna, Roman had discovered a mortal who could block him out as he tried to manipulate her mind, and though SHE wasn't quite sure what HE was - other than a little bit odd, and enormously sexy - Shanna thought here was a man who she felt safe with and he just might be able to save her life.  Then again, maybe NOT, after she realized that the `wolf tooth' she had re-implanted was really a vampire's fang!<br /><br />***  This was an appealing, sometimes funny, and sometimes serious paranormal that I found enormously entertaining.  The lead couple was very likeable with the requisite sexual chemistry between the two, YET the plot was robust enough not that it didn't have to rely on heavy sensuality to keep the readers attention.  Roman, was not only one sexy vampire, but a brilliant scientist whose creation of synthetic blood saved not only mortals lives but kept vampires satisfied as well as he tried to create a world where vamps and mortals could live together in peace.  All of the characters from the leads, to a plethora of secondary characters, their backgrounds, and motivations were expertly drawn and kept the action fresh and lively.  I found myself chuckling out loud over the sexy double entendres, and totally enjoying `vampire sex'.  This was a true delight and I'm looking forward to seeing what comes next in this highly entertaining vampire series. ---- Marilyn, for [...] ---sfied as well as he tried to create a world where vamps and mortals could live together in peace.  All of the characters from the leads, to a plethora of secondary characters, their backgrounds, and motivations were expertly drawn and kept the action fresh and lively.  I found myself chuckling out loud over the sexy double entendres, and totally enjoying `vampire sex'.  This was a true delight and I'm looking forward to seeing what comes next in this highly entertaining vampire series. ---- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-09-08
79319:US	45284807	R2ISES1LWP966R	0446616095	112549709	A Lady's Guide to Rakes (Warner Forever)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Caskie Scores Big on Laughs And Plot!	Finally, I see in this third novel by newcomer Kathryn Caskie the growth and experience needed in her becoming a fine regency author.  Hanging in there, I've read all three now and consider this a comparable effort to her exceptional debut of RULES OF ENGAGEMENT after the less than stellar LADY IN WAITING.<br /><br />In sticking with her successful premise of having the two great aunts, Letitia and Viola providing additional comic relief to the antics of the primary character, Meredith Merriweather, as she tries to produce a lady's guide to avoiding heartache by a rake, the author loads up with plenty of ammunition and delivers this with an amusing bang!  Meredith is a wonderful heroine; one that the reader will genuinely like, understand and feel sympathy for after having stood up and borne the embarrassment of having been jilted at the alter and ruined by a rake that had no principles of having ruined an innocent in his search for a wealthy heiress.<br /><br />As therapy in overcoming her heartbreak and shame, Meredith set out to compile a guide in proving her theory of a rakes behavior plus save other innocents from a similar fate.  Meredith herself was determined to never again fall prey to a rake, she'd set her cap for the very staid and respectable Mr. Chilton, who'd been courting her for some time.  As the final chapter was looming closer she had selected the most notorious rake and scoundrel as her `scientific experiment', Lord Alexander Lansing.  Though, she'd heard that he professed to have turned over a new leaf and was now `reformed' she wanted to prove, once and for all that `once a rake, always a rake!'<br /><br />From an amusing scene of having the very lovely, Meredith Merriweather fall into his very lap from a hot air ballon; and, having had his fathers ultimatum to reform and marry, or be cut off of funds; Alex was about to prove Meredith's theory wrong, and prove to her that a rake could reform and only a rake would make her the very BEST husband and not the very staid and respectable Mr. Chilton.<br /><br />___ Skillfully, Caskie has taken an old and used theme of the `reformed rake' and given it a fresh new slant in this delightful latest novel in the Featherton sisters' saga. The writing is well done, well researched and if I spotted perhaps a couple of instances that I thought leaned towards a phrase or two that seemed out of context with the period, I can overlook it for the pure enjoyment of a very entertaining read.  With a background of colorful and fun secondary characters on top of the very well-matched lead couple, Caskie scores big with this latest entry! [...]staid and respectable Mr. Chilton.    ___ Skillfully, Caskie has taken an old and used theme of the `reformed rake' and given it a fresh new slant in this delightful latest novel in the Featherton sisters' saga. The writing is well done, well researched and if I spotted perhaps a couple of instances that I thought leaned towards a phrase or two that seemed out of context with the period, I can overlook it for the pure enjoyment of a very entertaining read.  With a background of colorful and fun secondary characters on top of the very well-matched lead couple, Caskie scores big with this latest entry! [...]	2005-09-01
79633:US	45284807	R349N8M06RIA0	0743470893	474240331	Have Glass Slippers, Will Travel (Pocket Books Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Whimsical, sensual, and laugh out loud funny!	In this contemporary gem of a Cinderella like story, Katy Orville, an unemployed tech writer, has traveled to London hoping to meet her own real life `prince charming'.<br /><br />On her very first day she meets up with a hunky, yet slightly unkempt Londoner dressed in a kilt, whom after a misconstrued conversation SHE pegs as a farmer. Uh, oh -- not her `prince charming'.  When she next meets him on the steps of a church, HE ASSUMES she has been invited to the same wedding he's attending and so she innocently, grabs the perfect opportunity to crash the wedding as the hunk's date.<br /><br />Through a series of miss-adventures and mistaken identities, with Katy herself being mistaken for a high-tech heiress, she gets a real taste of the highborn aristocrats of British society.  Though she keeps running into the very attractive Will Eland, her friend,  the `organic farmer',  try as she might she finds it difficult to fight the attraction.  When the truth finally comes out on both Will and Katy's true identities - it takes the stroke of what seems like a `fairy godmother' to help them find a fairy tale ending!<br /><br />*** Is there anything more I can say to entice you other than this was a totally delightful read?  Both Katy and Will were immensely real and completely likeable, including Will's dog Sadie.  Whimsical, sensual, laugh out loud funny, and sweetly romantic are all adjectives one can use in describing this `must read' for those looking for a wonderful modern day romantic tale.  This is recommended reading for the Cinderella in all of us.  You simply will not be able to put it down!<br />[...]	2005-09-01
79805:US	45284807	R2N9QDINONIGFI	0446616265	718605181	Out of the Night (Night Slayer, Book 1)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Totally Engrossing Paranormal - MUST READ!	One can say in truth that this is a new author in the ever increasing Paranormal genre; and one can also say that in this genre - make room for a rising star, for if this author's future offerings can sustain the excitement and thrill she generated from this, her initial offering - she is well on her way to a very successful career.<br /><br />Lanie Weber wasn't afraid of danger (maybe flying) - but as a volunteer fire-fighter and EMT she could face most situations without batting an eye.  Needing to put some closure to the heart-breaking news of her father's death - Lanie knew she had to see for herself that the scientist father she adored was truly dead at the research center he worked at deep in the Amazon jungle.  The only way to get there was via a private charter but when she saw the plane it was with great trepidation that she boarded the plane at all.<br /><br />Mac Knight, the veteran pilot her `Uncle Charles' had set her up to fly her into the Amazon jungle, then drive her to the secret research lab was more than just the most gorgeous guy she'd ever seen and more than a simple pilot.  A retired Navy Seal - he'd worked special ops before for `Uncle Charles', but nothing could have prepared him for Lanie, or for the face off with a creature that belonged only to legends.  When Mac was attacked and bitten, Lanie using her EMT skills was able to keep him alive to battle another day.  As Lanie's feelings for Mac grew so did her suspicions that the kiss she so desired would grant her more than she ever bargained for.<br /><br />*** Whew - this was one very quick read as it was not a book one could start without finishing in one sitting.  The lead couple was well defined, extremely genuine and likeable. Along with the thrills, chills, twists and turns of the suspense plot the underlying sensualness gave it an even more satisfying and lasting flavor.  The reader will find this story to be a well-written, totally engrossing, and feature a very satisfying romance that brings to light some new twists on the vampire stories. I highly recommend all you  Paranormal junkies to get out there and get yourselves introduced to this new kid in town!<br />[...]me new twists on the vampire stories. I highly recommend all you  Paranormal junkies to get out there and get yourselves introduced to this new kid in town!       [...]	2005-09-01
80278:US	45284807	RL0LDUSJ5MVCJ	0373293690	257650411	The Laird's Lady	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Sensual and Stimulating Medieval Romance ! Hot!	Malcolm McNair and his brothers, were battling for the Beaumont keep when Malcolm was stunned when a flaming arrow struck his shield. Looking up to the battlements he spied the archer and was amazed to discover a bewitching wraithlike vision surrounded by a golden halo of hair he could only liken to a fairy queen, hefting a cross-bow with all the fierce determination of an Amazon warrior.<br /><br />Looking down from her perch, Lady Rosalind of Beaumont was determined to hold her keep, and protect her people from the heathen Scots, though noting that the burly Scot leader assaulting her keep was a most magnificent and handsome man. She is English, and attraction or not, she'd lost enough to the barbarian Scot's and would lose no more, even though Malcolm's merest touch set her mind and body on fire. Nevertheless, for Malcolm,  though he might conquer the keep, winning the heart and hand of the fair Lady Rosalind would be the greatest accomplishment of all.<br /><br />*** This was a stimulating medieval read with a delightful lead couple. Rosalind grabbed me right from the start with her courage and `do what you gotta do' attitude - especially with her `where the heck is a man, when you need him' statement as the Scot's began their assault! Malcolm - gosh who couldn't fall in love with a handsome burly Scot who can forgive a she-devil who stabs him; yet makes sure her rose garden isn't destroyed as he rebuilds his newly captured  keep! While I did get a bit frustrated with Rosalind and her general hatred of the Scot's, the author painted a perfectly acceptable reason for the anguish that Rosalind felt as she tried to fight her attraction to Malcolm. Overall, the pacing of the story was even and well sustained; and the manner in which the author allowed the story to be told was well done as well; but best  of all  the sensuality was deliciously steamy. With well-defined secondary characters and situations, this was an enormously entertaining read from beginning to end that I heartily recommend.to end that I heartily recommend.  <br />	2005-09-01
80502:US	45284807	R1LC67KTAADSGR	045121627X	352696085	Unmasked	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Henley Strikes Pure Gold !	Setting - Nottingham Castle, 1644 -- At the age of thirteen, Robert Greysteel Montgomery was not at all enamored by the seven year Elizabeth Cavendish he was being betrothed to. Though he did think she had the face of an angel he would also, on that day vow, she was the imp of Satan as he observed firsthand her precocious-ness and later as she announced she was changing her name to Velvet and would no longer respond to the name Elizabeth.<br /><br />Velvet, at age seven, wanted only to marry Robert's best friend Charles, who would one day be King of England, but her mother was able to convince her to behave at the betrothal and vowed that Robert would protect and always keep her safe. That seemed to placate her and the betrothal was signed and sealed.<br /><br />Thirteen long and tumultuous years later, Greysteel has been operating as a double agent working to restore King Charles II to the throne. Velvet and her family had been living abroad having lost their properties, as had most Royalists loyal to the Charles.  When Velvet returns to England they are reunited and Greysteel is immediately ready to marry Velvet.  Though Velvet is definitely attracted to the handsome cavalier, she isn't quite so ardent in her affections - still holding a special place in her heart for Charles. Greysteel, on the other hand, a master strategist, approaches the courting of Velvet as another battle to win - but though Velvet may allow herself to be caught, her heart would be another matter.<br /><br />*** I am once again in awe at the brilliant way that this author can weave fiction into and around the rich historical background that she sets her characters into. Greysteel and Velvet are both crafted as headstrong individuals portrayed bigger than life and their story is filled with love and a powerful passion.  Make no mistake - Velvet the precocious child who needed her arse tanned grew to a be force to be reckoned with and it would be Greysteel alone who had the insight to realize that behind Velvet's precocious behavior and willful defiance masked the delicate and fragile vulnerability that he came to love.  The author depicts that while their passions were all consuming, it wasn't enough, as she gives us that one glorious and defining moment where both are willing to risk all to prove their love for one another in this marvelous romantic epic.  Henley once again does a masterful job in transporting the reader smack dab in the middle of the time period, enfolding all the drama, and all the passion in her characters that only this true master of the historical genre can create. Once again, Henley strikes pure gold in UNMASKED.  - Marilyn, for [...] ---ealize that behind Velvet's precocious behavior and willful defiance masked the delicate and fragile vulnerability that he came to love.  The author depicts that while their passions were all consuming, it wasn't enough, as she gives us that one glorious and defining moment where both are willing to risk all to prove their love for one another in this marvelous romantic epic.  Henley once again does a masterful job in transporting the reader smack dab in the middle of the time period, enfolding all the drama, and all the passion in her characters that only this true master of the historical genre can create. Once again, Henley strikes pure gold in UNMASKED.  - Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />  <br />	2005-09-01
86132:US	45284807	R34JB23CBW2GCT	0060597291	841743518	Love According to Lily	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Sizzling and Seductive Victorian	Young Lily Langdon was raised in a somber household.  Her parents' marriage was not a happy one, yet somehow, Lily grew up with spirit, along with a childhood adoration for her brothers life long best friend, the Earl of Whitby, Edward Wallis.  Whitby was her hero, and he in turn had a great affection for his friend's little sister which was one of the reasons he hadn't noticed her as a woman all grown up.  To him she was still considered as another `little sister' and not the spirited woman she'd become.  Additionally, Whitby enjoyed his rakish lifestyle with no entanglements and the freedom to do as he pleased.<br /><br />At the annual shooting party that her brother James and wife Sophia hosted, Lily's mother was working hard at maneuvering a proper match between Lily and the youngest son of an Earl.  Sophia knowing of Lily's feelings for Whitby suggested that Lily use her feminine wiles to make Whitby take notice of her as a woman.  As Lily's campaign towards seduction began showing promise, tragedy struck as Whitby's fast lifestyle seemed to catch up with him and he was struck down with a mysterious illness.  As Whitby, hovered between life and death, and the prognosis of his illness seemed dire.  Lily resolved that she would do whatever she had in the time that was left to win his heart, and provide him an heir before his title passed to his hated cousin Magnus.<br /><br />Whitby's honor raged against his body's reactions to Lily's seductive offer, but honor be damned - Lily was too passionate to resist. They married intending to make the most of the time that was left to them, then as mysteriously as it had came on, the illness went into a remission - Whitby would live! Lily's joy was marred over concern that Whitby would now feel trapped especially as she now suspected that she was pregnant.  Whitby always knew that at some time he'd settle down, but thinking he was dying he entered into the marriage thinking he wouldn't be giving up his freedom. Now, knowing he would live he had was finally realizing that it wasn't the freedom he was clinging to so much as learning to overcome the dread of opening his heart to love.<br /><br />*** This was another terrific Victorian romance from an author who has the ability to break down her characters souls and feed their emotional struggles onto the pages.  The reader will feel the despair, the heartbreak, passion and the joy of Whitby and Lily in this very excellent character driven romance as Lily, thinking her love alone would be enough for both of them struggled while waiting for Whitby to discover the truth of what she knew lay in his heart.  Lily and Whitby were first introduced in the first of MacLean's Victorian era series TO MARRY THE DUKE - and readers should be thrilled to find their story at last.  MacLean continues to offer sizzling and seductive romance with a masterful touch.<br />[...]e he had was finally realizing that it wasn't the freedom he was clinging to so much as learning to overcome the dread of opening his heart to love.     *** This was another terrific Victorian romance from an author who has the ability to break down her characters souls and feed their emotional struggles onto the pages.  The reader will feel the despair, the heartbreak, passion and the joy of Whitby and Lily in this very excellent character driven romance as Lily, thinking her love alone would be enough for both of them struggled while waiting for Whitby to discover the truth of what she knew lay in his heart.   Lily and Whitby were first introduced in the first of MacLean's Victorian era series TO MARRY THE DUKE - and readers should be thrilled to find their story at last.  MacLean continues to offer sizzling and seductive romance with a masterful touch.   [...]	2005-08-29
89702:US	45284807	R1SKESK9PAYTVK	0976913216	677307066	A Pirate, a Secret and Rose	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Intriguing Location Adventure and Romance	Rose Flowers residing in Massachusetts with her father, Harvard University Professor of Botany, Dr. Flowers, and twin sister Violet, was quite happy with her life.  Never happier than when book in hand, she could engage in her favorite occupation - reading and dreaming of the prince that would one day carry her off across the desert some day, or helping her father grow his flowers. Therefore, when her father made the announcement that would change their lives, Rose, usually the most amiable of the twins was upset.  They would be leaving Massachusetts shortly for Hawaii, where her father was being sent by President James Monroe to head a new research group to study the island's flora and fauna.  Rose, who had never envied her sister Violet, who already had a fianc&eacute;, sent on ahead to Hawaii as her fathers assistant; thought how on earth she would ever find the eligible man of her dreams among the natives on that remote island?<br /><br />Days before they were to set sail on Neptune's Chariot, Rose found herself lost along the wharves of the Boston Harbor and accosted by a group of nasty scoundrels when an exotically dark handsome man, came to her rescue.  He carried her to the beach where she memorably touched his lips then passed out.  When her family came rushing to her aid after discovering the bodies of the thugs her hero had dispatched, DJ her hero had disappeared.<br /><br />As luck would have it, Rose's handsome hero, Abdeldjelil (DJ) would be aboard the pirate ship Ocean Chameleon that closely followed hers, intending to seize the precious cargo rumored to be aboard.  Within weeks of their sailing the two ships came in sight of one another as a ferociously surreal storm battered and pushed both ships towards a group of islands which were later determined to be within the mysterious Bermuda triangle.  Bone weary and desolate, adrift and at the lowest point in her life, Rose discovered the battered and bruised body of DJ. In saving his life, they would discover a passionate love, and together face the dangers that lurked amongst their new island paradise.<br /><br />*** This was a very nice debut novel that had a very original plot full of adventure, lovely sensuality, wonderful and charismatic characters, and a bit of  humor.  Rose was exactly the type of person I'd want to be shipwrecked on an island with, strong, intelligent and resourceful; but I'd have to drown Violet - the self proclaimed princess!  DJ was developed to a point - dreamy and delicious, highly sensual, but the intimacy that could have been built up in revealing his piracy background to his soul mate was missing leaving me a little letdown in the romance - my ideal of the perfect romance being one of complete openness and trust.  The secondary characters were plentiful; the villain truly despicable; and some, extremely interesting, i.e. Father Brown having so many knives hidden on his person.  I was truly surprised when the author missed the opportunity to capitalize and develop some of them more fully into the fabric of the story. This new author shows great promise in the historical romance genre and I will definitely be looking for her next book, A PHARAOH, A SPELL AND JADE.  -- Marilyn, for [...]iscover a passionate love, and together face the dangers that lurked amongst their new island paradise.  <br /> <br />*** This was a very nice debut novel that had a very original plot full of adventure, lovely sensuality, wonderful and charismatic characters, and a bit of  humor.  Rose was exactly the type of person I'd want to be shipwrecked on an island with, strong, intelligent and resourceful; but I'd have to drown Violet - the self proclaimed princess!  DJ was developed to a point - dreamy and delicious, highly sensual, but the intimacy that could have been built up in revealing his piracy background to his soul mate was missing leaving me a little letdown in the romance - my ideal of the perfect romance being one of complete openness and trust.   The secondary characters were plentiful; the villain truly despicable; and some, extremely interesting, i.e. Father Brown having so many knives hidden on his person.  I was truly surprised when the author missed the opportunity to capitalize and develop some of them more fully into the fabric of the story. This new author shows great promise in the historical romance genre and I will definitely be looking for her next book, A PHARAOH, A SPELL AND JADE.  -- Marilyn, for [...]   <br />	2005-08-27
107253:US	45284807	R2AFRXCMF4EHRN	0515137936	574517535	Man of My Dreams (Jove Romance)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Pretty Decent Collection - Kenyon Rocks!	Fire and Ice - Sherrilyn Kenyon ---  Adron was a scarred bitter man living with a broken body, and wanted only to continually drown himself in liquor to block out the world.  Livia Typpa Vista was a princess, expecting to forge an alliance between families she was to be wed to a lecherous man twice her fathers age and knew her only way out was to lose her virginity before the court's physicians examined her and announced her fit for marriage.  In desperation, Livia was determined to lose that which once had been precious to her and Adron was to be the lucky recipient of that gift.  Discovering that inside Adron beat a loving heart, Livia was ready to sacrifice even her life to save the man she'd come to love. --- Proving that when written by a great wordsmith, even short stories can be emotionally fabulous and endearing. Loved this! --- Rate (5*)<br /><br />Daydream Believer - Maggie Shayne --- Waking from a dream, shaking, and in a cold sweat, Megan Rose felt that finally she would be able to do some good.  Having had `visions' all her life - she knew that this time someone would just have to believe in her. She phoned the police department to report where they could find the missing woman whose picture was flashing across the TV screen that had gone missing.  The police chief didn't quite believe in `psychics' - took her information, and gave nothing away that she was `dead on' in everything she told him.  Instead he assigned detective Sam Sheridan to find out what he could about her - thinking she was somehow connected to the murder/rapist stalking young women in the area.  Megan took one look at the handsome police officer and knew him - his was the face she'd been dreaming of since she was 12 years old, and somehow her destiny was to save him. ---- This was an exceptional story with two very likeable leads. Megan's psychic connections and hard hitting visions were terrific vehicles pulling the reader in and creating a fast and moving storyline along with a  tastefully done sensual romance where Megan almost makes the ultimate sacrifice for the `man in her dreams'! ---  Rate (5*)<br /><br />Shocking Lucy - Suzanne Forster --- This was about Lucy, a very successful mediator who was about to marry a man who fit `just about all her of the qualifications' of a list she'd made in high school.  Two weeks before the wedding while shopping for a wedding gift for her groom to be she accidentally meets Noah Hightower, who for some reason wants to change her mind about getting married.  --- The beginning was a little slow, and the heroine did not endear herself to me. Noah on the other hand was a definite hottie, and I loved the dialogs along with the surprise twist at the end.  --- Rate (4*)<br /><br />Midsummer Nights Madness - Virginia Kantra --- In a modern day version of the 1729 ballad of Tam Lin - thirty-six year old Janet, the heroine of this story, wanders through a forest only to come across a man who looks just like an old boyfriend who left her 14 years ago - only it couldn't be him looking like a 22 year old, or could it?  Ross has been caught in a fairy trap. With the assistance of a kindly leprechaun, Puck, who reveals the secret to Janet of how to save Ross, she would have to decide if she would risk her heart in saving him only to have him walk away from her again. --- Interesting re-telling of an old tale. Very short quick read - sensual.  --- Rate (3*)<br /><br />Overall Rating of Anthology - (4*)tastefully done sensual romance where Megan almost makes the ultimate sacrifice for the `man in her dreams'! ---  Rate (5*) <br /> <br />Shocking Lucy - Suzanne Forster --- This was about Lucy, a very successful mediator who was about to marry a man who fit `just about all her of the qualifications' of a list she'd made in high school.  Two weeks before the wedding while shopping for a wedding gift for her groom to be she accidentally meets Noah Hightower, who for some reason wants to change her mind about getting married.  --- The beginning was a little slow, and the heroine did not endear herself to me. Noah on the other hand was a definite hottie, and I loved the dialogs along with the surprise twist at the end.  --- Rate (4*) <br /> <br />Midsummer Nights Madness - Virginia Kantra --- In a modern day version of the 1729 ballad of Tam Lin - thirty-six year old Janet, the heroine of this story, wanders through a forest only to come across a man who looks just like an old boyfriend who left her 14 years ago - only it couldn't be him looking like a 22 year old, or could it?  Ross has been caught in a fairy trap. With the assistance of a kindly leprechaun, Puck, who reveals the secret to Janet of how to save Ross, she would have to decide if she would risk her heart in saving him only to have him walk away from her again. --- Interesting re-telling of an old tale. Very short quick read - sensual.  --- Rate (3*) <br /> <br />Overall Rating of Anthology - (4*)  <br /> <br />	2005-08-17
122319:US	45284807	R2K0DMJEKONPST	0743471067	25962070	My Wicked Highlander: The MacDonell Brides Trilogy (Pocket Books Romance the MacDonnell Brides Trilogy)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Breathtakingly Exciting - Magic as well as Adventure!	This was the first of the MacDonell Brides trilogy but I read it last, proving that it was a completely stand-alone novel as were book #2, MY DEVILISH SCOTSMAN and book #3, MY SHADOW WARRIOR, and it also proved to be just as exciting, enthralling and captivating as it's counterparts.<br /><br />Set in Scotland in the latter part of the 16th century amidst the frenzy of finding and burning witches during its height, Sir Philip Kilpatrick was sent on mission to England to escort back to Scotland  the eldest daughter of his good friend and foster father, Alan MacDonnell.  Her father whose wife, had been burned at the stake for witchcraft had for his daughters safety's sake sent Isobel, away twelve years ago.  Now at the age of 24, he had arranged for her marriage to the Earl of Kincreag, and sent his trusted friend to fetch her home to her betrothed.  Isobel, a witch herself, while thrilled to be going home to be reunited with her father and sisters, had for the most part been left to do as she pleased and become indignant at the constraints Sir Philip imposed on her movements.<br /><br />Had it not been for the love and close friendship Sir Philip felt for her father, he would not have subjected himself to fetching what he imagined was the spoiled daughter of his friend.  A man of honor, Philip was determined to keep Isobel safe as they traveled a dangerous path through a land filled with fear and suspicion as Isobel would innocently use her powers of insight to help strangers along the way, endangering not only herself but her companions as well.  Sensing the torment of Philip Isobel became determined to use her magic in solving the mystery that tortured his soul, and he soon found that he was reluctant to deliver the `little witch' to another man, as she had completely charmed her way into his heart.<br /><br />*** I found this to be as breathtakingly exciting as the other two books in the trilogy.  Isobel is both an original and refreshing heroine, crafted as both strong yet innocently trusting and needy. Philip was the ideal hero - handsome, strong, capable, yet having that tortured background and needing that one person (Isobel) with the ability to free him from his torments.  Hollings fills the tale with a plethora of strong and significant secondary characters to give the story rich historical details, and sprinkles in  a strong flavor of paranormal fantasy to give it even more spice.  The romance is very sensual as both the protagonists fight their feelings in not bringing dishonor to themselves or their families by giving in to the intensity of their attraction.  This latest trilogy is surely one that will capture your imagination amidst exciting tales of magic, adventure, betrayals, and passionate love stories that will live in the reader's minds long after the final pages are turned.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---as both strong yet innocently trusting and needy. Philip was the ideal hero - handsome, strong, capable, yet having that tortured background and needing that one person (Isobel) with the ability to free him from his torments.  Hollings fills the tale with a plethora of strong and significant secondary characters to give the story rich historical details, and sprinkles in  a strong flavor of paranormal fantasy to give it even more spice.  The romance is very sensual as both the protagonists fight their feelings in not bringing dishonor to themselves or their families by giving in to the intensity of their attraction.  This latest trilogy is surely one that will capture your imagination amidst exciting tales of magic, adventure, betrayals, and passionate love stories that will live in the reader's minds long after the final pages are turned.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-08-09
130578:US	45284807	R1GDQE1Z5AMCUJ	0373770774	815209559	A Fragile Trust (Hqn Romance)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Sensually Intense	Setting, Wessex, England 871 AD ---  It was a tumultuous period as Wessex, under King Alfred, was the last English stronghold resisting the raging Viking plunder.  There were those who pledged loyalty to the new twenty-four year old king struggling against the overwhelming forces of the enemy. Ash, English by birth, had been raised among Vikings, but sickened by the horror of the Viking pillaging was determined to prove his allegiance and was a favored warrior to the English king.  In the latest battle, an English traitor betrayed him and after all his comrades in arms had been slain, Ash was left for dead.<br /><br />Coming back from gathering wood in the forest Gemma spied Ash's body and, even though she thought him to be an enemy, risked everything to rescue the beautiful mysterious warrior. Gemma whose work as a jeweler had always been her all consuming passion was confused over her feelings and undeniable attraction for the wounded warrior.  When Ash began consorting with the enemy, she should have been frightened, yet she could not fear him. She feared herself -- what she felt for him -- and the heat that consumed her body when he was near. As Gemma perpetuated the lie of his presence in the Viking camp, the dangers grew day by day. When the traitor returned to reveal him his identity to the Vikings, Ash would make the ultimate sacrifice in risking his own life to save Gemma and her brother.<br /><br />*** While this is a very well written, original, and well-researched novel, it is VERY character driven in that there is NOT a lot of action or dialog.  What dialog there is - seems stilted because of the nature of the two characters who 1) do not trust one another, and 2) are uncomfortable with the intensity of the physical attraction between them. Gemma is a very original heroine, depicted as a master jeweler impoverished and forced to complete a commission for her captors who are holding her young brother as hostage.  Gemma's feelings seem to be examined much more readily than Ash as her thoughts describe what she'd like to say to Ash, but can't voice.  Ash is very secretive, totally enamored with the beautiful woman, and her talent, who saved his life but cognizant of the danger she'd be in, should the enemy discover who he was.  Additionally, Ash felt a inadequate due to guilt of having once been part of the Viking terror that he couldn't voice his feelings either. Though neither could voice their true feelings, the physical chemistry soon overcomes what words could not convey and the sensuality of the lovemaking is tastefully and beautifully done, built slowly, and occurring much later in the story.  I can definitely recommend this novel for the sheer beauty of the writing, and the love story, but warn readers that the pace is slow and if you're looking for an action read, you would probably find this frustratingly slow.<br /> (...)y than Ash as her thoughts describe what she'd like to say to Ash, but can't voice.  Ash is very secretive, totally enamored with the beautiful woman, and her talent, who saved his life but cognizant of the danger she'd be in, should the enemy discover who he was.  Additionally, Ash felt a inadequate due to guilt of having once been part of the Viking terror that he couldn't voice his feelings either. Though neither could voice their true feelings, the physical chemistry soon overcomes what words could not convey and the sensuality of the lovemaking is tastefully and beautifully done, built slowly, and occurring much later in the story.  I can definitely recommend this novel for the sheer beauty of the writing, and the love story, but warn readers that the pace is slow and if you're looking for an action read, you would probably find this frustratingly slow.     (...)	2005-08-04
132068:US	45284807	R3VLVSD4LXBMQH	0800730941	440806206	Giver of Roses (Guardians of Gadiel, Book 1)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	AWESOME - Emotionally Stunning - Totally Outstanding	GIVER OF ROSES will take your breath away!  - As a first time reader of this author's work, there are not enough adjectives I can think of that can adequately describe and do justice to this overwhelming, heart wrenching, and beautiful epic tale of good versus evil in the mythical land of Gadiel.  Often, throughout this emotional adventure I found myself reaching for tissues as the author brought to life a fictionalized tale that made the spiritual and romantic struggles so very real.<br /><br />It is the compelling tale of Vartan Karayan, royal heir of Gadiel, a good and honorable man struggling to save his people by fighting an invincible foe, overcoming physical obstacles, and when all seemed lost, discovering faith and learning to trust in a power that he'd never before believed in.<br /><br />Saving Gadiel's life and helping him would be Danae, a young captive woman who recognized the strength and goodness of Vartan, her former captor. Good, kind and loving she would not forsake her friends, her God, or her love of Vartan, as she struggled to find her place in the world.  When she ultimately answered a call to join the Dragonmaids her purpose seemed clear, but the price would be demanding -- requiring unselfish courage and a selfless overwhelming love.<br /><br />___Words cannot describe how amazing this dynamic tale is and after reading this - Book One in the Guardians of Gadiel series -- I will certainly be anxiously awaiting the next ones. All the secondary characters Ankine, Danae, Ra'id, Sharifah, Serpuhi, and Zagiri are fully developed, compelling, and have piqued my curiosity to discover how they will emerge as they each embrace their own heightened spiritual awareness.  Not only is this a well-written and inspirational novel but the authors writing style is pure, eloquent and mesmerizing in providing vivid imagery of sights, sounds and feelings as she transports the reader to heart tugging emotional heights. I very HIGHLY RECOMMEND this book.  [Marilyn, for [...]k.  [Marilyn, for [...]   <br />	2005-08-03
135402:US	45284807	RXW8TYDCIFZDG	0743465083	157647225	Highlander in Love	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Amusing and Sensual - Great Finale to Series	With HIGHLANDER IN LOVE  London gives the reader another witty and passionate tale in the  final conclusion to her Highlander series featuring the Lockhart family siblings.  Mared Lockhart had endured having to live with the knowledge that she'd most likely never wed, or for that matter, never love because of the consequences that would ultimately take the life of any man she would love enough to become betrothed.  Since most people knew of the curse, and the family finances were such that supporting Talla Dileas took all available funds, Mared had no opportunity to go to a  bigger city where there might be better prospects.<br /><br />Payton Douglas, Laird of Eilean Ross had known Mared Lockhart all her life, and even though she'd pummeled him quite nicely when at the age of ten he thought to take away the six year old Mared's sweetmeat - he still held her in esteem.  That same esteem, had over the years, grown and though Mared had grown up hating all things Douglas, Payton still held out hope.  When the Lockhart's borrowed three thousand pounds, he gave it with the understanding and agreement that should they not be able to pay, Mared would consent to be his wife.  The day the loan was to be repaid Mared refused to honor the debt - in spite of Payton's monumental effort to court her.  When all his efforts came to naught, Payton demanded she come to his home for a year in order to repay the debt and to serve as his housekeeper.  Much to Payton's dismay, he discovered that having the proud beauty under his very nose turned out to be more of a penance for him rather than for her, even as Mared's heart finally began to see Payton, not so much as a `Douglas' but more as a very potent and highly desirable `man'!<br /><br />___ With her trademark blend of sensuality and humor, Julia London never disappoints her audience in this latest novel as  Mared and Payton learn to look past their differences and discover their sizzling affinity for each other. Once the Lockhart curse was exposed and explained away; and while I could understand Mared wanting to shed the shackles of the curse and walk proudly for the first time with head held high in Edinburgh; I did have trouble with her leaving Payton.  I FELT Payton's devastation at Mared's refusals as he all but opened his heart and bled for Mared.  I did love the epilogue and loved the way the author advanced the future to include all the previous characters lives as well.  As a stand-alone book, this HIGHLANDER IN LOVE is wonderful, and I can, and do, recommend the entire series (HIGHLANDER UNBOUND and HIGHLANDER IN DISGUISE) as well for an amusing and truly sensual reading experience!  -- Marilyn,(...)and explained away; and while I could understand Mared wanting to shed the shackles of the curse and walk proudly for the first time with head held high in Edinburgh; I did have trouble with her leaving Payton.   I FELT Payton's devastation at Mared's refusals as he all but opened his heart and bled for Mared.  I did love the epilogue and loved the way the author advanced the future to include all the previous characters lives as well.  As a stand-alone book, this HIGHLANDER IN LOVE is wonderful, and I can, and do, recommend the entire series (HIGHLANDER UNBOUND and HIGHLANDER IN DISGUISE) as well for an amusing and truly sensual reading experience!  -- Marilyn,(...)	2005-08-02
135959:US	45284807	R3HWHRDRI09EBN	0743471083	675579284	My Shadow Warrior (Macdonell Brides Trilogy)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Totally Outstanding - Mesmerizing Read	It apparent that in the last of the MacDonnell Sisters trilogy, the author seems to have saved the best for last, or, at the very least, what I consider the most sensual, nail biting and tension-filled chapter to this wonderful medieval saga.<br /><br />Rose MacDonnell, the youngest of the three MacDonnell sisters, was also a witch whose mystical power lay in healing the sick.  Unfortunately, try as she might she could not stop or heal the wasting sickness that was killing her father.  After several letters pleading for the great healer, William McKay, wizard of the north, and receiving no response - the intrepid Rose, disguising herself as a boy, set out to go and beg him to come back and help.<br /><br />William McKay, had read all of the young woman's letters, burning most, but he'd kept one, not knowing why, but definitely intrigued with the woman who both begged his help and at the same time chastised him for his cold-heartedness. It wasn't that he wouldn't have liked to help but each `healing' physically drained him.  Eventually, thru Rose's sheer perseverance, and a good deal of good ole fashioned sensual attraction, William agreed to travel to Roses' home at Glen Laire. Unfortunately, once he arrived there he discovered that her father's illness was not something he could cure.  It was soon apparent that the work of a very powerful wizard using black magic and spells was stronger than either Roses' skill or Williams miraculous healing could combat.  As Rose and her sisters sought to uncover the identity of the mysterious black wizard he turned his evil intentions against William and his daughter Deirdre threatening any future happiness Rose and William might find together.<br /><br />*** I truly enjoyed this offering from the very first pages right up to the last, and found it hard to set aside.  In this character driven installment featuring the youngest MacDonell sister Rose and the wizard William McKay the characters were both very likeable and well matched, as well as complex.  The secondary characters, including those from the previous installments all came back to fit within the plot very well in this stand-alone episode.  Deidre, William's daughter with her gift of communicating with animals was wonderful and the child molestation aspect was also a rather unique element that gave an added dimension to the story.  All in all, this was a highly original, sensual and beautiful love story that is sure to please the most discriminating of historical romance readers who like a touch of whimsy in their reads.  ---- Marilyn, (...)ex.  The secondary characters, including those from the previous installments all came back to fit within the plot very well in this stand-alone episode.  Deidre, William's daughter with her gift of communicating with animals was wonderful and the child molestation aspect was also a rather unique element that gave an added dimension to the story.  All in all, this was a highly original, sensual and beautiful love story that is sure to please the most discriminating of historical romance readers who like a touch of whimsy in their reads.  ---- Marilyn, (...)	2005-08-02
136713:US	45284807	R27G30RQB7EG9O	0446615943	959828477	Lord of Desire (The Risande Family)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Totally STELLAR Medieval Romance - AWESOME!!!	Setting - England, 1065 A.D. ---  A year ago Lady Brynnafar Dumont had fallen in love.  She'd come upon a man cavorting in the water, so enjoying himself and whose beauty and zest for life and living was so miraculous to her eyes, she could only liken him to a merman.  While watching him she saw a woman come to join him.  She marveled at how he adored the beautiful blonde angel he welcomed and wished that someday she would be the object of such love and devotion.  Instead, today she waited for the reputed cold-blooded Norman beast that had defeated her father in battle and was coming to wrest her beloved home from them.  It was said he had no heart - a betrayal had sealed his heart and encased it in ice - leaving only a savage warrior who gloried in the kill.  It there fore came as a shock to Brynna to discover, that the beast was he - the merman that had haunted her dreams for the past year.<br /><br />That beautiful sensually handsome man was Lord Brand Risande - known as \\"The Passionate\\".  Brand's ability on the battlefield and bedchamber alike was of a savage intensity that masked the bitterness of a betrayal that had ripped the heart from his chest.  Now a victim himself, Brand would be forced by his friend the Duke of Normandy and the King of England to marry the Saxon daughter of the man he'd defeated.  As beautiful and comely as she was, he vowed he would never love her - but as Brynna's honesty and unselfish love was given to him, he would find that she would prove to be a warrior to he might gladly lose the battle to.<br /><br />___ This was an amazing and thoroughly enjoyable Medieval read encompassing all the grandeur, and the political intrigues of that era that lovers of historical romances are bound to take pleasure in.  I was totally captivated by this author's well-researched writing, the emotion, and the sensual imagery of lovemaking scenes that took my breath away.  The romance was SUPERB and I loved the author's characterization of the lead protagonists as well as the humor and loving friendships that existed between Brand and William, Duke of Normandy (later William the Conquerer) and his brother.  Brynna and Brand were both wonderful leads and the author shined in making the reader feel all their emotions of the love, hurt, betrayals, and especially the passion that neither was able to hide for one another.  This is a STELLAR Medieval romance that sparkles with wit, humor, and sensual passion that will put this newer author on the road to stardom!  I will be anxiously awaiting the next book featuring Brand's brother Dante in LORD OF TEMPTATION.  --- Marilyn,(...)as the humor and loving friendships that existed between Brand and William, Duke of Normandy (later William the Conquerer) and his brother.  Brynna and Brand were both wonderful leads and the author shined in making the reader feel all their emotions of the love, hurt, betrayals, and especially the passion that neither was able to hide for one another.  This is a STELLAR Medieval romance that sparkles with wit, humor, and sensual passion that will put this newer author on the road to stardom!  I will be anxiously awaiting the next book featuring Brand's brother Dante in LORD OF TEMPTATION.  --- Marilyn,(...)	2005-08-02
137260:US	45284807	RJHA2PRXUKXL5	0425204421	464255937	Beyond Control (Beyond, Book 1)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Outstanding Suspense - Very Clever TWISTS and TURNS - HOT!!!	When billionaire Leonard Hamilton summoned journalist Jordan Walker to his home, Jordan made sure he'd done his homework. He was prepared having done as thorough a background research on the reclusive philanthropist as humanly possible, but nothing could have prepared him for the life altering discoveries he would soon make once he'd accepted the job and started investigating the `alleged accidental death' of the billionaire's son.<br /><br />While delving into the investigation Jordan obtained an invitation to a senator's party where he was instantly aware of a beautiful brunette. Never one to actively pursue the opposite sex the intense attraction was extraordinary as it heightened his senses in a most peculiar way. The object of Jordan's scrutiny, Lindsay Fleming, aide to a powerful senator, was also keenly aware of Jordan in much the same way. When they were introduced to one another and touched hands, the effect was instantaneous and it seemingly opened each other's minds to one another - a very scary situation for both parties who had never met before that day!<br /><br />The connection was stronger than anything each had ever felt, and as they came to explore the bond and similar feelings further, they became embroiled in a massive government cover-up of murder, mind-control and biological warfare. Racing against time, they had to forge their new-found telepathic bond; a bond that would only grow stronger with their complete sexual surrender in order to save themselves and uncover a deadly government conspiracy.<br /><br />____ WOW! This was certainly one very hot, steamy, mind boggling and exciting suspense thriller. I loved the concept of finding a soul mate who was so telepathically connected with you that there was no need to vocalize. You name it, this book has it including some very snappy dialogs combined with an absolutely riveting tale of suspense and a love match between two people who had to overcome personal conflicts in working hard to an understand of their extraordinary connection. This was a very well written and skillfully executed tale with well-developed characters, stunning sensuality and some clever twists. A truly dynamic, can't put it down, read!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---understand of their extraordinary connection. This was a very well written and skillfully executed tale with well-developed characters, stunning sensuality and some clever twists. A truly dynamic, can't put it down, read!  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-08-02
137352:US	45284807	RF3VV3379LFPZ	0451216237	854455154	Dangerous Passions (Signet Eclipse)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Highly Entertaining - Suspenseful and Romantic	In this second book of the Black Phoenix trilogy, author Lynn Kerstan again gives a wonderfully exciting suspense filled historical tale.  Along, with her expressive style of writing using crisp and witty dialogs the reader will be pulled into the suspense of several sub-plots within the main story.<br /><br />As two people were summoned by the mysterious Black Phoenix organization to track down a killer, Colonel Lord Marcus Cordell, who had returned to England after a 20-year absence found himself partnered up with Lady Eve Halliday, a fashionable society heiress who was to pose as his betrothed.  Cordell sensed right from the beginning that beneath the faade of the lady's beautiful but cool exterior was a hidden animosity that made no sense to him considering his long absence from England and lack of social connections.<br /><br />Lady Eve's animosity towards Cordell was real and while she was prepared to help track down the elusive murderer stalking the haut ton - her most immediate object was to trap and ruin Cordell.  The rage would recede though as the retribution she so desperately wanted to rain down on Cordell would be harder to exact as her passion for the man overcame her fury. It soon became apparent that as they came closer to unmasking their prey, Lady Eve herself appeared to have been earmarked as a target as well.  After spending time posing together as the besotted couple, Cordell would have to rationalize which was worse, death at the hands of a killer or falling in love with a woman who seemed to have vengeance, betrayal and possibly his death on her mind.<br /><br />___ Written with exquisite prose, dialogs and wonderfully complex and unique characters, I thoroughly enjoyed this second entry to Kerstan's latest trilogy.  Unfortunately, I am rating this just a smidgen lower than my initial plan and the reason is that I did not feel the author wrapped up sufficiently all the burning questions that were raised.  First and foremost, who was behind the attacks on Lady Eve and why?  The answer to the other murders was tied up very nicely and with a very good twist, BUT the `person' behind the attacks on Eve was never revealed as I ask myself, is the author going to wrap this up in the final book of the trilogy???  Also, as each chapter started, we saw a letter that was from Eve's childhood sweetheart that more or less was setting up the scenario as to why she hated Cordell so much.  After all was said and done, the last batch of hidden letters was delivered, and Eve was ready to beg forgiveness from Cordell.  Was there something in the letters that caused her change of heart, other than the realization that revenge left a bitter taste in her mouth?  One thing I could not fault though was the very poignant and heart tugging declarations Eve and Cordell issued to one another in the end --  Now that's what romance is all about!  Picky things aside, I can enthusiastically recommend this highly entertaining read! - Marilyn, for [...] ---behind the attacks on Lady Eve and why?  The answer to the other murders was tied up very nicely and with a very good twist, BUT the `person' behind the attacks on Eve was never revealed as I ask myself, is the author going to wrap this up in the final book of the trilogy???  Also, as each chapter started, we saw a letter that was from Eve's childhood sweetheart that more or less was setting up the scenario as to why she hated Cordell so much.  After all was said and done, the last batch of hidden letters was delivered, and Eve was ready to beg forgiveness from Cordell.  Was there something in the letters that caused her change of heart, other than the realization that revenge left a bitter taste in her mouth?  One thing I could not fault though was the very poignant and heart tugging declarations Eve and Cordell issued to one another in the end --  Now that's what romance is all about!  Picky things aside, I can enthusiastically recommend this highly entertaining read! - Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-08-02
149979:US	45284807	RDRYVGQWLPJ89	0451214994	37870236	The Marriage List (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	40	47	N	N	Lovely Regency - Fresh New Voice!	Viscount Radford Evers in surviving the battle at Salamanca sustained a crippling injury that eventually sent him to Bath in an effort that the healing waters would help to cure him.  While the waters might heal the injury to his leg, the waters, so far were doing nothing to heal the bitterness in his soul because of the injury that kept him from riding his beloved horses.  Forced to walk with a limp on a foot and leg that pained him constantly, his once cherry personality was decidedly grim. His best friend, Lord Nathan Wynter, was not about to let him wallow in self-pity and on one of his unannounced visits and on a whim they decided to make a list of attributes Evers considered essential and should look for in selecting the perfect wife.  It was on this particular afternoon that May Sheffers and her best friend Iona stormed their way into Evers study, and Radford's life would never be the same.  Other than good broad hips [perfect for child-bearing] May Sheffers held none of the attributes he desired in a mate.<br /><br />May's parents had left her in the care of her Aunt Winnie and gone off to seek their fortune and adventure in exotic places.  After not having been heard from for several years, May's uncle, a controlling Earl, had petitioned to have her parents declared dead, thereby as head of the household, gaining control of  and cutting off May's funds.  Since this had happened, the rent on May and Aunt Winnie's cottage in Bath had not been paid and Ever's man of affairs had sent an eviction notice.  May needed to convince Evers to intervene in stopping the eviction and give her time to sort out the financial tangle.  May's patience at Radford's haughty attitude towards her and Iona was too much to bear and she abruptly took her leave, hoping never to lay eyes on the handsome insufferable Viscount again. Unfortunately, it would seem fate was not about to honor her wishes, as the next few weeks would have them bumping (literally) into one another time and again.  For Radford, he would soon learn that in matters of the heart - his list of the perfect woman didn't even come close to the yearnings of his heart!<br /><br />*** For a debut I must say I was delighted with this new authors effort. I found her writing fresh, and her lead characters fully developed with their personalities very well crafted. Radford's metamorphous into a caring individual as he came to cherish May, first as a friend, then soul-mate was very lovely indeed.  The story itself was heart-warming with a wonderful plot and a trickle of suspense concerning the underlying reasons behind her odious uncle's interference in her life. The secondary characters were also all strongly laid out and motivationally insightful.  This was a fine effort on the part of this author and I highly applaud it this book and sincerely recommend it to any and all, looking for a very entertaining regency read.or Radford, he would soon learn that in matters of the heart - his list of the perfect woman didn't even come close to the yearnings of his heart!    *** For a debut I must say I was delighted with this new authors effort. I found her writing fresh, and her lead characters fully developed with their personalities very well crafted. Radford's metamorphous into a caring individual as he came to cherish May, first as a friend, then soul-mate was very lovely indeed.  The story itself was heart-warming with a wonderful plot and a trickle of suspense concerning the underlying reasons behind her odious uncle's interference in her life. The secondary characters were also all strongly laid out and motivationally insightful.  This was a fine effort on the part of this author and I highly applaud it this book and sincerely recommend it to any and all, looking for a very entertaining regency read.	2005-07-25
150091:US	45284807	R28SXDFNM83C9S	0778321991	351009152	The Devil's Necklace	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Splendid - Stand-Alone Sequel to Trilogy	Setting - London 1805 --- Ethan Sharpe, is a British privateer whose innermost goal in life was to see Harmon Jeffries, the traitor responsible for his brutal years in prison and the vicious deaths of his crew punished.  To that end, when he discovered the person who aided Jeffries, was a woman by the name of Grace Chastain, and believing her to be Jeffries' mistress, he raided a ship she was on, captured and brought her back to his own ship where he planned to humiliate his enemy by seducing his woman.<br /><br />Grace had to aid the man that all thought was a traitor; she couldn't let him hang even knowing that her life would be forfeit should she be caught. When she was captured by the brooding sea captain with murder in his eyes, Grace thought the priceless heirloom necklace, given to her by her best friend, promising either great happiness or great tragedy to the wearer was certainly living up to the latter part of  the legend as she was forced to resist the coarse advances of the boorish and crude sea captain.<br /><br />During the voyage, as Ethan finally came to believe that the woman was not who he imagined her to be and was beginning to admire her spunk and courage, the seduction he planned became his hearts desire.  After one totally blissful and sensually exciting encounter, and Ethan realized she was an innocent, Grace explained away her connection to Jeffries.  Totally dismayed by this revelation, Ethan would have to decide if he could lay aside his vengeance long enough to come to terms with and follow his heart's desire or let hatred rule his life.<br /><br />*** This was a smashing sequel to Martin's newest trilogy that started with THE BRIDE'S NECKLACE.  The main protagonists torment was vividly written and forcefully brought home in this tremendously emotional and exciting adventure.  Martin does an amazing job with insinuating all the nuances of  betrayal, longing and sensual delight in her writing. The dialogs are smart, witty, and fresh and invites the reader in to become a part of the drama in this latest, totally stand-alone, entry to the trilogy.  While I could understand Ethan's torment of loving Grace, knowing who she was, I truly would have liked to kick his (...) for his obstinacy, and wept tears of joy when the author brought him along to accept and charish the gift he'd actually been given. This is another absolutely marvelous romantic adventure by one very talented author  I highly recommend.<br /><br /> --- (...)come a part of the drama in this latest, totally stand-alone, entry to the trilogy.  While I could understand Ethan's torment of loving Grace, knowing who she was, I truly would have liked to kick his (...) for his obstinacy, and wept tears of joy when the author brought him along to accept and charish the gift he'd actually been given. This is another absolutely marvelous romantic adventure by one very talented author  I highly recommend.     --- (...)	2005-07-25
157135:US	45284807	R1X285DKNKZOMK	006053124X	44138711	It's In His Kiss (Bridgertons)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Always Great Entertainment!	Hyacinth Bridgerton was most definitely a force to be reckoned with. The youngest of the Bridgerton brood of eight children, she was indeed one of a kind.  She was terribly smart, awfully outspoken, and it was universally agreed - best taken in small doses.  Hyacinth was loved by her family [sometimes endured] but also had a soft spot in her heart and was very close to Lady Danbury.  After all, it was customary for her to spend Tuesday afternoons reading to Lady D who admittedly was not fond of many people - including her own children.  None the less, Hyacinth greatly admired her and aspired to one day to being exactly like her.  [Have to comment here that I loved Lady D - she was the perfectly lovable feisty grande dame with a big heart she kept carefully hidden.]<br /><br />Gareth St. Clair was cut off by his father, or at least the man, for the first 18 years of his life, he'd thought had been his father.  Consequently he considered his grandmother, Lady D, as the one and only person in the world, since his older brother had died, that he loved and who loved him in return.  And so, because of this and his grandmother had blackmailed him in attending the annual Smythe-Smith discordant musicale. Gareth  found himself sandwiched in between Lady D and Miss Hyacinth Bridgerton that fateful afternoon having to endure the atrocious music yet he found himself greatly amused by Hyacinth who seemed to be suffering as much as he [the music, his nearness - or both!].  Hyacinth was a force, but Gareth seemed to hold his own with her and believe it or not - got in the last word before he left  - a rare occurrence for Hyacinth.<br /><br /> Days later Gareth found himself approaching his grandmother, Lady D, with a bequest handed down from his paternal (?) grandmother - a journal written in Italian - a language Gareth, had no knowledge of. It so happened that Hyacinth was there the day he came and volunteered to translate [knowing full well, that her Italian was rusty and less than perfect] - It was through Hyacinth's translations that they would discover that herein might lie the answers to a mystery that if solved might bring some answers and a secret inheritance to Gareth.<br /><br />*** There seems to be a mixed bag of reactions on this latest entry to Quinn's highly acclaimed Bridgerton series.  In my opinion - I found it to be uniquely touching.  Gareth, was such a wounded soul - no matter his bravado and I immediately wanted to champion him.  Hyacinth was a dynamo - spoiled - naturally - she was the last of the brood who was born AFTER her father had died.  Yet, she was kind -and yes, most certainly outspoken and positively - had to win - especially the last word!  There were few occurrences of interaction with Hyacinth's siblings, and her mother, but what episodes and accompanying dialogs there was were pure Quinn genius!  The creation of Gareth's and Hyacinth's romance was built slow but sure and, I for one, loved the poignancy of Gareth realizing that he loved the whole infuriating and lovable quirky package that was Hyacinth.  Not Quinn's best - but definitely recommended for pure entertainment! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ess than perfect] - It was through Hyacinth's translations that they would discover that herein might lie the answers to a mystery that if solved might bring some answers and a secret inheritance to Gareth. <br /> <br />*** There seems to be a mixed bag of reactions on this latest entry to Quinn's highly acclaimed Bridgerton series.  In my opinion - I found it to be uniquely touching.  Gareth, was such a wounded soul - no matter his bravado and I immediately wanted to champion him.  Hyacinth was a dynamo - spoiled - naturally - she was the last of the brood who was born AFTER her father had died.  Yet, she was kind -and yes, most certainly outspoken and positively - had to win - especially the last word!   There were few occurrences of interaction with Hyacinth's siblings, and her mother, but what episodes and accompanying dialogs there was were pure Quinn genius!  The creation of Gareth's and Hyacinth's romance was built slow but sure and, I for one, loved the poignancy of Gareth realizing that he loved the whole infuriating and lovable quirky package that was Hyacinth.  Not Quinn's best - but definitely recommended for pure entertainment! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-07-20
164343:US	45284807	R205AOFFV73SO0	193281535X	925019730	Dance of Desire	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Compelling and Sensual Delight	Setting - Tangston Keep, England 1192 ---  Lady Rexana Villeaux loved to dance but the dance she would perform tonight for the barbarian High Sheriff of Warringham, Fane Linford would be one of desperation.  She hoped this eve to draw his attention her way so that her loyal man-servant could sneak into the sheriff's solar and steal away the parchment listing her beloved brother Rudd as a traitor against the crown.  Rexana was a lady of nobility but, dressed like an infidel's whore, she would do whatever she must to save her hot-headed brother.  Mission aside, her curiosity was piqued to see the man rumor had it that had been disowned by his own father, kept prisoner by the infidels, spied for his king, and had bedded a Saracen wench.<br /><br />Fane Linford, was many things, but after surviving the hell of torture and prison, he was not a fool. He didn't trust the fawning nobles feasting in his hall, yet the little dancer doing her best to imitate a foreign dance intrigued him.  Fane recognized that the dancer was a fake, and convinced her to await him in his solar.  He was looking forward to exploring her lithe body that evening and couldn't wait to quit his hall full of guests to engage in a feast of his own.  As Fane was beginning a sensual seduction on Rexanna, he was pulled away to interrogate newly captured prisoners, one of which was her brother Rudd.  That very interruption afforded Rexana a chance to escape.<br /><br />Discovering later that his little dancer was the Lady Rexana, he forced her into wedding him in return for giving her the opportunity to prove her brother innocent of treasonous charges.  Stubborn to a fault, Rexana's plan was simple to wed, but never bed - Fane's plan was much simpler - he would wed and teach her a new dance, one of sensual love and desire.<br /><br />*** In this debut effort the reader will swept up from the very first pages into a very intriguing, fast paced, and beautifully written novel.  Not only is the medieval era a particular favorite of mine, but coupled with the fascinating characters of Fane and Rexana as they lead each other in a delightful dance of love, trust, surrender and second chances you have the recipe for one very compelling novel.  Fane was simply magnificent - a brooding dark hero carrying the physical and emotional scars from his past, yet he senses in Rexana a woman who can heal both his heart and soul.  He knew deep within that her desire was a match for his own -- but convincing her would be a bit more problematic.  The flow of this story will so engage you that you will have to finish it in one sitting.  I for one, will be looking forward to more from this new author and suggest you all do the same.  -mine, but coupled with the fascinating characters of Fane and Rexana as they lead each other in a delightful dance of love, trust, surrender and second chances you have the recipe for one very compelling novel.  Fane was simply magnificent - a brooding dark hero carrying the physical and emotional scars from his past, yet he senses in Rexana a woman who can heal both his heart and soul.  He knew deep within that her desire was a match for his own -- but convincing her would be a bit more problematic.  The flow of this story will so engage you that you will have to finish it in one sitting.  I for one, will be looking forward to more from this new author and suggest you all do the same.  -	2005-07-16
165289:US	45284807	R35PKG7BJ4LA60	0505525267	114516520	Highland Fling	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Very Humorous Adventures in Time	Scotland - 1603 --  Poor Griffin Campbell, heir to clan Campbell, handsome, strong, honorable, and intelligent.  Everything a future laird should be, other than the fact that try as he might, he just can't seem to do the deed with a lass!  It's not necessarily that he doesn't have the urge, it's just that the minute he gets close or kisses them his stomach rolls and he has to vomit. So far, he's hidden this particular quirk from everyone but now finds himself betrothed to a woman he doesn't even feel the urge to kiss, let alone do the deed. Taking himself off to gather his thoughts, he happens upon a cave that had a pool and green crystals.  Stones that looked just like the crystal that his friends Jix and Jamie MacGregor used that enabled them to travel back and forth in time.  As he touched the stones, hed wake was staring at Chelsea, a comely lass in a very short dress - and, more importantly, it was the year 2003.<br /><br />Chelsea was following in her scientific parents shoes - both of whom were brilliant scientist's.  Chelsea was just about finishing up a doctorate degree back in Texas, yet she  never felt she could measure up next to her two best friends - the vivacious lovely Jix MacGregor and, gorgeous and accomplished Samantha.  They had been friends forever and when invited to come and celebrate Jix and Jamie's anniversary, Chelsea couldn't refuse.<br /><br />Chelsea had never before felt any kind of attraction for a man; that is until she got a good look at Griffin Campbell, a blond Adonis if ever she saw one.  He seemed to like her too, at least he sure kissed like he did, but then he would turn around and `hurl' immediately after. Now for someone whose self-esteem was low to begin with Chelsea didn't think the future looked too bright. When they all ended up flying to Texas in search of specialist for Jix.  Griffin discovered a long lost cousin had somehow time-traveled back to 1882 Texas  and he was determined to find a way to save him never expecting that Chelse would be coming along on the adventure.<br /><br /> *** In the second installment to Mallory's time travel series, she brings Griffin Campbell back from Scotland 1603 to Scotland 2003, and then to Texas 1882.  Poor Griffin as if the adjustment to 2003 wasn't enough of a culture shock, he'd been put into the belly of a giant metal bird - an aero-plane - and flown to modern day Texas, with more adventures thrown in!  One can positively say that you won't get bored with this rollicking adventure of a time travel story especially as Griffin finds the woman he'd truly like to settle down with - except for that one little problem.  Filled with more than enough secondary characters, and a plethora of amusing situations this writer puts the lead duo through,  the reader is sure to find this an enormously entertaining read.  -- Marilyn for, [...]---se would be coming along on the adventure.       *** In the second installment to Mallory's time travel series, she brings Griffin Campbell back from Scotland 1603 to Scotland 2003, and then to Texas 1882.  Poor Griffin as if the adjustment to 2003 wasn't enough of a culture shock, he'd been put into the belly of a giant metal bird - an aero-plane - and flown to modern day Texas, with more adventures thrown in!  One can positively say that you won't get bored with this rollicking adventure of a time travel story especially as Griffin finds the woman he'd truly like to settle down with - except for that one little problem.  Filled with more than enough secondary characters, and a plethora of amusing situations this writer puts the lead duo through,  the reader is sure to find this an enormously entertaining read.  -- Marilyn for, [...]---	2005-07-15
171790:US	45284807	R1Y0BTM3USXXGP	0553587536	283867745	The Marriage Trap	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Romance, and Thrilling Intrigue Abounds	I may be a devout fan of Elizabeth Thornton, but as a reviewer you can rely upon me to give you an honest assessment of what I've read.  Well, I'm here to say Thornton's newest book should definitely be on your `buy list' as she welcomes you into her newest Regency-era trilogy with her initial offering focusing on Lord Jack Rigg and his two best friends, Ash, heir to a Marquis; and Brand, born on the wrong side of the blanket and now a renowned newspaper man.<br /><br />Jack had led a carefree life until he inherited an Earldom upon his brother's death, and became the target of all the matchmaking mamas of England.  Along with his friend Ash, they fled London for Paris where Jack met the unremarkable lady's companion Ellie Hill.  Jack never recognized her as the childhood friend that had at one time both tormented and idolized him so many years ago.  Never would he have looked twice at the dowdy companion, but hours later near the infamous Palais Royale, could he believe that the mysterious Madame Aurora, cardsharp virtuoso, he had rescued in a caf&eacute; brawl was the same woman.  In the space of hours, their paths had crossed several times where, Jack's impressions went from total disinterest, enchantment, and then a furious rage as he felt he'd been set up!<br /><br />The furthest thing from Ellie Brans-Hill's mind was attempting to trap anyone into marriage, especially her former childhood friend, Jack Riggs.  A vicar's daughter, all thoughts of marriage fled her mind years ago and her one goal was to honor a promise to her mother to take care of her brother Robbie.  What little money earned as a lady's companion though would not be sufficient to bail Robbie out of his latest peccadillo, thus she had donned the guise of the mysterious Lady Aurora and ventured out to win the money needed to pay off loan sharks threatening her beloved brother. Being rescued by Jack Riggs, would prove to be a godsend when later she would be accused of theft and needed an alibi - but the alibi would cost dearly as it caught them both in a marriage trap!<br /><br />*** In my opinion, nobody does it better in creating fascinating characters, intriguing mystery, and splendid romance as effectively as Thornton.  This initial installment in a new trilogy proves without a doubt that she is still a force to be reckoned with in this genre. Her characters are all fresh and well defined and the two leads, Jack and Ellie, played extremely well off of one another.  Ellie's set-down to Jack after refusing his insulting offer of marriage was a positively brilliant piece of dialog, that I found totally delightful - I think I actually clapped!  This newest trilogy is off to a great start and the insights given of the next two heroes Brand and Ash, will surely whet your appetite for more from this very accomplished author.  You won't go wrong in adding this author to your `auto-buy' lists and keeper shelves. - Marilyn, for [...] --ut the alibi would cost dearly as it caught them both in a marriage trap!<br /><br />*** In my opinion, nobody does it better in creating fascinating characters, intriguing mystery, and splendid romance as effectively as Thornton.  This initial installment in a new trilogy proves without a doubt that she is still a force to be reckoned with in this genre. Her characters are all fresh and well defined and the two leads, Jack and Ellie, played extremely well off of one another.  Ellie's set-down to Jack after refusing his insulting offer of marriage was a positively brilliant piece of dialog, that I found totally delightful - I think I actually clapped!  This newest trilogy is off to a great start and the insights given of the next two heroes Brand and Ash, will surely whet your appetite for more from this very accomplished author.  You won't go wrong in adding this author to your `auto-buy' lists and keeper shelves. - Marilyn, for [...] --	2005-07-10
172661:US	45284807	RDSS7FAT4XOHZ	0451216245	72167909	A Splendid Indescretion and the Grand Passion (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	4-1/2*  - Double the Entertainment!	Both  stories in this reprint are an exemplary example of what one should expect to<br /><br />find from one of the best Regency-era romance novelists of our time. If you are even thinking of reading regency A SPLENDID INDISCRETION, should be on the top of your list to truly give you an enchanting taste of this marvelous genre.  Ada Surringham is surely one of the most muddleheaded females you might ever discover who is sure to give absent-mindedness a new meaning.  If she weren't so innocently charming in her day-dreaming and forgetfulness one would truly want to wring her neck.  For Ivor Griffith, Viscount Mullineaux, the last thing this well set up Corinthian needed was a  bubbleheaded wife, yet, with Ada, and  her ethereal presence - she was a vision that he was sure he always to find, in his life,  and in his bed.  Presented with a marvelous set of secondary characters, along with the very engaging lead couple the reader should totally enjoy this offering.  -  In this first story of this double volume, you will find a smile on your face from beginning to end in this totally delightful and fun read.  Overall Rating - 5<br /><br />The second story in this volume, THE GRAND PASSION while still showcasing the superb writing and feelings of regency era, will give the reader another emotional high, but rather than sweet, I found it to be rather a sadder tone dealing more with the complexities of human emotion than the lighter versions one generally associates with a traditional regency.<br /><br />After several proposals Tess Brownlow finally accepted the suit of her childhood best friend who had always loved her.  Jeremy Beringer might not have been what she anticipated as her `grand passion' but she'd always cared and loved him so that when she was delivered the heartbreaking news on the morning of her wedding day, that Jeremy had been tragically killed as a result of a coaching accident, she was devastated.  Later when she found that the driver had been replaced  by a drunken `sportsmen' of the famous Four-In-Hand club - Tess vowed revenge.  Fortunately, Tess's scheme for retribution would work very well, unfortunately, Tess would discover that revenge was not at all sweet.  - While finding this an extremely clever plot, I often felt very sad reading it as a vengeance theme is not uplifting, but when the writing is as polished as Mansfield presents in this regency realm, you still have to love it! In spite of Tess' intent to exact retribution on Matthew Lotherwood, they were totally engaging together and both extremely likable as they managed to seek forgiveness in one another.  Couple this with engaging secondary characters and you are in for a rare double-dipped treat!  Overall Rating - 4by a drunken `sportsmen' of the famous Four-In-Hand club - Tess vowed revenge.  Fortunately, Tess's scheme for retribution would work very well, unfortunately, Tess would discover that revenge was not at all sweet.  - While finding this an extremely clever plot, I often felt very sad reading it as a vengeance theme is not uplifting, but when the writing is as polished as Mansfield presents in this regency realm, you still have to love it! In spite of Tess' intent to exact retribution on Matthew Lotherwood, they were totally engaging together and both extremely likable as they managed to seek forgiveness in one another.   Couple this with engaging secondary characters and you are in for a rare double-dipped treat!   Overall Rating - 4 <br />	2005-07-09
172842:US	45284807	R21V1GU31F2S8U	0373513577	529836326	The Amazon Strain (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Riveting and Suspenseful Adventure!	If reading strong, sexy and suspenseful edge of the seat adventures is your thing, then look no further then THE AMAZON STRAIN as the next book to pick up at your local bookseller.  Newer Bombshell author Katherine Garbera is that author that will fulfill your needs and keep you coming back for more!<br /><br />For the last eight months, Dr. Jane Miller, virologist for CDC has been working on a project in trying to identify and find a cure for an elusive virus that seems to have originated in the Amazon basin.  Brilliant researcher, Jane now felt the pressure when the latest blood sample sent to her by her legendary virus-hunting father was a sample of his own blood - and he was infected.  Trying to convince her superiors of the threat, Jane was forced to go out on her own, without the CDC backing her up, to prove her theory, and more importantly save her dad.<br /><br />Setting out with what she hoped was the antidote; she enlisted the aid of a rogue company, Rebel Virology, and was sent an assistant, Mac Coleman.  Working and traveling with the enigmatic virologist Jane would have to decide if he was there to help or hinder her efforts.  After surviving an attack in the hotel, and then a suspicious plane crash, it would be a race against time to reach her father deep in the Amazon rain forest with the cure before people she once trusted put a stop to her efforts and a period to her existence!<br /><br />***  Whew - and I thought it was hot here this summer.  The author's description of the trek through the rain forest had me sweating, both from the heat and the electrifying buildup of the sensual interplay between two intriguing lead players.  The suspense was extremely palatable and  I found this to be an exciting page-turner from the very first pages.  I loved the strong self-contained heroine who was determined to succeed in her endeavor - who didn't let the establishment convince her that she was wrong in her conclusions of what she knew deep in her heart was the cure.  Mac was that strong-silent type of hero who let her lead until he knew her, then proceeded to earn her trust and silently and purposely break down the walls erected around her heart from the many betrayals she'd experienced.  This story had a great romance, a riveting and suspenseful adventure that should please readers on all levels.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---t was the cure.  Mac was that strong-silent type of hero who let her lead until he knew her, then proceeded to earn her trust and silently and purposely break down the walls erected around her heart from the many betrayals she'd experienced.  This story had a great romance, a riveting and suspenseful adventure that should please readers on all levels.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-07-09
172867:US	45284807	RMSL21YXRUNJY	0451215923	801963352	Lost in Temptation (Signet Eclipse)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	4-1/2*  - Great Sensual Feast for the Romantic	Setting - Cainewood Castle, England - 1815 --- Lady Alexandra Chase the eldest of three sisters, had missed several ton seasons due to the passing of so many members of their family.  With the mourning periods finally over, it was now her duty to marry and her brother Griffin, the current marquess of Cainewood, was doing all in his power to bring suitable suitors to her attention.  As teatime approached, Alexandra entered the drawing room expecting to see the Lord Shelton, the chosen suitor but was shocked when the man speaking to her brother was none other than Mr. Tristan Nesbitt - her brother's long time best friend and her secret love.  For the last six years, Alexandra had put away her feelings for Tristan knowing a marriage could never be condoned between the daughter of a marquess and a common man.  Therefore, she was more than thrilled to learn that Tristan had inherited and was now a marquess himself.<br /><br />Always proper, Alexandra was expected to marry the suitor her brother had selected for her, and up until she saw Tristan she'd had every intention of doing so. Discovering that Tristan was now a marquess she knew that there could be no impediments and all her dreams could come true. Seven years of longing just washed away, for from the moment she saw the dear face that had been imprinted on her heart and mind for so many years - she knew there was only one man she would ever marry and that was Tristan.  All other suitors paled in significance until her brother dashed her hopes by forbidding a marriage to his friend.<br /><br />Unfortunately, a horrible scandal was attached to the title Tristan had inherited, and though he'd longed for Alexandra as well, fate still seemed to conspire against him - he knew, even with the title that he could never hope to marry Alexandra - never hope to love or have it returned.  Fate however, and an uncontrollable penchant for sleepwalking  would cause another scandal as well as a test of faith and selfless love before Tristan and Alexandra would finally find the future they both desired and both be lost to temptation.<br /><br />***  This was an amazing love story and a veritable sensual feast for the most romantic connoisseurs of historical romances.  Alexandra was always the perfectly dutiful young woman, sister, and friend who always did the right thing.  Knowing full well that her choice could ruin her beloved sister's prospects as well as her own ruin, or the chance to be with Tristan - she followed her heart. Alexandra was convinced that she would be able to solve the mystery concerning his uncle's death and lay to rest the scandal attached to Tristan.  Complete with a wonderful cast of colorful and intriguing secondary characters and a marvelous plot the pace was never slow or boring. Most importantly the romance between the two protagonists was absolutely divine with a sensual play as delicious as the recipes for sweets!  Historical romance enthusiasts should simply adore the tidbits of history and others will simply be enthralled with the interesting malady concerning the hero that make this a deeply satisfying and original read.  -- Marilyn, for [...] ---ve before Tristan and Alexandra would finally find the future they both desired and both be lost to temptation. <br /> <br />***  This was an amazing love story and a veritable sensual feast for the most romantic connoisseurs of historical romances.  Alexandra was always the perfectly dutiful young woman, sister, and friend who always did the right thing.  Knowing full well that her choice could ruin her beloved sister's prospects as well as her own ruin, or the chance to be with Tristan - she followed her heart. Alexandra was convinced that she would be able to solve the mystery concerning his uncle's death and lay to rest the scandal attached to Tristan.  Complete with a wonderful cast of colorful and intriguing secondary characters and a marvelous plot the pace was never slow or boring. Most importantly the romance between the two protagonists was absolutely divine with a sensual play as delicious as the recipes for sweets!  Historical romance enthusiasts should simply adore the tidbits of history and others will simply be enthralled with the interesting malady concerning the hero that make this a deeply satisfying and original read.    -- Marilyn, for [...] ---  <br />	2005-07-09
172871:US	45284807	RQX7CJMAS1CGH	0451215869	908587761	Lady Silence (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Original - Very, very Nice!	Setting - Wiltshire, England 1809 - The young 12-year-old waif looked like something the cat dragged in.  She did not speak - not so much as a whimper, or a word.  They named her Katy Snow, so called Katy for something the cat dragged in, and Snow, for the storm that swirled around her the night she arrived.  Young master Damon Farr, at twenty-two was being deployed that morning to fight the war and when asked by his staff, agreed for the servants to take her in and make her useful.<br /><br />It was a different Damon Farr that returned home six years later - gone was the callow youth thinking war nothing more that a walk in the woods, in its place was a hardened soldier that wanted only to return to the safety and welcoming warmth of his home at Farr Park.  The peace he sought would not be forthcoming when he realized that the young mute child he'd left six years earlier had turned into an incomparably beautiful young woman who now appeared to have been adopted as a permanent household member by his mother and household staff.  Damon was determined to discover what she was up to, and prove that her silence was a sham.  In the process, Katy who'd lost her heart to the master six years ago, did her best to earn his trust, knowing that in giving up her secrets Damon would be forced to send her away.  While Damon's mind worked to unmask the little imposter as a devil or angel, in his heart knew he could never let her go.<br /><br />***  This was a very nice original regency sporting a lovely little mystery, engaging characters that will very easily worm their way into the reader's heart and some creative dialogs especially when one considers that the heroine does not speak!  I've observed that reading the more traditional regencies can be entertaining without resorting to physical intimacy especially when the latest trend seems to be the more sensual the better.  This latest entry by a newer author is both refreshing and unique and one cannot go wrong in selecting this book to take along to the shore, the backyard or to an easy chair by the fire for a most enjoyable reading experience.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---this book to take along to the shore, the backyard or to an easy chair by the fire for a most enjoyable reading experience.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---    <br />	2005-07-09
173496:US	45284807	R1ET9G3E2DF37F	0373513631	429074832	Once a Thief (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	BRILLIANT - Loved It!!!	Rachel had lost her parents at age 8, by the time she was 14 she had just run away from her fifth foster home when Christian Lazar entered her life.  Handsome, suave, sophisticated, he offered her travel to Paris, a home, food, clothing and love.  Though she didn't know then that it would come with a price, or that the love would be so twisted.  Rachel would realize too late that the careful grooming were all part of her training to create the perfect thief, an international cat burglar extraordinaire, a machine conditioned to show no emotion, and a prisoner with no way to escape but to be the best - performing at will for the beautiful but sinister master thief Christian Lazar.<br /><br />Ten years later during their morning workout ritual her Machiavellian master, Christian is struck down. Torn between loving and hating the man, Rachel knew that this was her one chance to escape him and try to live a legitimate life for herself.<br /><br />Within eight months time, Rachel was on her way to establishing herself as a security specialist in the mid-west USA when she accepted a job that catapulted her back into the world of thieves she'd hope to escape.  While there, she would have to confront an evil from her past and discover a love that would bring her back into a world of feeling she thought was lost to her forever.<br /><br />***  This was an absorbing and totally mesmerizing read that I simply could not put down.  Rachel was amazing as she tried to live a normal life after being so cruelly manipulated, brain-washed, and tortured when she didn't perform perfectly to Christian's ideal.  The writing was so superb and the intensity of the action so vivid that I could almost believe I was watching a movie. Christian was skillfully portrayed as a mesmerizing sinister manipulator that will have even the reader both loving and hating him.  Any HOLLYWOOD producer would do well to snap the rights on this up to make one brilliant action packed movie!  This story was so impressive,  I almost find myself at a loss for words.  This is one superb, non-stop action thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat that you'll feel compelled to complete it in one sitting. Totally satisfying, I highly recommend it!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ressive,  I almost find myself at a loss for words.  This is one superb, non-stop action thriller that will have you on the edge of your seat that you'll feel compelled to complete it in one sitting. Totally satisfying, I highly recommend it!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-07-09
179666:US	45284807	R28IDZ1UAM3RJ1	0373513569	361460968	Target: An Athena Force Adventure (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Super Political Suspense Thriller	As political suspense thrillers go, I must admit that this exciting entry in the Athena Force Adventure series put out by Silhouette Bombshell is a definite winner for this talented author.  Additionally, if authors tend to draw on their life's experiences, it certainly seems that Ms. Dees background can certainly lend itself to cloak and dagger, if not covert operations experience.<br /><br />Diana Lockworth comes from a military background, as a Captain in the US Army intelligence branch it was her job to gather intelligence, analyze and assess plots against the country.  Additionally, she was a member of an ultra-secret covert operation called Oracle that was so secret, even she didn't know who else was a member besides herself.  Beginning with a break-in at her home during the middle of the night Diana would be thrust into a super fast lane to uncover a plot to assassinate the president-elect of the United States, Gabe Monihan - AND to make matters worse - she only had 24 hours before the assassination was to take place. A tall order for our heroine, who is a multi-tasked marvel of efficiency and ingenuity!  Are we sure she's human - ah, only too well, because she's also beautiful attracted to, and attracting the very handsome and virile president-elect who she is desperately trying to keep alive!<br /><br />*** WHEW - Now this is what you call edge of the seat suspense.  This outstanding, action packed, political thriller will have you reading non-stop from the very first pages.  Suspense thriller aficionados should find plenty to like about this tale, along with the descriptive and knowledgeable military maneuvers.  One must remember the story covers a span of 24 hours, so definitely not enough time to get anything going in the romance department, though a definite attraction was brewing by the end of the story.  With good solid character development, fast action, and a super star strong heroine this is definitely a read I can highly recommend for fans of this genre.<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ------ Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-07-05
186312:US	45284807	R2PHHT6992F6QS	0451215915	12380073	Much Ado About Magic (Signet Eclipse)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Another Brilliant Entry in the Malcolm Witches Saga	Setting - London 1755 ---  Lucinda Malcolm Pembroke is an artist not only with enormous talent, but her paintings have also been known to create a good deal of scandal.  Over the previous winter, she created a painting of a man she'd never met yet it was a perfect likeness of Sir Trevelyan \\"Trev\\" Rochester - unfortunately; it also depicted him as a murderer!  Hoping to avoid the crowds, Lucinda ventured early to the museum to view her painting before the unveiling.  At about the same time Sir Trevelyan had also ventured in to see what everyone in London was talking about. When Lucinda caught a glimpse of the man she knew then she had to escape London; run from causing any more scandal surrounding her family; and run before that enormous angry man she'd just seen caught up with her.<br /><br />Trev had come home craving nothing more than to put down roots in his ancestral home, but instead, because of a painting created by a painter known as the \\"prophetess\\" most of London was ready to hang and quarter him for murder!  He is bound and determined to discover the whereabouts of this artist and make her confess to plotting with his grandfather in an attempt to ruin him.<br /><br />Eventually, he does meet up with Lucinda only she's changed her distinctive hair color and her name to Lucy. It is Lucy who beguiles, bewitches and instills in Trev a passion unlike any he has ever known before.  Soon he discovers that Lucy is really Lucinda in disguise. After he is captured, and even though she manages to help him escape jail, Trev still doesn't trust her and takes her prisoner aboard his ship.  Before the end of the voyage Lucinda has turned the tables and captured his heart.<br /><br />*** Rice habitually creates a magical world that I always hate to leave creating characters that you want to embrace and never let them go.  This latest volume chronicling the ever so unique and always entertaining Malcolm witches is another example of brilliant storytelling and superb writing.  Her characters are always so unique and endearing the reader will naturally feel compelled to go in search of the previous novels in this series.  This is definitely a keeper for me, and a highly recommended read for those who love entertaining, witty and extremely romantic romances.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---rb writing.  Her characters are always so unique and endearing the reader will naturally feel compelled to go in search of the previous novels in this series.  This is definitely a keeper for me, and a highly recommended read for those who love entertaining, witty and extremely romantic romances.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-06-29
186529:US	45284807	RDHMKTYLRM3WK	0515139726	70211715	The Book of the Seven Delights (Jove Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exotic Locales, Adventuresome and Romantic! 4-1/2*	During a time, and in a field where women were not wanted but simply tolerated, Abigail Merchant was determined that she would succeed where others had failed.  Having trained and been experienced as a fully qualified librarian and armed with her mother's eternal faith and support, Abigail knew she would persevere in the lowly position given to her of `cataloguing acquisitions' in the British Museum.  Here she would stumble upon the journals of a noted scholar that would compel her to leave England and venture forth to the remote city of Timbuktu in order to complete said scholar's quest in locating the Great Library of Alexandria.<br /><br />Along the way, her path crossed that of the arrogant and insufferable `Son of Satan' (SOS) Apollo Smith.  Handsome in a swarthy pirate kind of way, complete with eye-patch, he was not her idea of hero material, although his somewhat tender care of her seasickness on the ocean crossing did garner him some points. Once she was well enough to notice - he certainly inspired and aroused some very annoying and unladylike feelings.  As her un-appointed but necessary guide they battled the Sahara desert, nomad tribesmen, and some merciless French Foreign Legionnaires in their quest for the hidden treasures of the fabled Great Library of Alexandria, and discover an ancient scroll that would change their lives - The Book of Seven Delights.<br /><br />***  This was an exciting romance filled with a suspenseful adventure as the protagonists battled one another as well as the dangers found in the Sahara desert. Initially bound to each other out of necessity, both Abigail and Apollo soon came to discover that some of the traits that infuriated them the most were those in the end they came to admire and embrace as they fell in love with each other.  Krahn does an admirable job of inserting enough detail to keep the pace briskly moving from one harrowing escape to another as the two managed to keep one step ahead of the dangers that dogged their every move. In Abigail, the author has created a character with credible issues and feelings that the reader can relate to and Apollo was well drawn out as well, though I would have liked to discover what the inheritance was that his Uncle was willing to murder for. Otherwise, for those looking for a marvelous adventure set in the exotic locales of Casablanca and  Timbuktu then this is the ticket.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---their every move. In Abigail, the author has created a character with credible issues and feelings that the reader can relate to and Apollo was well drawn out as well, though I would have liked to discover what the inheritance was that his Uncle was willing to murder for. Otherwise, for those looking for a marvelous adventure set in the exotic locales of Casablanca and  Timbuktu then this is the ticket.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-06-29
186694:US	45284807	R3U8Z997TAEA5	0821778145	214599397	Seduction of Sarah (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	4-1/2* Original and Creative Debut!	Sarah Wellesley had been widowed for some time and was adamant she would never marry again.  She delighted in her daily naked swim until the moment she was discovered by a cad who refused to honor her privacy. Escaping his embrace she was horrified to discover mere hours later that he was the long overdue Marquess of Caldern....her cousin Caroline's intended.<br /><br />Alex Caldern had long ago learned the fickleness of a woman's heart, and cynically abandoned any hope of marrying for love.  His upcoming nuptials would be held strictly for the purpose of obtaining an heir, but the chance meeting of the early morning `water sprite' left a lingering desire of lust.  Discovering that the woman who'd ignited his passion was not some local harlot, but the exquisite Lady Caroline's quiet cousin Sarah, Alex began a devilish campaign of seducing Sarah.<br /><br />While Alex was working hard at convincing his intended that they would never suit, several life threatening accidents seemed to continually involve him. Luckily Sarah always seemed near by to come to his aid.  Alex who had never thought that love would enter into the equation had now begun to realize that with Sarah, his biggest challenge was not the seduction, but in convincing her that marriage to him would be a whole new adventure in love and passion.<br /><br />*** This was a very pleasant and a lovely sensual read by a new author and is certainly one, which I can recommend.  Her portrayal of the protagonists was very well done with Sarah having issues of trust after a cruel marriage experience and Alex assuming all women only married for money and/or prestige.  The shrewish cousin Caroline was also a very interesting characterization as to why a man would want to stay single - talk about a witch! Surprisingly, it also gives a bit of twist as to the culprit behind the accidents, that was very interesting.  Additionally, I rather enjoyed seeing the inclusion of the loving relationships Alex had with the many illegitimate off spring from his father's numerous affairs which I thought added an extremely original touch.  I believe that this debut effort shows this author to have a lovely writing style and an original and rare talent that will only get better as time goes on. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---the many illegitimate off spring from his father's numerous affairs which I thought added an extremely original touch.   I believe that this debut effort shows this author to have a lovely writing style and an original and rare talent that will only get better as time goes on. --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-06-29
187936:US	45284807	R34M50TITTS3U8	0778321754	368951372	A Lady Of Expectations	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Simmering Sensuality - Superb Character Development 3-1/2*	The story was simple. Reputed rake Jack Lester was ready to settle down. Not wanting to broadcast his good fortune and financial windfall, mainly in order to keep the ton's matrons at bay, he wanted to discover a woman who would love him for himself, while thinking him poor as a church mouse.  Naturally, he finds his ideal mate, Sophie Winterton - perfect in every way.  So perfect, in fact, that even though Sophie loves him, when she's told he needs money to refurbish his estate she does her best to dissuade and refuse his suit.  Unselfishly thinking that he can find and marry the heiress `she determines' he needs to shore up his estates.  The plot goes on the way of traditional regencies with a full complement of supporting and engaging secondary characters and romances in a predictable manner.  No big surprise here.  Yet, even in this earlier effort, Laurens expertise in character development shines in giving you a totally loveable cast of lead characters.<br /><br />*** I knew when I picked this up that it was a reprint of an earlier work and that it would be more indicative of the traditional regency read with more emphasis on the conduct and wooing practices of that period.  In this I was not disappointed.  Naturally, fans of the very successful Cynster and Bastion Club series will probably miss the highly charged sensuality that Laurens newer work provides but while I missed the sensuality, I delighted in the clever dialogs and the way she created the character of Jack Lester.  Written without the seductive sensual scenes she is so very capable of, Laurens still imbued our hero Jack with an undeniable air of superiority and strength that I could only think she would ultimately use to be her model for Devil Cynster in her later novels.  Jack was an alpha male so utterly commanding and with such simmering sensuality that you want to see him ravish the heroine yet, he's always marvelously in control, drop dead gorgeous, and ultimately lethal - in other words, a total turn on!  Naturally, to each his own - but for me I only see him as totally divine!  Some say this was boring, but for those looking for the truly traditional regency read will enjoy it.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ds, a total turn on!  Naturally, to each his own - but for me I only see him as totally divine!  Some say this was boring, but for those looking for the truly traditional regency read will enjoy it.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-06-28
188936:US	45284807	RJHMYO3ERX5BU	0446613827	358666329	Only for a Knight (Warner Forever)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Vastly Entertaining and a Truly Romantic Tale Your Gonna Love	Juliana MacKay had absolutely no desire, and was dead-set against traveling to Eilean Creag Castle to repay the Black Stag laird, Duncan MacKenzie, a debt.  Juliana had her own opinion of the infamous laird and it wasn't favorable.  Her mother lay dying, and with her labored  breath begged Juliana to see it done - repay the debt and carry a missive to the laird that would hopefully right a wrong committed so many years ago.<br /><br />About the same time Robbie MacKenzie, the sole heir to the Black Stag clan, after a ten-year absence of sowing his wild oats, was on his way home to dutifully marry his betrothed from a rival clan.  Along the way, he happened upon and was struck dumb by the vision that was Juliana MacKay. As it happened, Juliana had been struck herself - in the head - while trying to save a drowning ewe.  Unfortunately, the blow to her head had knocked her senseless and removed most of her memory as to where she was going, and why.<br /><br />With an intense sensual attraction between the two, no memories not even of her name, and with the obligations of honoring a betrothal deemed to guarantee peace between clans - these two star-crossed lovers would have to choose between honor or passion and love.<br /><br />--- This was such a sensually ROMANTIC read and not because of the physical act, but the foreplay of the romance and Robbie's (God Bless um!)  honorable intentions - he embodies all the  absolute stuff a dream lover is made of!  Handsome, kind, oodles of personality and patience beyond measure are just a few adjectives one can use to describe Robbie. One simply had to admire Robbie as he discovered his betrothed's duplicity and dealt with her and her rather hedonistic idiosyncrasies so well.  Juliana was also a refreshing heroine in that, even though her memory was lost, and with her passions so engaged, she would still hold on to her ideals and not succumb to passion with a betrothed man.  Along with an abundance of secondary characters, as well as the visually enticing imagery of the geography, mood, feelings and magic of the Highlands the author is brilliant at invoking, the reader is sure to become a devoted fan of Welfonder with this latest entry! [...]ly enticing imagery of the geography, mood, feelings and magic of the Highlands the author is brilliant at invoking, the reader is sure to become a devoted fan of Welfonder with this latest entry! [...]	2005-06-27
190120:US	45284807	R17NGLYFG420Y8	0764200720	578750296	A Bride Most Begrudging	Books	5	127	133	N	N	Extremely Satisfying both Historically and Inspirational	Setting - Virginia Colonies, 1643 --- Lady Constance Morrow snuck aboard a ship without a chaperone in order to say goodbye to her dearest Uncle Skelly who was being transported to the colonies. Naively believing no one would ever harm the daughter of an Earl, she had no idea of the danger she was in.  Having left her maid behind, and with no footman in sight, the unscrupulous captain had her thrown in the hold along with the female felons who were earmarked as `tobacco brides' for the colonist farmers.<br /><br />Drew O'Connor, grew up in colonies loved the land but knew it was a harsh life and had experienced all the sorrows along with the joys and knew full well that only the strongest survive.  Having lost his beloved a week before their marriage, he had sworn to never love again. Therefore, he was unmoved by this latest ship full of brides, coming only in search for a maid to tend his house and look after his young sister.  Though after a game of cards that very evening, what he ended up with was a wife claiming to be the `kidnapped' daughter of an Earl, and who demanded to be sent immediately back to England.  Not only was she argumentative, but she'd no idea of how to cook, no housekeeping skills whatsoever  - and to his horror - she had RED hair and freckles!  She wanted nothing more than to spend time doing mathematical equations rather than housework.<br /><br />Although they seemed to have nothing in common but individual stubbornness and a love for mathematic puzzles, Drew and Constance came to admire one another with both wishing that their marriage of convenience would become a marriage designed in truth by the power of God's great love.<br /><br />*** In a most delightful way this new author has taken a small slice of American history and created a perfectly lovely romance.  The heroine, Lady Constance, though educated and intelligent was in for the culture shock of her life when faced with the harsh life realities of early colonial America.  As the pampered daughter of an Earl, the author clearly had a field day in being able to portray both the frustrations Constance went through as she struggled to adapt to her new life and the joys as she overcame those challenges.  Drew, though morally strong had lost so much and buried so many loved ones that he'd thought the best way to protect his heart was to not let it become engaged and so the theme of faith in God during trials was extremely uplifting and very lovely indeed.  This book was well written, well researched, emotionally engaging, and featured two wonderful protagonists. Along with a superb cast of secondary characters, the author opens the door for what I hope to see is a sequel featuring Drew's brother Josh.  I most definitely recommend this novel for anyone looking for an extremely satisfying and wonderful feel good read. -- Marilyn, for [...] ---the pampered daughter of an Earl, the author clearly had a field day in being able to portray both the frustrations Constance went through as she struggled to adapt to her new life and the joys as she overcame those challenges.  Drew, though morally strong had lost so much and buried so many loved ones that he'd thought the best way to protect his heart was to not let it become engaged and so the theme of faith in God during trials was extremely uplifting and very lovely indeed.   This book was well written, well researched, emotionally engaging, and featured two wonderful protagonists. Along with a superb cast of secondary characters, the author opens the door for what I hope to see is a sequel featuring Drew's brother Josh.   I most definitely recommend this novel for anyone looking for an extremely satisfying and wonderful feel good read. -- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-06-27
190122:US	45284807	RNEU63RJ20MGA	0743471075	675875035	My Devilish Scotsman (MacDonell Brides Trilogy)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Captivating Original and Entertaining Historical/Fantasy	From the very first pages the reader will be able to lose themselves in MY DEVILISH SCOTSMAN, the second book in author Jen Holling's Medieval Scottish trilogy featuring the three MacDonell sisters. The plot of  three sisters, all witches, being married off by their ailing father who wants to see them protected before he dies is one that is original and totally captivating as each is given depth, drama and passion by this clever wordsmith.<br /><br />Gillian MacDonell has always felt incomplete because she felt she did not inherit any mystical gifts or powers as did her other two sisters.  When her father arranged a match with the notorious Earl of Kincreag, rumored to have murdered his wife and child, excruciating headaches and strong premonitions began to plague her.  Believing as her father did that the rumors were untrue, she went about doing all in her power to bring the reluctant earl, who had a terribly cynical view of not trusting woman, into going thru with the wedding.  [This particular part of the story concerning a love potion and its after-effects was truly amusing - but you'll have to read the book to find out more!]<br /><br />From the moment Gillian arrived at Kincreag Castle several attempts would be made on her life, yet truly eerie incidences would save her time and again.  As she began to fall more in love with Nicholas,  her new husband, she also discovered that she did indeed inherit a mystical power -- one that would prove that the rumors about him might not be true and the danger facing them stemmed from the mortal world and not the immortal.<br /><br />*** Along with a dynamic plot, the action in this story plays non-stop making this a hard book to put aside and I find myself reaching for the computer  keyboard in search of the other two books making up this trilogy.  This is most definitely a book that will engage the reader both with the original story, the edge of the seat drama, and the passionate love story it tells.  Highly enjoyable, the reader should be captivated by this latest trilogy offering. [...]captivated by this latest trilogy offering. [...]	2005-06-27
192202:US	45284807	RIJF7U4JVHHUA	0373228473	431439000	Silent Warning	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Suspense and Romance All Rolled in Together.	Perhaps it was out of guilt, but Kelly Weir would do this one last favor for her one-time best friend and pack up her belongings from the Summer Shore cottage she'd so loved.  Kelly didn't expect to discover anyone in Rachel's home, but Dan Steele, the handsome intruder, she found in Rachel's seaside cottage would do more than break in to the house. While squelching any feelings of trust in another man after having been burned so badly by her past fianc&eacute;, and supposedly best friend,  Kelly would soon come to believe in Dan's theory that Rachel's death was not accidental, but a cold-blooded murder to stop the investigative reporters latest expose of a dangerous drug operation.<br /><br />Dan suffered guilt over his role of developing the dangerous drug that was now being pedaled on the black market, and had ended up being the cause of death of his beloved sister.  Dan would not rest, and was decidedly determined to discover the mastermind behind the operation.  Thinking to remain unemotionally involved when Kelly joined forces with him in trying to learn the identity of their elusive quarry and Dan would be overwhelmed when it became apparent that Kelly now seemed to be the newest target of the `Candy Man'.  Stifling the distracting attraction and lust he was feeling for Kelly, Dan was determined to save her from being the killer's next victim.<br /><br />*** Reading suspense can be a real treat especially when its coupled with fast action and a sensually stirring romance as Ms. Long has done here.  Both protagonists were sympathetic, likeable and the readers will find themselves rooting for them to open up to comfort and hasten along their ultimately very sensual and steamy capitulation!  The secondary characters were plentiful, well characterized and all essential in adding depth to the spine tingling suspense that kept me turning the pages into the wee small hours of the morning.  Even though I admit to having a sneaking suspicion early on as to the real villain, this author mixed in just the right amount of romance with strong edge of the cliff suspense to make this a truly entertaining read and put this author on my watch list.<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---lain, this author mixed in just the right amount of romance with strong edge of the cliff suspense to make this a truly entertaining read and put this author on my watch list.   <br /> <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-06-24
194906:US	45284807	R2PZ2LGHC0ZN5D	0743477723	732738771	One Night With a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 3)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	OUTSTANDING Finale  to a Fabulous Series	Gavin Byrne is many things, a rake, a womanizer, and an unacknowledged bastard of Prinny - but oh, you are so going to love him!  No soft life for this royal son, as he made his own way out of the poverty of Drury Lane and was now a wealthy and powerful club owner with knowledge of some of the most intimate secrets of the ton.<br /><br />Now the very respectable Lady Christabel, needed a favor and knowing that Lord Draker {IN THE PRINCES BED}was a friend to the notorious gamester asked that a meeting be set up.  This wasn't the first time she'd met Byrne, and but she hoped that their first auspicious meeting, when she shot a hole in both his hat and cabriolet, wouldn't stop him from helping her now. She needed Gavin to help her gain entrance into a scandalous house party so that she could search and destroy letters that the host had obtained from her dead husband that could destroy what was left of her family.<br /><br />When Gavin learns that somehow Prinny, the man he hates most in the world, is involved he knows that the letters must be quite damaging to Prinny's hopes of becoming king. Determined to entice the very alluring widow into his bed as an added bonus, Gavin agreed to get her invited to the house party so long as she didn't object to posing as his mistress - a masquerade that Gavin had every intention of turning into reality. Behind his machinations of seducing the desirable widow, he was also planning to steal the damaging letters and use them as revenge against the hated father who'd abandoned him and his mother, but even rakes turn away from revenge when that very revenge can hurt the people they love.<br /><br />___  Jeffries continues to write books with heart throbbing sensual intensity that you never want to see end and this is such a prime example! Christabel is a wonderfully out-spoken, intelligent and feisty heroine who was the perfect match for the absolutely devilish and divine Gavin Byrne. I loved watching the metamorphous of Gavin, as he finally came to realize that the love he had for Christabel was stronger than his hatred for revenge against his father. Splendid protagonists, intelligent and dynamic dialogs - it just doesn't get any better than this as Jeffries wraps up her latest trilogy of the fabulous Royal Brotherhood series!! SIMPLY OUTSTANDING!!!he finally came to realize that the love he had for Christabel was stronger than his hatred for revenge against his father. Splendid protagonists, intelligent and dynamic dialogs - it just doesn't get any better than this as Jeffries wraps up her latest trilogy of the fabulous Royal Brotherhood series!! SIMPLY OUTSTANDING!!! <br />	2005-06-22
217314:US	45284807	R1Z2H8E2AIGB1D	0446614424	955261008	The Rose Red Bride	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Original  - A Wonderful Addition to a Marvelous Trilogy	Setting - Kinfairlie, coast of Scotland, 1421 --- In the second installment of the Jewels of Kinfairlie, Alexander, laird and brother of five sisters, is continuing his quest to marry off the two oldest sisters while pondering the fate of Kinfairlie's ability to manage over the winter. Having successfully married Madeline the eldest, Vivienne the second eldest was proving to be a more difficult challenge.  Now as luck would have it a man claiming to be Nicholas Sinclair, a former suitor of Vivienne's, came to Kinfairlie not only requesting the hand of Vivienne but offering a pouch full of silver along with a condition that Alexander was finding totally objectionable.  Nicholas wanted to BED THE BRIDE before the marriage took place! With severe misgivings and the fate of Kinfairlie weighing in the balance, Alexander agreed believing the man's word of honor that the wedding would take place the very next day.  Alexander was convinced of the man's honorable intentions and believing Vivienne would be pleased with what he believed was her former suitor, he came up with a plan to meet the suitors demands.  Unfortunately, this would be the second time Alexander's best intentions for wedding his sisters would fail miserably.<br /><br />Knowing his sister Vivienne's predilection for adventure, Alexander that evening told a tale that was designed specifically to entice Vivienne into innocently sealing her own fate. Thinking that she would be meeting the man of her dreams Vivienne crept to the tower room that night ready to meet her destiny, a mystical `fairy' lover.  Into the darkness a hooded lover crept thru the tower window and commenced to making slow sweet love to Vivienne.  Unfortunately the morning light revelations would shatter her dreams. The dream lover turned out to be Erik Sinclair, older brother of Nicholas and his intentions did not include marriage, unless Vivienne could deliver him a son!<br /><br />-- In a wonderfully ORIGINAL sequel to THE BEAUTY BRIDE, Claire Delacroix has fashioned an exciting action packed sensual romance.  Our heroine, Vivienne was absolutely marvelous having every right to throw a HUGE hissy fit the next day when she discovered her `fairy lover' was no fairy and had taken her maidenhead with no immediate plans of marrying her! Instead, she was ready to go along with a hand-fast, believing deeply that the sweet loving person she laid with was truly the person that was hidden beneath the tortured and scarred warrior she discovered in the morning.  Jam-packed with lively characters (such as Darg the impish spriggan and Elizabeth the youngest sister who was the only one to see and hear the naughty fairy), the author delivers non-stop action, amusing scenarios, and some poignantly loving reunions.  This is Delacroix at her very magical best penning in the medieval / fantasy genre where in my opinion she simply shines!  I am eagerly looking forward to the last of this trilogy when the two sisters team up to give their brother, Laird Alexander his well-earned comeuppance!  [Marilyn, for [...]E, Claire Delacroix has fashioned an exciting action packed sensual romance.  Our heroine, Vivienne was absolutely marvelous having every right to throw a HUGE hissy fit the next day when she discovered her `fairy lover' was no fairy and had taken her maidenhead with no immediate plans of marrying her! Instead, she was ready to go along with a hand-fast, believing deeply that the sweet loving person she laid with was truly the person that was hidden beneath the tortured and scarred warrior she discovered in the morning.  Jam-packed with lively characters (such as Darg the impish spriggan and Elizabeth the youngest sister who was the only one to see and hear the naughty fairy), the author delivers non-stop action, amusing scenarios, and some poignantly loving reunions.  This is Delacroix at her very magical best penning in the medieval / fantasy genre where in my opinion she simply shines!  I am eagerly looking forward to the last of this trilogy when the two sisters team up to give their brother, Laird Alexander his well-earned comeuppance!  [Marilyn, for [...] <br />	2005-06-03
217887:US	45284807	R4NKQ1I4QFYNT	0843955651	971634078	Redemption (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	4-1/2* Read - Passionate and Deeply Moving	Setting - Texas, 1869 ---  Leaving behind a sordid past, Laurel and her friend Ollie settled in the town of Redemption, looking to start a new life.  Laurel was just about ready to realize her dream along with a decent marriage to the town Mayor which would finally gain the former saloon girl the respectability she desired.<br /><br />The confederate spy Shenandoah, was the one and only man Laurel had ever loved, but his betrayal had broken her heart.  When he rode into town, she feared another betrayal that would expose her secret life and ruin her chances for the new life of respectability she so desperately wanted.<br /><br />Discovering Laurel here in Texas, Shenandoah didn't want to ruin her  so much as to make her his once more, but he'd have to hurt the only other person he cared about in order to do that -  his brother - her fianc&eacute;.<br /><br />--- Set in the days following the Civil war Broday writes a compelling tale that is warm, passionate and heart-wrenchingly emotional.  All her characters are very well drawn as they  portray both the tragic, the joyful and downright amusing personalities of the people whose strength of character made this country great.  Not only does Ms. Broday deliver a well written story, but she'll  keep you on the edge of your seat  in this passion laced tale that will have you alternately laughing, crying, and sharing in the joys and sorrows of real people seeking redemption.  [Marilyn, for [...]	2005-06-03
221874:US	45284807	R1VNA1NGCVP3AU	0373770308	594914676	A Breath Away	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Breathtaking Suspense	From the very first pages the reader will be drawn into this extremely satisfying and suspense filled romance.  Beginning with the prelude you are an eye-witness to the emotional trauma, terror, and guilt eight year old Violet Baker experiences as she mind links with her very best friend Darlene who has been kidnapped.  Somehow, Violet and Darlene Monroe had discovered that at times they knew what each was feeling. When Darlene had gone missing, Violet tried to tell her father where Darlene was; that a bad man was hurting her; and had suffered the guilt ever since in not been able to save her best friend. Twenty years later on the eve of the anniversary of Darlene's death, Violet was having visions again of another woman being murdered, in much the same manner as Darlene. It would be a call from the sheriff, Grady Monroe, of Crows Landing, telling of her father's suicide and confession of Darlene's murder that would send Violet back to her hometown to confront the ghosts of her past.<br /><br />Grady Monroe, remembered the homely young girl that had befriended his sister and though at times he wanted to blame her for his sister's death, knew the blame laid with him for not being there to watch his little sister.  Now as sheriff, he would have to deal with Violet -  never expecting that the homely young child had turned into a beautiful young woman stirring emotions in him that over the years he'd held in strict control.  As the two began to unravel clues to Darlene's murder it became apparent that the same killer had resurfaced once again and was edging closer to home, and one of his victims on his list was going to be Violet.<br /><br />____My gosh, this was a true edge of the seat thriller with more suspects than you could shake a stick at that kept the suspense sizzling right up to the very end.  The lead duo of Grady and Violet were both well drawn out and sympathetic in their emotional turmoil of two wounded souls attracted to one another.  In a first time read of this author I was impressed with the non-stop suspense and the many twists that comprised this full-bodied read. Praise must be given to this author for a totally mesmerizing suspense filled romance that I highly recommend.  [Marilyn, for [...] ]e read of this author I was impressed with the non-stop suspense and the many twists that comprised this full-bodied read. Praise must be given to this author for a totally mesmerizing suspense filled romance that I highly recommend.  [Marilyn, for [...] ]	2005-05-31
224261:US	45284807	R1P0FMEHSTBCFQ	0821776916	564873901	The Bride Wore Chocolate	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Romance and Chocolate - What Could be Better?	Candace Woodrow was getting married in three weeks and for someone who was detail oriented - planning everything down to the minutest detail, fate seemed to be conspiring against her.  Were these all `signs' as her wacky grandmother kept telling her that this was wedding shouldn't take place - like the dress shop burning down with her bridal gown; the priest running off with the church secretary; or the cheap labels falling off the wedding invitations?  Or was it  fate weaving it's treacherous fingers in her life that found her waking up in a strange hunk's bed after a night of over imbibing too many cocktails and then find said `hunk' constantly turning up in her life and distracting her from the course she had set her mind on? Then fate must have had a very weird sense of humor.<br /><br />Fate must have had a hand in putting Candace Woodrow in Michael Volgers face as well, because this confirmed bachelor couldn't seem to put her out of his mind as well.  Candace was so different from any of the society debs he'd dated so far and just maybe he was going to reevaluate his stance on bachelorhood now that he'd had a taste of `Candy'.<br /><br /> This was a delightful and fun read - not to mention `fattening' if you follow even half the delectable recipes served up with a heavy dose of sage advice and loads of chocolate.  Candace had once thrown caution to the wind been betrayed and vowed to live life by the book rather than run the chance of being hurt like that ever again.  She'd picked out the safe - if boring road according to her wacky grandmother - and was ready to marry Barry Borkenstein.  Fortunately, Michael entered her life and was ready, willing and able to convince her that she should trust her heart once more and take a leap of faith - with him.  Filled with wonderful chocolate recipes, an indomitable and wacky grandmother, a serial marrying mother, and well-intentioned friends -- this is a sensually romantic comedy you won't want to miss.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ------	2005-05-29
228995:US	45284807	R1XC2211REBOG5	0778321487	652282211	Testing Miss Toogood	Books	3	1	1	N	N	He Doth Protest TOO Much!	After a visit to an old friend, the Dowager Marchioness of Granville made an offer to sponsor one of their daughters, granting the opportunity to visit London and be presented to the ton in the hope of contracting a marriage that would be beneficial to her family.  Miss Fleur Toogood, second eldest daughter, was considered the best looking of the five sisters to make a good match.  The only problem with Fleur was that she was opinionated  and spoke her mind, oftentimes with disastrous results.  Fleur also was adamant in her belief to marry for love, or not at all.<br /><br />Lord Dominic the dowager's youngest son was appointed by her to be Fleur's chaperone and champion.  Dominic, who was busy secretly trying to ferret out a villain who was kidnapping for ransom some of the ton's recent debutantes, reluctantly accepted his mothers appeal and took his chaperoning duties seriously though with little grace.  His arrogance raised Fleur's hackles but she did manage to charm him even as she inadvertently eavesdropped and discovered his `other business' of trying to save the ton's virginal daughters from the clutches of `The Cat'.<br /><br />As Fluer was introduced to and declared an `original' with the ton, Dominic did his best to find her a worthy husband.  Fortunately, along the way and somewhere deep in his heart, he knew the only one that could meet her high standards or embrace them, and not stifle her natural exuberance was Dominic himself.<br /><br />Finally, Dominic was only an okay hero and his desire to remain unwed when he felt such an intense attraction towards Fleur was a bit flimsy. The writing was, of course, well done with wonderful dialogs and a substantial amount of secondary characters to make this an interesting read. The suspense of the identity of `The Cat' was kept right up to the very end, although I had guessed half way thru the identity of his accomplice. What garnered this a low rating was the rather one-sided romance between Fleur and Dominic. If one didn't know that the hero was to be Dominic, I would have thought Franklin the best choice after the delightful lunch they had together when he made her laugh with his funny faces.  However, Fleur was a gal after my own heart and I loved her honesty and outspokenness as she let her feelings be known, but Dominic needed lessons in the romance department - not to say he didn't have his moments - they were just too few and far between.  Bottom Line - This was an okay read, well-written, with enough intrigue to keep the reader interested, but sadly lacking in any heart stopping romance.w that the hero was to be Dominic, I would have thought Franklin the best choice after the delightful lunch they had together when he made her laugh with his funny faces.  However, Fleur was a gal after my own heart and I loved her honesty and outspokenness as she let her feelings be known, but Dominic needed lessons in the romance department - not to say he didn't have his moments - they were just too few and far between.  Bottom Line - This was an okay read, well-written, with enough intrigue to keep the reader interested, but sadly lacking in any heart stopping romance.	2005-05-25
230516:US	45284807	R2D8LK6JW2TVYF	082177798X	358030522	The Pleasure Garden (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	4-1/2*  - A Real PLEASURE Read - Author to Watch	Miss Angelica Pruitt was an unemployed governess without references and though she was becoming adept at economizing it had been some time since her last meal. With the enticement of obtaining a real meal for showing up at function hostessed by her one single source of income - an infamous demimonde -  the very beautiful and very proper Angelica found herself dressed in a Grecian themed gown and wandering into the `pleasure garden' at Vauxhall.  She was actually debating whether the temptation of a meal was truly worth her masquerade when true temptation in the form of the darkly smoldering gaze of Jason Kitterage made her decision a moot point.<br /><br />Jason's foray into the pleasure garden was business, initially tied into tempting the serious collectors of Egyptian artifacts with whetting their appetites on his latest find - the Mask of Aphrodite.  Gazing into the face of an `angel' with a body to match his thoughts were anything but business as Angel piqued his interest as no other woman ever had. Although her manners and elegance resembled a lady, the setting and her costume reflected her to be something else.  She was indeed something else, and Jason was about to discover that with Angelica he would discover magic without the use of the Mask of Aphrodite.<br /><br />*** I am a big fan of regency reads and love the humorous, the serious, and the deeply sensual paths they can take.  With Ms. Allen's well-written foray into the regency realm, she brings all three aspects into play, although the sensuality focuses more on the deep and abiding love versus the explicit sexual encounters that some authors are noted for.  Ms. Allen also flavors this with an interesting and original  bit of fantasy.  Angelica is a love; definitely a heroine one has to admire for her principles and no nonsense approach to life. Unfortunately, I didn't see the apparent need she had for hiding her true identity from Jason, which had some bearing on my rating. [I just have to mention though, not to miss the one particularly amusing scene where she evened the playing field for Jason as both set upon by footpads.] The drama that focused around the `mask' was definitely an integral part of the story as well and kept that part of the plot dynamic and interesting.  Jason was an admirable hero, even if he didn't realize what a treasure he'd discovered until he'd almost lost it.  The supporting characters were all well-defined adding additional interest and depth to an enormously entertaining read and I look forward to what appears to be a second story featuring Jason's brother Dorian.  This was definitely a beautiful romance from a new author who bears watching.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---tion though, not to miss the one particularly amusing scene where she evened the playing field for Jason as both set upon by footpads.] The drama that focused around the `mask' was definitely an integral part of the story as well and kept that part of the plot dynamic and interesting.   Jason was an admirable hero, even if he didn't realize what a treasure he'd discovered until he'd almost lost it.  The supporting characters were all well-defined adding additional interest and depth to an enormously entertaining read and I look forward to what appears to be a second story featuring Jason's brother Dorian.   This was definitely a beautiful romance from a new author who bears watching.   --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-05-23
232217:US	45284807	RW1B5NI0GSI0Q	082177140X	137621046	I Dream Of You (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Read for a Lazy Day on the Beach	With her business in trouble, her fianc&eacute; jilting her, and definitely needing to regroup, Maddie Winston had escaped to her grandmothers Key West Bed & Breakfast. All she wanted was a quiet peaceful spot on the beach where she could lick her wounds and figure a way out of her latest business problems.  Watching the water, she noticed something floating near shore. With curiosity getting the better of her she waded in and picked up an ornate looking bottle just floating almost out of reach but somehow managed to grab it.  Who was to know that when she started rubbing it to clean it up that she'd be facing one very hunky magnificent man telling her that her every wish was his command.  Yeah, right - straight out of the Arabian night - this had to be Maddie going completely mad.  Try as she might to tell herself that this was not possible; that she had more important problems; that magic just didn't happen in this modern day - that gorgeous alpha male had to keep popping back into her life proving her wrong! Oh, baby - what a way to go!<br /><br />*** Again, I found myself totally entertained with both this authors wit and ability to weave a believable plot amongst the fantasy story of a modern day gal faced with a genie ready and willing to accommodate her slightest desire.  I've even noticed in this second novel I've read by this author that she doesn't always make the romance easy, but throws in a few curves in order to make it interesting.  With a lively dialog, interesting secondary characters, and a very lovely romance this is definitely a book well worth the read.  Take it for a lazy afternoon at the beach and perhaps under the right conditions you just might discover your own genie in a bottle.<br /><br />(...)	2005-05-22
233273:US	45284807	R82LQOL2ECYEK	0821771418	171693798	You're The One (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Totally Delightful and Fun Read	Rand MacPherson has finally obtained his dream.  After 100 years the trust legacy left by his great-great-uncle Colin had run it's course and Rand had inherited the very decrepit Victorian manor.  To some a decrepit, aging white elephant but to Rand a dream come true.  It would be here that Rand would call home.<br /><br />Cassandra Kinross had been residing in the house forever, well ever since Rand's great-great-uncle Colin had walled her into the third floor closet so many years ago.  As a result, she'd cursed him and all male MacPherson's to never find true love UNTIL she did.  Now Rand MacPherson thought to move in.  Well, he was big, handsome, and he didn't seem to be intimidated at all by her - actually, he seemed amused.  Maybe, he just might be the one - her own true love.<br /><br />*** This was a totally delightful fantasy tale that had a little bit of everything tossed into the mix - fantasy, humor, sensuality, and a bit of a heart wrenching tearjerker ending. Cassandra was such a little minx, not only a ghost but a witch as well and she was so well matched with Rand who seemed totally amused by her antics and thrilled to have his very own personal `house-ghost-guest'.  Couple this along with a well-defined set of secondary characters, a couple of cute kids and you're in for a very entertaining read.<br /><br />Rand's mother, a somewhat wacky socialite and her `ghost-busting' friend who decided to help Cassandra win Rand's love were a hoot.  In any case, this was a very entertaining and enjoyable read, and an author I intend to put on my watch list.<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-05-20
234679:US	45284807	R2XH8T1ML5CLGS	006075737X	970597290	Till Next We Meet	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another HIT for Ranney!	Settting - Quebec and  Scotland, 1761 ---  When Catherine Dunnan's husband of only a month went off to war she was devastated but his promise to write often did something to soothe her.  What she would never know was that he was a truly selfish bounder and had no intention of writing her at all.  She would never know this because letters she did receive - letters full of genuine emotion, kindness, and devotion. Catherine would respond back in like fashion, and where she hadn't had time to truly know her husband during their short marriage, she fell passionately in love with the man the letters perceived him to be and when she had word that he'd been killed, she was completely devastated.<br /><br />Colonel Moncrief originally felt sorry for the wife of the man whose dishonorable conduct he'd come to despise, and on a flippant dare agreed to write to the man's wife in his name.  For Moncreif the misery of war in a foreign land was eased by the warm and loving  correspondence that came back and he guiltily continued the correspondence never realizing that he'd fallen in love.  Returning home to take up the unexpected title of duke, Moncreif was disturbed to discover that Catherine seemed to be killing herself over grief of her husband's death.<br /><br />After virtually saving her life, Moncreif announced that he would marry her rather than have her reputation ruined by his actions.  He was irresistibly drawn to her but if she ever discovered his secret would she ever be able to forgive him?<br /><br />*** I admit that I am a big fan of Ms. Ranney's novels and her latest novel, TILL NEXT WE MEET, goes a long way in solidifying her place on my auto-buy list.  While the plot may not be the most original, it becomes a classic when the brilliance of a great wordsmith imbues the story with intelligence, painting a tableau of words that depict a poignancy that imparts enough emotional intensity to make the reader feel as if they are part of the picture.  Ranney is a writer of intelligent sensual romance who leaves an imprint of her work living vividly in your mind long after the last page has been turned. This book is highly recommended reading!<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---a writer of intelligent sensual romance who leaves an imprint of her work living vividly in your mind long after the last page has been turned. This book is highly recommended reading!  <br /> <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---  <br />	2005-05-19
237724:US	45284807	R190GLJXGDYEKJ	1416503595	722150667	If You Dare (The MacCarrick Brothers, Book 1) (Bk. 1)	Books	5	77	83	N	Y	Steamy and Sexy New Trilogy	Kresley Cole has once again taken this reader on another romantic adventure romp with the first book in a new trilogy featuring the three MacCarrick brothers. Three adventuresome and darkly dangerous Scottish brothers who live life on the edge since believing an age-old family curse that predicts that the family line would end with them.<br /><br />Setting the first book in the principality of Andorra, 1856, in a startling and attention grabbing opening, Courtland MacCarrick, youngest of the three brothers, was discovering that hiring himself out as a mercenary for the very evil despot General Reynaldo Pascal was not a good thing! As Pascal was about to have Court's heart carved out of his body, Court opted to propel his bound body into the water and take his chances with the raging torrent below him.<br /><br />Days later, on her morning ride, Lady Annalia Tristan Llorente discovered the half dead beat up body of Court, and realizing by the remnants of plaid that remained on his body that he was one of the despised Scots barbarians that had been hired by Pascal to subjugate the surrounding villagers she fought her initial feelings to leave him rot on the banks of the river. In spite of the fact that he was an enemy, kindness won over her fear, and she dragged Court to her home setting his broken bones and caring for his wounds.  When Court regained consciousness, the battle lines were drawn as Annalia's scorn set the tone of their relationship insisting he leave. The beautiful, fiery and tantalizing Castilian aroused feelings in Court he'd long since thought he'd conquered and her feelings of superiority also raised his hackles so the fur certainly did fly! When Courtland realized that she was about to sacrifice herself to marry, his enemy Pascal in order to save her brother, Court kidnapped her, if only to save her from herself - or so he thought! The journey along the way proved to be a rollicking sensual adventure that gives new meaning to the word `steamy'!.<br /><br />***  I thought this was a deliciously entertaining read that kept the sexual tension high; the adventure exciting; and culminated with a fabulous love story.  Annalia and Court were really great together providing entertainment both when battling and definitely when loving.  Court thought Anna petulant and spoiled; she thought of him as an ungentlemanly barbarian; definitely the ingredients for a lively romance.  When Court finally discovered that Anna, the petite dainty beauty had courage, strengths and a passionate nature it brought out both the best in him as well as bringing him to his knees.  The lively mixture of secondary characters, from Court's brothers, his crew of comrades, and Pascal's daughter Olivia, were all well-defined adding additional layers of depth to this very sexy romance.  The dialogs, not only between the main protagonists but also between the numerous secondary characters were wonderful adding one more layer to this superb read!  The only thing I must say I don't like is having to wait another year for Hugh's story, which judging by the sneak peak at the back of the book looks to be another fabulous read and a worthy addition to this newest trilogy which is going to end up on my keeper shelf! --- Marilyn, for [...]!.  <br /> <br />***  I thought this was a deliciously entertaining read that kept the sexual tension high; the adventure exciting; and culminated with a fabulous love story.  Annalia and Court were really great together providing entertainment both when battling and definitely when loving.  Court thought Anna petulant and spoiled; she thought of him as an ungentlemanly barbarian; definitely the ingredients for a lively romance.  When Court finally discovered that Anna, the petite dainty beauty had courage, strengths and a passionate nature it brought out both the best in him as well as bringing him to his knees.   The lively mixture of secondary characters, from Court's brothers, his crew of comrades, and Pascal's daughter Olivia, were all well-defined adding additional layers of depth to this very sexy romance.  The dialogs, not only between the main protagonists but also between the numerous secondary characters were wonderful adding one more layer to this superb read!  The only thing I must say I don't like is having to wait another year for Hugh's story, which judging by the sneak peak at the back of the book looks to be another fabulous read and a worthy addition to this newest trilogy which is going to end up on my keeper shelf! --- Marilyn, for [...] <br /> <br />	2005-05-17
237748:US	45284807	R172DUGIJKB0N7	0373293402	827810306	Rake's Wager	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Original -- Good But Not Great	In an interesting regency tale, Cassia Penny is one of three sisters who inherit a gaming hell. Now three pious daughters of a minister wouldn't know anything about how to run one, but if it meant they could remain together after being tossed out of the vicarage, they would combine their individual strengths and set out to turn it into one of the more fashionable gaming houses in Regency England.<br /><br />The youngest sister, Cassia, had a gift for style and good taste, which was a talent that self-made millionaire, Richard Blakely was looking for as he returned home to England and to begin the refurbishment of Greenwood, a rundown estate he'd won from an impoverished Lord.  Turning Greenwood into a jewel was but step one of his life's plan, for the former son of a collier, in attracting and marrying a noble lady to grace his home and gain respectability. Having met Cassia before in what could only be termed a battle for a painting in an auction house, she could only feel disdain for the rake who outbid her. Cassia adamantly refused his offer of carte blanche to decorate his estate, so the only way he could convince Cassia to help him was by winning a wager that would grant him 30 days of her services.  He brought Cassia into his home to use her expertise in transforming the dilapidated estate, but it would be her honest and forthright manner that would be the key into transforming him into a new and better man!<br /><br />***  This was an interesting and original regency plot featuring three daughters of a minister actually running a gaming house.  Unfortunately, the main protagonists, featuring two very stubborn individuals, were hard to warm up to.  Cassia was the more stubborn of the two, while Richard who was so focused on what he thought was the culmination of a dream, couldn't focus on the real treasure that was in front of his eyes.  While the plot was original and the story touching at times, I found it too inconceivable that after they both openly discussed Richard's plans of marrying the Lady Anne, that a well brought up young woman, daughter of a minister, would sacrifice her virginity without any thoughts or regard of any kind of future with him. The reemergence of an illigetimate son he'd never known was glossed over so quickly it almost felt as thought it were added for word count.  I've read and enjoyed many of Ms. Jarrett's previous novels but unfortunately, this is not indicative of the talent I've seen her capable of.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---iscussed Richard's plans of marrying the Lady Anne, that a well brought up young woman, daughter of a minister, would sacrifice her virginity without any thoughts or regard of any kind of future with him. The reemergence of an illigetimate son he'd never known was glossed over so quickly it almost felt as thought it were added for word count.  I've read and enjoyed many of Ms. Jarrett's previous novels but unfortunately, this is not indicative of the talent I've seen her capable of.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-05-17
242356:US	45284807	R6OIUVMSQZ4XJ	0425201295	182509671	The Moon Witch (Fyne Witches, Book 2)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	SENSUALLY  OUTSTANDING - Fantasy/Paranormal	Juliet Fyne is the middle and plainest of the three Fyne sisters, all of whom are witches - each blessed, or cursed, with a unique magical gift. Juliet's gift is that of `sight' - being able to see the past and future of anyone she touches - except for herself.  Juliet would dearly love to be able to use her gift to better understand the nightmare that so torments her of claws and fangs that rip apart her body. Better yet, it would have been nice to have foreseen the attack and capture by the emperor's soldiers who broke into her home taking her and her sister Isadora prisoner before before they burned down the home that had belonged to the Fyne witches for centuries.<br /><br />Ryn, had for the last five years dreamt of a woman with fiery tresses, whose face was never clear, yet deep down knew would be his life's mate.  Lately the primal urge to find  and claim her was acute. Using his great strength and swiftness, it was a simple enough feat for him to snatch her from the clutches of her captors and carry her away. However, convincing Juliet that they were life mates would be a different story. The closer they came to reaching his home, Juliet began to change and long dormant desires began to surface that would be both exhilarating and terrifying to her as she discovered the truth of her parentage and her role in fulfilling an ancient prophecy.<br /><br />***  In a continuation of the Fyne Sisters trilogy the exhilarating adventures continue for all of the sisters, while Juliet discovers the true meaning of a mate for life in an all consuming love and sensually laden passion for Ryn.  Setting an exhilarating pace with non-stop action, the author whisks you from one segment to another weaving all three sisters lives in and out in this highly imaginative and brilliantly conceived trilogy.  The excitement of the progression of the passionate relationship between Juliet and Ryn along with what is going on with her two sisters is intricately woven together into one steamy and exciting tale.  It is a progressive build up that is certainly leaving this reader in extremely high anticipation of the next and final chapter of this series. Written in a marvelously clear and concise hand the author engages your imagination by painting vivid and delectable scenes that will completely mesmerize the reader.  It's been some time since I've so been totally captivated by such a brilliantly conceived series that, in spite of the threads that keep it well tied to one another, each can also completely stand-alone.  This is one fabulous read that lovers of the fantasy romance genre with highly sensual action are sure to enjoy!<br /><br />Marilyn, for [...]e steamy and exciting tale.  It is a progressive build up that is certainly leaving this reader in extremely high anticipation of the next and final chapter of this series. Written in a marvelously clear and concise hand the author engages your imagination by painting vivid and delectable scenes that will completely mesmerize the reader.  It's been some time since I've so been totally captivated by such a brilliantly conceived series that, in spite of the threads that keep it well tied to one another, each can also completely stand-alone.  This is one fabulous read that lovers of the fantasy romance genre with highly sensual action are sure to enjoy!  <br />Marilyn, for [...]  <br />	2005-05-13
243483:US	45284807	R3M6ZTS24NM173	0505526344	302334769	Follow Me	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Intriguing  Plot - Haunting Love Story	When you read the back cover of this debut novel by Mary Beth Bass I am sure you will be as intrigued with the plot as I was. A young successful woman has a boyfriend who is a handsome, well to do doctor who seemingly adores her, yet she can't seem to forget, and is haunted, by an episode of a wild night of sex that occurred seven years before with a dream lover she can only believe is a ghost?  Wow, now this seemed like a truly intriguing novel - what a concept!  Even though the author switched back and forth from modern day to the year 1824 quite rapidly, the story was intriguing enough to hold my interest.<br /><br />Claire Islington was trying to get on with her life, but memories of the passion and the subsequent feelings of familiarity of that one memorable night haunted her.  Her boyfriend, Ian, who I soon came to dislike intensely for his controlling maneuvers, pushed and prodded Claire for a commitment that she `felt' she should take, even though she could not shake the memory of her nineteenth century lover.  Living in the modern day, coincidences with things, and events of the past all seemed to keep Claire off balance and searching for something very elusive, though she always felt was there.<br /><br />It is also the story of a most intelligent woman, Kate Ishingham, trained in the very unladylike, for that era, profession as a physician. Not only did she want to practice medicine but she was also a brilliant researcher who was on the cusp of finding a cure for prevalent nineteenth century disease.<br /><br />Harcourt Abernathy was in love with, found, and then lost Kate - the woman of his dreams, the pulse that beat his heart, the elusive transient love that haunted him and then with the help of a `friend' he found again, in Claire.<br /><br />***  This was a complicated tale with a story within a story and the author switches back and forth giving the background of a hauntingly beautiful tale of two people destined as `soul mates' but didn't quite manage to have the life together that should have been theirs.  Oftentimes, I found it a bit tough to follow by the rapid story switching and a slower read as well as I reread passages trying to fit the pieces together, but regardless, the writing and the sensual quality of the story was superb.  As the two stories run parallel to one another, you are introduced to a plethora of intriguing characters from both eras and the clever twist that delivers a heart-wrenching and beautiful ending proving once and for all, that `love is enough.' --- Marilyn, for [...] ---dn't quite manage to have the life together that should have been theirs.  Oftentimes, I found it a bit tough to follow by the rapid story switching and a slower read as well as I reread passages trying to fit the pieces together, but regardless, the writing and the sensual quality of the story was superb.   As the two stories run parallel to one another, you are introduced to a plethora of intriguing characters from both eras and the clever twist that delivers a heart-wrenching and beautiful ending proving once and for all, that `love is enough.' --- Marilyn, for [...] ---  <br />	2005-05-12
247669:US	45284807	R3R6WMHAPSRJ1T	037329350X	144006423	Abbie's Outlaw	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Outstanding Writing!!	The Reverend John Leaf, was a reformed gun-slinger, had vowed celibacy and never, ever wanted to marry, but when he saw the red-headed woman stepping off the train thought - here was trouble -nothing but trouble.  The last time he'd seen Abbie was 15 years ago, naked holding a sheet against her as they were discovered together  by her  brother.  John had left that same day, half-heartedly offering to take Abbie with him, but relieved she didn't agree as he was pretty young himself back then.  Now, he was learning that he'd left behind a bit more than just a part of himself.<br /><br />Abigail Windsor, was widowed after enduring fourteen years of misery married to an abusive husband.  Even as he lay dying, the man had one last blow to inflict upon Abigail when he called their daughter Susannah to his bedside and told her that he was not her father, and gave her the file he'd kept on the outlaw Johnny Leaf. That last act of revenge caused Susannah to run from home in an attempt to locate the man who'd fathered her. In the process she would lead John's bitterest enemy to his door.<br /><br />Knowing she had to find Johnny again, Abigail didn't know what she'd feel for the man who'd left her, and had never known she was pregnant.  After years of marital abuse her thoughts on intimacy with any man were totally repugnant to her.  Now after seeing Johnny again she discovered they both had own demons to fight, John with his past, and Abigail's disastrous marriage to a depraved and abusive man.  Waiting for their daughter to arrive their passion for one another grew, and John and Abigail would learn of God's greatest gifts of love, healing and forgiveness.<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed this well-written story that comes straight from the heart with depth, compassion, beautiful sensuality and a whole lot of soul!  It will engage all your emotions and ultimately leave you- perhaps, with a tear or two in your eye - but totally satisfied.  John was a complex character, horribly abused by his father, becoming  a gunslinger for hire, bank robber, and killer who with the help of a guardian angel, called Silas, turned his life around and discovered God.  Never expecting more than peace, denying himself for years of any hope of love, Abbie re-entering his life proved to be his biggest torment and God's greatest gift.  Writen with incredible compassion containing tasteful sensuality, subtle humor, and a deep message of faith this author is definitely one that should be watched and read! Give yourself a treat and look up her other two titles as well - OF MEN AND ANGELS, and WEST OF HEAVEN - You won't be sorry!  --- Marilyn, for  [...] ---horribly abused by his father, becoming  a gunslinger for hire, bank robber, and killer who with the help of a guardian angel, called Silas, turned his life around and discovered God.  Never expecting more than peace, denying himself for years of any hope of love, Abbie re-entering his life proved to be his biggest torment and God's greatest gift.  Writen with incredible compassion containing tasteful sensuality, subtle humor, and a deep message of faith this author is definitely one that should be watched and read! Give yourself a treat and look up her other two titles as well - OF MEN AND ANGELS, and WEST OF HEAVEN - You won't be sorry!  --- Marilyn, for  [...] ---   <br />	2005-05-09
247952:US	45284807	R2JEWPCTATFSA0	0373293445	513940955	Falcon's Honor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Medieval Paranormal - Great Dialogs	Setting - Northern England, 1142 --- Lord Gareth of Faucon had made a vow to King Stephen to deliver the Lady Rhian to her family, but what seemed like a simple enough task one obstinate woman was turning into her own private war and Gareth was no longer sure who was winning!<br /><br />Rhian was determined that she would NOT be delivered into her unknown family's bosom.  From the rumors she'd heard of her mother's family they were nothing but evil devil worshipers and as they'd never made contact with her before, she was not about to go and marry some person she'd never met and been betrothed to at birth - no way, no how!<br /><br />Not only was Rhian herself fighting Gareth but it was apparent that they were being followed by assassins who also didn't want to see Rhian reach her destination and were neatly knocking off portions of her guard in a most grisly manner.  As the journey to Rhian's family progressed, Rhian and Gareth's attraction to one another heated up to where Gareth's vow to King Stephen to deliver Rhian safely was going to be as problematic of keeping her safe from the assassins as keeping her safe from himself.<br /><br />*** This certainly was an action packed medieval laden with a very passionate and seductive tone.  Both lead characters were well matched and the secondary characters added a pleasant spice and wit to the dialogs.  My one problem with this book was that the dialogs came off as a bit too contemporary for the period with instances of  `smart alec' remarks that just didn't fit in.  The very original plot kept it interesting what with the mysterious assassins purpose in why they were so intent on capturing Rhian, and the ending where all the many twists were all neatly tied up.  For a newer author, I believe that in given more time I am sure she will develop a more fluid prose that combined with her very clever and original plots will shoot her right up to the top of the heap in this medieval/paranormal genre. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---or [...] ---  <br />	2005-05-09
249026:US	45284807	R30WI8X3FK840L	0451215052	396053459	Where the River Runs	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Exceptional Read and An Outstanding Newer Author	When she was growing up Meridy McFadden Dresden was a free-spirited, dare devil, fun-loving tomboy. Meridy and her two best friends grew up enjoying and living in the Lowcountry of South Carolina and all through school were inseparable busily charting out a life after college - it was all perfectly planned out.  In one terrible moment all those fanciful dreams dissolved and her idyllic existence was changed in a matter of minutes with the death of her best friend killed in a tragic fire the night of their high school graduation.  It was a night that changed Meridy's life.<br /><br />Years later, Meridy is older, wiser and leads what appears to be a charmed life.  Married to a handsome successful lawyer, she has a beautiful son with an athletic scholarship to Vanderbilt, the perfect house, and a perfectly scandal free life.  Troubled, and looking for answers a trip back home would reopen wounds that had never healed as she discovered that the tragic events of that fateful night and the memories she buried along with her heart and who she was, have come back.  With the help of her old Gullah housekeeper Meridy rediscovers pieces of her past and a friend who forces her to confront the pain in order to deal with the challenges she faces in her future as she summons the courage to make a decision that may destroy a life she's worked so hard to protect - including her heart.<br /><br />***  As I write this review I question whether I can adequately put together the words ample enough to describe just how really great this book was.  The beautiful images evoked by this authors lyrical prose and the emotional intensity of feelings she invoked are what separates writers from passable to simply outstanding and it is in this latter category that this relatively new author stands.  This is simply an outstanding honest look at one woman's journey of rediscovering who she truly was as she discovered that you can return home again, especially if it means finding the most important things you seem to have lost along the way - like yourself.  This is definitely recommended reading for intelligent readers who want to bask themselves in a splendidly lyrical and heart tugging read!<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ----rtant things you seem to have lost along the way - like yourself.  This is definitely recommended reading for intelligent readers who want to bask themselves in a splendidly lyrical and heart tugging read!   <br /> <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ----	2005-05-07
254737:US	45284807	R3LG3L7MD35BC6	1594143285	996912057	My Lord Beast (Five Star Expressions)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Spellbinding!  Totally Awesome Read!!!	Aubrey Drelincourte, Earl of Breme racing towards his home after recovering from a bullet wound, a mauling by a leopard, and the effects of a full-blown case of malaria looked out the coach window to view a young woman blocking the middle of the road and halting his progress.  Lilias Merrit had stopped the racing coach to avert a potential disaster - warning them of children who were sledding down the side of the hill into the road around the bend.  Admiring her spunk in scolding his drivers, he watched her ride away, and casually mentioned to his companions that she should be considered as a possible candidate as his prospective bride but then thought better of it - he didn't want a bride he might care for.<br /><br />In an effort to protect the people of Breme from his cousin and heir Rupert Hindley, Aubrey's needed time - time before Rupert returned and notified the House of Lords to try Aubrey for the murder of his wife - a murder Aubrey, unfortunately, could not remember. His cousin was fast spreading venomous lies in an effort to prove him guilty of the murder of his unfaithful wife.  Before Aubrey would let that happen, he planned to marry and sire an heir in order to keep Castle Breme safe from his cousin's grasp.<br /><br />At around the same time, Lilias had discovered that her father was planning her betrothal to a man she knew was sadistic and cruel.  Running to her friends in the nearby gypsy camp, Lilias begged them to let her travel with them to Castle Breme where she was hired as a nurse/companion to the ailing earl.<br /><br />Fearing that the reason his loss of memory was that he was guilty of murdering his unfaithful wife, Aubrey fought his growing attraction to Lilias by being thoroughly disagreeable during the worst of his malarial symptoms.  He raged against the improprieties of a young woman being alone with him in a bachelor household all the while trying to distance himself from her.  Frightened yet intrigued by Aubrey, Lilias' main concern was to care for and relieve Aubrey of his suffering, never expecting to fall in love.  Eventually, she came to see the beauty of the man behind the disfiguring scars and tortured soul.<br /><br />*** This was a totally spellbinding and gripping story that I hated to put down.  The concept of the `beauty' who didn't see herself as attractive, and the man whose loss of memory and rare flashbacks made him think of himself as only a `beast' and monster was intriguing.  Lilias was an absolutely wonderful heroine, intelligent, brave, and strong with a totally non-existent sense of direction that will make you smile. Aubrey was that tortured hero that simply takes your breath away and I look forward to seeing his friend Ram Dass featured next with his very own story.  This romantic action packed tale should wind up on your keeper shelf as an extraordinarily wonderful and absolutely riveting read! --- Marilyn (...)elieve Aubrey of his suffering, never expecting to fall in love.  Eventually, she came to see the beauty of the man behind the disfiguring scars and tortured soul.     *** This was a totally spellbinding and gripping story that I hated to put down.  The concept of the `beauty' who didn't see herself as attractive, and the man whose loss of memory and rare flashbacks made him think of himself as only a `beast' and monster was intriguing.   Lilias was an absolutely wonderful heroine, intelligent, brave, and strong with a totally non-existent sense of direction that will make you smile. Aubrey was that tortured hero that simply takes your breath away and I look forward to seeing his friend Ram Dass featured next with his very own story.   This romantic action packed tale should wind up on your keeper shelf as an extraordinarily wonderful and absolutely riveting read! --- Marilyn (...)	2005-05-03
254979:US	45284807	R3CZIEEORSCJIF	037380220X	115313730	Gossamyr	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Lovely Fantasy - Poignant Love Story	Since childhood, Gossamyr de Wintershin a half faery, half mortal young woman knew that she would one day, in place of her father Shinn, rule over all of the fee in the Glamoursiege faery realm.  Being only half faery, Gossamyr felt the snub from the true fee and also knew that she would only be accepted after she was wed to a fee of her father's choosing, and even then....she would never be more than half faery.  She trained as a warrior and thus thirsted for a way to prove herself worthy of the impending honor.<br /><br />A dangerous succubus, the mysterious Red Lady resided outside the enchanted land in her lair in Paris.  This succubus was enticing the fee to her then would drain them of their essence. Upon the fee's death she would capture the last of their glimmer which  would then release the murderous revenants that found their way back to the Enchanted land to wreak havoc.  Because Gossamyr didn't have the Glamour of the true faery, but the wit and the fighting ability of a warrior, she was able to convince her father to let her travel to the Otherside, to take on the Red Lady and thereby save `her people'.<br /><br />Back in the land of mortals, Gossamyr is impressed with the lure of the Otherside and has hooked up with a traveling companion who tempts her mortal half. He is a mysterious mortal - a soul Shepard - who has his own agenda as he seeks his own truths.  In her quest to save her people, Gossamyr learns truths about herself, her lost lover, and her father that will inalterably alter her world forever.<br /><br />***  This was a very good story, though I admit finding it a tad difficult to get into. I thought more than once to put it aside as I was very confused by new terms and words used in the text, but as I became familiar with Hauf's writing style, it swiftly captured my interest as the action adventure and romance kicked in.  One caveat that bears mentioning is that I had read a description on the book, stating a blending history and fantasy for which I didn't find that much in the way of historical detail.  On the other hand, for the pure enjoyment of a beautifully presented fantasy tale with a memorable and likeable heroine; fascinating secondary characters; along with a poignant love story that will have you reaching for tissues throughout the last couple of chapters, this is surely the ticket!  --- Marilyn, for (...)---'t find that much in the way of historical detail.  On the other hand, for the pure enjoyment of a beautifully presented fantasy tale with a memorable and likeable heroine; fascinating secondary characters; along with a poignant love story that will have you reaching for tissues throughout the last couple of chapters, this is surely the ticket!   --- Marilyn, for (...)---	2005-05-03
255013:US	45284807	R16SKPWCV5KVVJ	0821777793	697175604	Unveiled (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Total Entertainment - Sexy and Amusing	Setting -  Derbyshire, England 1824 --  Miss Jane Rosemoor, at the age of five and twenty was a beautiful young woman who'd received countless offers of marriage during her many seasons in London  - and she'd turned them all down!  She was secretly afraid that a mysterious malady of madness and melancholy that afflicted several of the female members of her family would ultimately be her fate should she marry and bear children.  She was relatively content with her decision to remain a spinster up until the moment she met the outrageously arrogant and sinfully handsome Earl of Westfield<br /><br />Hayden Moreland, Earl of Westfield having lost so many people that he loved in his life had come to believe that he was cursed. Believing that if he loved, he would curse that  person and they would be taken from him, he refused to allow himself to get romantically involved --  thinking as to suffer another loss would be too much to bear.  He doesn't want romance, but he does need an heir and his young niece and ward needs a woman's guidance.  Thinking that Jane, as a twenty-five year old spinster, would be honored (and grateful) to accept what he was offering he proposed a `badly worded' and `insulting' proposal of marriage and was shocked that she turned him down flat!<br /><br />In spite of Hayden's denial of engaging his heart, and Jane's secret fear of eventual madness, the two had were bound to come to terms with an overwhelming passion and a love neither could deny.<br /><br />*** I loved this totally charming tale with it's lively scripted smart and sassy dialogs between the protagonists.  With vivid and amusing scenarios the pace was quick and the pages flew in this very lively romance.  Both protagonists were very well developed and displayed a great deal of strength and character.  Having had the pleasure of reading the authors debut novel UNLACED, this certainly proves that she is an author to watch showing a truly wonderful talent with her sexy and delectable writing style. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ctable writing style. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---   <br /> <br />	2005-05-03
255244:US	45284807	RNQ35RNLZH3B4	0843955295	779729962	The Cobra & the Concubine (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Intense - Emotional, and THRILLING	Setting - Egypt and England 1890's --- For Badra, her childhood ended early for at the age of 11 she had been sold as a slave to a maniacal sheik who raped and beat her unmercilessly for the next four years.  After an attack by an enemy tribe, the Khamsin, she and another slave begged the attackers to take them away promising to be slaves to a new master. The sheik of the Khamsin was kind and when Badra's terror of being touched by another man was revealed and Badra's history related to him by the other concubine, he assigned one of his finest warriors, Khepri, to be her Falcon guard, admonishing him that he should guard her with his life and let no one touch her including himself until she was ready.  For Khepri, this would be both a trial and a labor of love for he'd fallen head over heels with the beautiful young girl from the very first moments.  Over the next five years they would become friends with Khepri's feelings intensifying, and though Badra loved him, the memories of the pain of intimacy still held her hostage and kept her from admitting to Khepri how she felt.<br /><br />At around this time it was revealed that Khepri, only adopted by the Khamsin was Kenneth Tristan, English by birth and heir of a wealthy English Duke who came to claim him.  Not wanting to leave his Arab brothers, the desert, or woman he loved, he asked Badra to marry him only to be turned down. Devastated thinking Badra didn't love him, he turned his back on all he loved and went to England.  When he saw Badra a year later in England, he realized he still loved her, and when he discovered she was making the ultimate sacrifice to save a child, he would risk everything he possessed to save her, praying that he would one day be able to heal the woman he could not touch with his love.<br /><br />*** Once more this author has revisited Egypt with another exciting and thrilling tale featuring the Khamsin Warriors of the Wind, the women they loved and who loved them!  In this entry, the author tells the story of the young child Badra, sold to a brothel at the age of 4 by her parents then sold as a slave to cruel master who raped and brutalized her until at the age of 11 until she was lucky enough to escape.  (Unfortunately, a horrendous practice that while fictionalized here with a happy ending, still exists in the world today.)  This was an emotional as well as lovely romance with the lead protagonist's motives and feelings fully developed into characters whom the reader can truly empathize with. The action and suspense was well paced with just enough humor injected into the dialogs to add a little levity into the mix.  This author just sweeps you away with another exhilarating Egyptian romantic adventure. --- Marilyn , for  [...] ---author tells the story of the young child Badra, sold to a brothel at the age of 4 by her parents then sold as a slave to cruel master who raped and brutalized her until at the age of 11 until she was lucky enough to escape.  (Unfortunately, a horrendous practice that while fictionalized here with a happy ending, still exists in the world today.)  This was an emotional as well as lovely romance with the lead protagonist's motives and feelings fully developed into characters whom the reader can truly empathize with. The action and suspense was well paced with just enough humor injected into the dialogs to add a little levity into the mix.  This author just sweeps you away with another exhilarating Egyptian romantic adventure. --- Marilyn , for  [...] --- <br />	2005-05-03
265752:US	45284807	R14OGBZ3MH80W5	0821776495	50252050	Mostly A Lady (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fabulous Book - Wonderfully Original Series	Eliza Kent was beyond despair losing her husband, the farm they'd worked, then the babe in her belly one after the other.  Finally, finding a position in a stately home, she'd refused the advances of the master and then was turned away from her position with no references.  Cold, hungry, no where or anyone to turn to she set out to the Yorkshire moors with a rusty musket, thinking to at least end the misery that had become her life.  It seemed as though God laughed again at her predicament as the musket wouldn't fire so she set down to wait for the elements to take her and witnessed a barouche racing too fast along the road and watched helplessly as it crashed before her.<br /><br />There was nothing Eliza, could do for the driver nor the beautiful passenger who clung to her hand and soon died as well.  Reading a letter the woman carried, Eliza discovered she was a widow on her way to meet a family she'd never met before.  Eliza decided to assume the woman's identity and travel to London to be welcomed as the bereaved widow - that was, of course, as soon as someone discovered her in the wrecked coach.<br /><br />Two days later, Dylan Fergusson, restless after his latest romantic fiasco, left his sister and brother-in-law's Ducal estate at Longfield Park - heading back to Scotland. Coming upon the wrecked coach and the lone survivor, Dylan at once took charge arranging in the next town for someone to retrieve the bodies of the `lady's' coachman and companion for their burial. Dylan couldn't help but be attracted to the lovely widow, and brought her back to Longfield where he knew she would be embraced and pampered by his family after her ordeal.  Soon after Dylan had to admit feeling a lot more than just an attraction to the Lady Elizabeth, and agonized that after he brought her to the Ducal estate of Longfield Park, she'd think him a gentleman when he knew, though Oxford educated, he was but a prosperous farmer.  Deeply entrenched into her new identity, Eliza knew that she had to confess her identity, but would she lose the love of the most remarkable man when she did?<br /><br />*** This story was a fabulous addition to a most original series. The sheer poignancy of Eliza's turmoil over the trials fate dealt her as she assumed another's life brought many a lump to my throat.  Dylan was divine, though not of noble lineage he was every bit a prince, and these two protagonists were ideally suited as a couple.  This stands alone and while not necessary to read the previous novels for continuity, revisiting memorable characters from them as they played significant parts in this story was wonderful. This talented author depicts emotional tenderness, passion and inserts mystery in a most refreshing and delightful style that will entertain you from start to finish in a book (and series) I highly recommend. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---a knew that she had to confess her identity, but would she lose the love of the most remarkable man when she did? <br /> <br /> <br />*** This story was a fabulous addition to a most original series. The sheer poignancy of Eliza's turmoil over the trials fate dealt her as she assumed another's life brought many a lump to my throat.  Dylan was divine, though not of noble lineage he was every bit a prince, and these two protagonists were ideally suited as a couple.  This stands alone and while not necessary to read the previous novels for continuity, revisiting memorable characters from them as they played significant parts in this story was wonderful. This talented author depicts emotional tenderness, passion and inserts mystery in a most refreshing and delightful style that will entertain you from start to finish in a book (and series) I highly recommend. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---  <br />	2005-04-24
268257:US	45284807	R3D50B6P4B3DXW	0743466500	931268881	The Price of Pleasure	Books	5	43	48	N	Y	A Sensual Pleasure	At the age of 13, Victoria \\"Tori\\" Dearbourne, had learned to endure.  Surviving a shipwreck, Tori, her mother, who sustained a broken back and later died; and her governess Camelia \\"Cammy\\" Scott, would be marooned on a deserted island in the middle of Oceania for the next eight years. Living alone Tori developed skills of survival including building, hunting, and catching fish.  The one time they thought they might be rescued, the sailors attacked them and after Tori and Cammy barely escaped rape were left stranded once again.<br /><br />Grant Sutherland, is captain of the ship that has finally reached Tori's island, having been sent on the latest expedition in search of the missing Dearbourne family.  Spying the young woman racing across the beach, Grant was so surprised and overwhelmed at locating her he immediately raced after her.  With Tori's past experience with sailors, being far from pleasant, she was taking no chances on being caught and Grant found her eluding him at every turn. For the very unemotional and stodgy Grant, his experience with the very unladylike antics of Tori were hard to digest and yet, he couldn't help but feel powerless to prevent his imagination from running wild with desire for her.  The journey back to civilization would be a test of will as Tori battled Grant for his affections, and Grant battled his sense of propriety and honor over his passion for Tori!<br /><br />*** Kresley Cole has once again crafted a marvelous tale featuring the brother of Derek, her first hero in THE CAPTAIN OF ALL PLEASURES.  Grant was first introduced in helping to bring Derek and Nicole together and I looked forward to the promised sequel which proved him to be as hot and sensual as his brother, even if it took another very original and delightful heroine (Tori) to straighten him out and loosen him up!  The pace is quick, the adventure is both exciting and sensual, and the chemistry between the two was marvelous.  Additionally, you get to revisit some old friends from the first book, and have your appetite whetted for what looks like another adventure featuring cousin Ian who has mysteriously disappeared. I loved the original plot, delightful characterizations and excitement this author creates in a book that is sure to bring the reader plenty of `pleasurable' reading.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---me old friends from the first book, and have your appetite whetted for what looks like another adventure featuring cousin Ian who has mysteriously disappeared. I loved the original plot, delightful characterizations and excitement this author creates in a book that is sure to bring the reader plenty of `pleasurable' reading.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-04-22
271867:US	45284807	R1K9EHF9LAAB2E	0821778080	613632889	Lady Of The Knight (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	FABULOUS - FABULOUS - FABULOUS!!!!!	Morganna KilCreggar was only four when she witnessed the rape and murder of her mother and rape and beating of her sister at the hands of the FitzHughs.  Some years later, all of the KilCreggar clan would be dead and she alone, the only KilCreggar survivor made a vow to avenge their deaths.  She honed her skills with deadly weapons and was brilliantly accurate and deadly.  Being uncommonly tall and lean, she disguised herself as a young boy forsaking all signs of femininity but for her one indulgence of her long braid.<br /><br />Leading her `lads' onto a battlefield to retrieve what spoils were left, \\"Morgan\\" the leader was caught by a man who she'd thought was dead.  Alexander (Zander) FitzHugh was not only one of the biggest and broadest men she'd ever seen, but also the handsomest.  Taking what he wanted  Alex decided to take the boy \\"Morgan\\" and made him into his new squire.  Alex, saw what Morgannna wanted him to see, an angry and stubborn young lad.  Though not as hard as he portrayed himself to be Fitzhugh tried his best to break through his squire's surliness and discover what secrets he kept, all the while wondering at the strange attraction he felt for the young lad.<br /><br />As little by little, Zander managed to whittle down more of Morgan's distrust, she found she was not as immune to the big, arrogant, and  haughty warrior she had vowed to detest.  Soon Morgan fought not only her hatred of the dreaded FitzHugh clan but her unbidden desire to taste the forbidden fruits that the man represented  and who embodied all that she had sworn to destroy.<br /><br />*** I have read a tremendous amount of medieval and Scottish based novels and I have to say that Morganna KilCreggar has to be one of the most fabulously incredible heroines I have come across in some time.  Along with that, I must also say that the love story and Zander's `gift' to his bride, simply took my breath away.  This was one of the most  amazing and stunningly brilliant medievals I have had the pleasure to read this year.  The sexual tension and the intense emotion of this story will grip you from the beginning to the most delectable end! For a debut novel in the style of the great Woodiwiss and Henley, I have to tell them - move over there's a new kid on the block and she's about to steal your thunder!<br /><br />-- Marilyn, for [...] ---evals I have had the pleasure to read this year.  The sexual tension and the intense emotion of this story will grip you from the beginning to the most delectable end! For a debut novel in the style of the great Woodiwiss and Henley, I have to tell them - move over there's a new kid on the block and she's about to steal your thunder!  <br /> <br />-- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-04-19
274118:US	45284807	RRLGIQ3W3UH3K	0060726172	103842136	The Baker's Apprentice	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Gotta Love These Wacky Employee's	In the BAKER'S APPRENTICE, thirty-something Wynter Morrison first introduced in Hendricks debut novel BREAD ALONE, continues her saga of learning to survive after being  tossed out on her butt by a real `s _ _ thead' of an ex-husband. While this installment does not go into details of her previous married life it does discuss, how her ex continues to put the screws to her by holding up any kind of a `financial' settlement before the divorce goes through as she endeavors to start a new life for herself in Seattle.  In the meantime, Wynter has started over by living a much more Spartan existence than the pampered trophy wife life she'd led before.<br /><br />Documenting this latest period Wynter has become part owner of the bakery she found her greatest solace in - working the night shift and baking bread.  She has even found a new romantic interest of sorts in Mac, a bartender and aspiring author. Though the physical relationship (sex) is fabulous, Mac is not a nurturing kind of guy and keeps his past life and feelings inside, a condition that Wynter is not too crazy about. Just about the time Wynter is admitting to herself that she's in love with him, Mac announces he needs space and heads for Alaska.  If that wasn't enough, Wynter is also dealing with the eccentric and odd group of employees, their problems and lives while trying to keep her own life from once again falling apart.<br /><br />This was my first experience with this author, and while I can honestly say it was well-written, I did find it to be a bit on the slow side - much like a soap opera that just kind of goes on and on.  The characters were all, quite original, from the odd assortment of friends and workers in the bakery, to another bunch of eccentrics who live their lives up in the Yukon territory of Canada that Mac ran into.  When Wynter and Mac were together the sensuality was hot, yet it was more physical with not much feeling from Mac and it wasn't until he was away and started writing letters back to Wyn that he started to open up, with even that `openness' meager at best.  So, as far as the romance aspect in this went I would have to say - not the greatest.  In fact, I found Wyn's nurturing relationship with Tyler, her bread-making apprentice as more interesting than her romantic interest in Mac.<br /><br />So you ask, what was really great about this book was the saliva that grew in my mouth over some of the fabulously descriptive breads and foods being described and recipes provided and an urgent need to contact my travel agent for a trip to Seattle!  Now if a love affair was written as sensually as the food descriptions and preparations that could almost bring the reader to climax - you'd have the next GONE WITH THE WIND!  BOTTOM LINE - An interesting and original work that if not really heavy in the romance aspect - read it for the fabulous recipes!---Marilyn, for [...] ---letters back to Wyn that he started to open up, with even that `openness' meager at best.  So, as far as the romance aspect in this went I would have to say - not the greatest.  In fact, I found Wyn's nurturing relationship with Tyler, her bread-making apprentice as more interesting than her romantic interest in Mac.  <br /> <br />So you ask, what was really great about this book was the saliva that grew in my mouth over some of the fabulously descriptive breads and foods being described and recipes provided and an urgent need to contact my travel agent for a trip to Seattle!  Now if a love affair was written as sensually as the food descriptions and preparations that could almost bring the reader to climax - you'd have the next GONE WITH THE WIND!  BOTTOM LINE - An interesting and original work that if not really heavy in the romance aspect - read it for the fabulous recipes!---Marilyn, for [...] ---   <br />	2005-04-17
276304:US	45284807	R76ANIIRV83MR	0446614262	799930024	To Love a Thief (Warner Forever)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Regency Romance that Will Steal Your Heart!	Gideon Cole was a great talent and was making a name for himself as a barrister of some regard, hard working and vigilant he won most cases, unfortunately most of his clients were poor and unable to pay.  While it certainly added to his reputation, it wasn't supporting his efforts in winning him the hand of the current reigning queen of the ton, Lady Constance Clare.  With no title and little wealth his `master plan' to wed the wealthy daughter of a Marquis was running into roadblocks.<br /><br />Lily Masters, also had a great talent - that of picking pockets and it was this talent that had her surviving the streets of St. Giles and able to provide for herself and her 10 year old sister Alice.  She'd almost never been caught but that run of good luck was about to come to an end when she attempted to pick the pocket of Gideon.  She escaped his clutches but a day later, it would be Gideon who came to her rescue and used his last 30 pounds to buy her freedom from a sure trip to Newgate prison.<br /><br />Gideon offered Lily a proposition to repay her debt in posing as the cousin of his friend and pretending to be Gideon's new love interest.  Gideon was hoping that Lily (who he'd noticed was ever so much more beautiful after she'd been cleaned up) would give Lady Constance a case of jealousy and make the way to his asking her to wed that much easier.  Unfortunately, as Gideon molded Lily into her new role, Lily slipped under his hard shell exterior and found the caring and gentle man beneath that was just beginning to realize that his `master plan' had one great flaw in it - it hadn't allowed for a little thief to steal his heart.<br /><br />*** With this latest novel by the author of RUNAWAY DUKE, Ms. Long proves that she is not a one-book wonder as she writes a totally charming and wholesome tale that will leave the reader sighing in great contentment.  Her depiction of Lily, smart, strong and compassionate was brilliant and well quite literally, this `thief' will steal your heart.  While Gideon kept up the pretense of wanting so much to triumph with his `master plan' the author softens your view of him with a deft hand that captures him in a perfectly poignant mood.  I confess it brought tears to my eyes.  In addition, she supports the story with a wonderful cast of secondary characters that will enchant the reader in this wonderful new entry.  I highly recommend both this book and this author to be put on most  romance lovers `auto-buy' lists.<br /><br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] ---' will steal your heart.  While Gideon kept up the pretense of wanting so much to triumph with his `master plan' the author softens your view of him with a deft hand that captures him in a perfectly poignant mood.   I confess it brought tears to my eyes.  In addition, she supports the story with a wonderful cast of secondary characters that will enchant the reader in this wonderful new entry.  I highly recommend both this book and this author to be put on most  romance lovers `auto-buy' lists.  <br /> <br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-04-15
284473:US	45284807	R2IJTLCNIYRB5W	0060505753	947504777	The Truth About Love: A Cynster Novel (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	A Good Read - Lovely Prose - Sensually Inspiring	In a return to the captivating world of the Cynsters, Laurens continues the saga with Gerrard Debbington, brother-in-law to Vane Cynster who married his sister Patience.  Gerrard who has now had the good fortune to grow and prosper under the Cynster tutelage has become a much sought after painter.  Wealthy in his own right, he chooses only those projects that inspire him. When the opportunity to paint the fabulous gardens, rumored to exist but seldom viewed, at the reclusive Lord Tregonning's Hellebore Hall he is tempted beyond measure, but with that opportunity comes a price.  The catch to painting the gardens only comes if Gerrard agrees to paint an honest portrait of Lord Tregonning's daughter Jacqueline.  Gerrard hated the idea of bargaining this one point, but when push came to shove, the chance to see and be allowed into the gardens was too much to pass up.<br /><br />Jacqueline Tregonning, is twenty-three and  Gerrard knew in a glance that this was a woman who would be able to arouse him as no woman ever had. He was captivated at once by not only her beauty, but her cool reserve.  What he would soon discover were the layers of her reserve hid a frightened and complex personality that he would soon have the opportunity to free.  Within the beautiful gardens of Hellebore Gerrard finds an evil that lurked in the shadows that he would have to conquer before he could liberate the woman he'd come to believe was his soulmate and would inspire him to believe in the truth about love.<br /><br />*** In reading the diverse reviews of love and hate this book has caused I will honestly say that Ms. Laurens has not lost her touch with creating beautiful love stories with dynamic and totally dreamy heroes.  It is slower than some of her more action sub-plots but the vividness of her descriptive prose in setting the stage and her more than adequate sultry seductions are well worth the read.  I was somewhat surprised at the ending and identity of the villain and the ending was poignant enough to have me reaching for tissues.  While I will not say it was a great read, it is a good read, and the pure pleasure of revisiting the noble Cynsters will always be a draw for me. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---g was poignant enough to have me reaching for tissues.  While I will not say it was a great read, it is a good read, and the pure pleasure of revisiting the noble Cynsters will always be a draw for me. --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-04-08
288165:US	45284807	R2W99P7QOTRJXV	0515139483	610175737	Dreams of Stardust	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	FABULOUS - Kurland Takes Time Travel to New Heights	Jackson \\"Jake\\" Kilchurn IV has not had the best of days, starting with getting mugged on his way to deliver papers as a favor for his father to Gideon dePiaget.  While sitting in Gideon's office Jake has the weirdest sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu while gazing at a pastoral scene with a castle (Artane) in the background.  Later he is coerced into driving to Artane to get a needed signature from Gideon's father. Along the way, Jake gets lost in the fog and winds up some miles away at Seakirk, the home of  Kendrick and Genevieve dePiaget,  where Worthington, their butler makes him comfortable in offering the stranded traveler a bed for the night.<br /><br />Joking with the butler over the lack of security, Worthington assures Jake with a cryptic nod that `the lads' were ample enough security.  Later Jake realizes that `the lads' were actually ghosts complete with swords and medieval armor who not only appeared to him but carried on conversations arguing over who was the most beautiful woman of their acquaintance and thought Jake nuts that he didn't know!!<br /><br />The following day, Jake, again on the road to Artane, lost control of his car and the next thing he remembered was waking up in a medieval castle, minus most of his clothes, and seeing the most beautiful woman in his life, Amanda dePiaget, and the year is 1227.<br /><br />Amanda feels an undeniable pull towards the stranger in spite of the fact that he, cannot speak their language, ride a horse or wield a sword. As time goes by Jake wins over her brothers, even Robin her most beastly and oldest brother, and though attracted, knows that her father would never hand her over to a mere merchant.  Jake is aware that he must find a way back to his own time to convert his wealth into something medieval that can buy him a title and be able to offer for the woman who has stolen his heart.<br /><br />*** Lynn Kurland in my estimation is a fabulous author who makes the time travel genre her very own!  Over the years, she has written several tales of the dePiaget and MacLeod families and they just seem to get better and better every time.  I was so thrilled to re-visit all the old `haunts' especially Kendrick and Genevieve from one of my personal favorites, STARDUST OF YESTERDAY, to find that this ties right in with that tale though both are completely stand-alone reads.  In this latest, while Amanda dePiaget is beautiful as the lead heroine, it truly is Jake's story.  It is emotional, it is funny and it is so fabulously romantic - this being no small feat when you consider that there were virtually no sexual `encounters' between the protagonists until..... and you will have to read this to find out!  This is an absolutely MARVELOUS read that will be generating a host of new fans scurrying around trying to locate  Kurland's backlists! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---, she has written several tales of the dePiaget and MacLeod families and they just seem to get better and better every time.  I was so thrilled to re-visit all the old `haunts' especially Kendrick and Genevieve from one of my personal favorites, STARDUST OF YESTERDAY, to find that this ties right in with that tale though both are completely stand-alone reads.  In this latest, while Amanda dePiaget is beautiful as the lead heroine, it truly is Jake's story.  It is emotional, it is funny and it is so fabulously romantic - this being no small feat when you consider that there were virtually no sexual `encounters' between the protagonists until..... and you will have to read this to find out!  This is an absolutely MARVELOUS read that will be generating a host of new fans scurrying around trying to locate  Kurland's backlists! --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-04-06
288344:US	45284807	R7J4PN8CLT9BL	0373770065	163839408	The Butler Did It (HQN Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Entertaining Madcap and Zany Characters	When Lord Drummond, the Marquis of Westham, left London five years before, he expected that when he did decide to return, his unflappable butler and staff would have the property in tiptop condition.  What he hadn't expected was that his butler, would have decided to rent out said property as both a way to keep busy and make a few extra pounds on the side by renting to an impoverished genteel family, a con man, and a wealthy ex-seamstress with a formidable appetite.  The last thing the butler expected was to see the Marquis quit his rusticating in the country and come back to town without warning  to take in the season.<br /><br />Emma Clifford knew she had to find a wealthy husband, and in order to do that she and her madcap family needed a respectable address to stay at during the season. The residence of the Marquis of Westham was perfect. As Morgan attempts to regain his house to himself, he finds himself mire deep in mayhem and wacky people.  Before he knows it, he is black-mailed into escort duty, hosting a ball, and a series of madcap adventures.  To top it all off he is doing his best to deny an irresistible attraction to the very lovely Miss Clifford even if it means embracing her madcap relatives.<br /><br />*** This was an amusing and often times ridiculous yet funny regency tale.  The  plethora of zany characters and their madcap antics from the lowest maid to the once unflappable butler, who met his match, were highly amusing as well as the witty dialogs that will have you chuckling right out loud. The romance between Morgan and Emma was lovely. Of all of these players, though one must give a prize to Fanny Clifford, as one of the most outrageous grandmother's of all time.  I can't say it is a keeper, but will certainly provide you with a very entertaining read!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---<br /><br />.	2005-04-05
295292:US	45284807	R3GLB9PAWLJM8M	0821777890	980476854	The Counterfeit Countess (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly Entertaining - 4-1/2 * Read	Arriving in the middle of the night, Maggie, the countess of Warwick descended upon the Warwick London house, along with her younger sister, a maid, fourteen trunks and one huge cat.  Edward, the Earl of Warwick, roused from his bed by the noise all the ruckus found a beautiful woman, most definitely a diamond of the first water, ordering all his servants around.<br /><br />Maggie looked up to see a gorgeous alpha male standing bare-chested on the stairs, and demanded to know who he was, just as he was demanding to know who she was.  Discovering that her dead husband, `The Scoundrel', had lied by passing himself off as the Earl of Warwick and that she was `not' the countess, Maggie promptly dissolved into tears. [A very useful ploy - as she tried to think what on earth she would do next - having little money and no where else to go.]  Naturally, the one thing Edward couldn't abide were the tears of a woman, realizing that her dead husband had been the traitor, Lawrence Henshaw, who had been leaking information to the French, Edward allowed them to spend the night. Reporting the next day to the Foreign Office he  was ordered by his superiors to keep the widow close in order to discover if she could lead them to whomever her husband had been selling his information to.<br /><br />Though Edward had committed to and was in love (or so he thought) with Lady Fiona Hollingsworth, his intended, he was finding this counterfeit countess to have a very disconcerting effect on him.  The more time spent with Maggie the more Edward questioned his feelings for his intended and when a thunderstorm drove Maggie into his arms, the tempest of the storm ignited the passion between them from which there was no return.<br /><br />***  This was a first time introduction to this author for me and it proved to be a very enjoyable and entertaining reading experience. The writing was fresh, the characters a delight, with a fast and lively pace.  The sensual buildup and the sexual encounters were tastefully done and the mystery of who the traitor was will keep you guessing right up to the end.  Maggie was a wonderfully intelligent powerhouse of a heroine and the buildup of the merging of two souls who were meant for one another was terrific.  The secondary characters, including the antics of one very fat cat, only added to the total enjoyment of this highly recommended novel.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ounters were tastefully done and the mystery of who the traitor was will keep you guessing right up to the end.  Maggie was a wonderfully intelligent powerhouse of a heroine and the buildup of the merging of two souls who were meant for one another was terrific.  The secondary characters, including the antics of one very fat cat, only added to the total enjoyment of this highly recommended novel.   --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-03-31
298911:US	45284807	R3VKY06YYQPCPU	0505525968	570245232	Girl on the Run	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Entertaining and Fun Read	In continuing the saga begun in SHE WHO LAUGHS LAST, author Klassel returns to the land of Dominion several years later as Lord Eben, the young brother of Lady Syrah is all grown up and being of the `blind booby' persuasion, seemingly oblivious of the young Lady Kaia who has also grown up into a beautiful young woman.<br /><br />Lady Kaia from the age of three had adored Eben all her life, extracting a promise from him that he would `pwomise to mwarry her when she would be all gwown up'.  Naturally, Eben still considers her as a second little sister, she and Morgana, his own little sister, being inseparable.  Both Kaia and Eben had for a time tried to out-prank each other, worms in her bath, and sewing his sheets together - all  in fun but as they grew older, the pranks while amusing had Eben continually coming to her rescue.<br /><br />After Kaia  had been sent to a convent in an effort to curb her mischievous ways and turn her into a proper young woman ready to marry, have babies, etc. according to her buffoon of a father.  Kaia's fondest dream was to learn to read and write the one thing forbidden by her father.  Having lost all hope of Eben ever recognizing her as a woman other than his `little one', Kaia encounters a kindly monk, a talking dog who turns out to be none other than the mystical \\"Merlin\\", and sets out with them for a circle of stones in the Western lands.  Once there she could be transported into the future where she could choose her own husband and learn to read!<br /><br />Once again Eben is sent out on the trail to rescue and return Kaia to her home. Along the way, they encounter Eben's worst enemy, other run-aways, and the entire escapade turns out to be a merry chase with eye-opening revelations for both Eben and Kaia.<br /><br />*** As a sequel to SHE WHO LAUGHS LAST, it can and does stand-alone.  Again, Klassel gives you some interesting characters, loads of chuckles and a fun look at her interpretation of the infamous Merlin from the Arthurian legends.  While I did feel the chase did get a bit on the drawn out side, the author did manage to fill the pages with other interesting tidbits that were interesting, such as the sub-plot of bringing down the odious Gyp from her original debut novel.  Another, thing that was entertaining was the feeling of the realism of the middle ages even though the locales were fictitious. While I would have liked to have seen a bit more romance, those episodes that did occur were very pleasant and as a whole gave off a lightened sensual awareness. This was a very nice installment to Klassel's Dominion series that I can certainly give a thumbs up to.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---lin from the Arthurian legends.   While I did feel the chase did get a bit on the drawn out side, the author did manage to fill the pages with other interesting tidbits that were interesting, such as the sub-plot of bringing down the odious Gyp from her original debut novel.  Another, thing that was entertaining was the feeling of the realism of the middle ages even though the locales were fictitious. While I would have liked to have seen a bit more romance, those episodes that did occur were very pleasant and as a whole gave off a lightened sensual awareness. This was a very nice installment to Klassel's Dominion series that I can certainly give a thumbs up to.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-03-28
299551:US	45284807	R35X7OV70ZI2E5	0843952318	645581525	She Who Laughs Last	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lots of Chuckles in this Debut - Fun Read	In her delightful debut, Klassel has created a middle ages historical setting in the kingdom of Dominion comprised of lesser twenty-seven different domains called Houses.  This story centers on Lady Syrah, the eldest daughter of the Ninth House, who has made repeated requests of the king to protect her and her brother from the evil machinations of their cousin, who has used the debilitating illness of her father as an excuse to move in and take over their castle and domain.  After the cousin makes attempts to force himself on Syrah, using a forged betrothal document her addled father doesn't remember signing, she escapes along with her brother, father and a couple of loyal family retainers.  Dropping out of sight, they concocted a ruse that made it look as though the family had perished at sea.<br /><br />Determined to regain the family estate for the young brother Eben, whom she felt responsible for, the two siblings devised an elaborate and wholly amusing plan to kidnap Jibril, the crown prince of Dominion and ransom him back to the king whom Syrah believed had forsaken her.  The plan was to raise enough funds to hire a mercenary to oust her evil cousin from their home and regain it for her brother.  The fact that Jibril had been the love of Syrah's young life (charmingly described in the prologue) ever since she met him at the age of 13, her treatment of him as her prisoner was a total joy as they matched wits against one another in both games of chess and love!<br /><br />***  In reading SHE WHO LAUGHS LAST, the debut novel for Jennie Klassel, it was certainly easy to see why she was the winner in the National Contest sponsored by Romantic Times Bookclub and publishing.  She created dynamite characterizations from the lead protagonists right down to the lowliest of guards and maids who were so totally endearing that it would be hard to say just who you liked the best - and believe me there were an enormous amount of secondary characters here to choose from as well as the two totally delightful leads. I have to admit that the 14-year-old brother Eben with his tall tales, usually centering around dromedaries, was so funny I often found myself chuckling out loud.  Lady Syrah was a totally divine lead who was fashioned brilliantly with intelligence, a lovely sensual aura, and a charming sense of humor.  The entire ensemble of supporting characters, a beautiful plot, and vivid sensual emotions, made this a fun read and a book that I can highly recommend.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---as well as the two totally delightful leads. I have to admit that the 14-year-old brother Eben with his tall tales, usually centering around dromedaries, was so funny I often found myself chuckling out loud.  Lady Syrah was a totally divine lead who was fashioned brilliantly with intelligence, a lovely sensual aura, and a charming sense of humor.  The entire ensemble of supporting characters, a beautiful plot, and vivid sensual emotions, made this a fun read and a book that I can highly recommend.  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-03-28
302292:US	45284807	R1Z72JJAO1YZF3	006056167X	418033588	Just One Touch (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wildly Romantic and Touching 4-1/2*	Rogan Hunt had been known as a notorious wastrel with a disreputable history. Since coming home from the war he was determined in rebuilding his family's ruined estate and once renowned stables.  Racing though the night to let off steam and drive the beasts away that tormented him, he came upon a lady in distress being accosted by brigands. The damsel was the very beautiful and reclusive Lady Caroline Ware, whom he'd admired from afar, so naturally, he pulled off a most dramatic rescue.<br /><br />At the age of fifteen Lady Caroline had been abducted and held for ransom for four days before Bow Street had rescued her.  That ordeal had left her emotionally scarred and  terrified of a man's touch.  As she was delivered home to her father, the ailing Duke of Belvingham, couldn't help but notice the significance of his daughter actually accepting the hand of Rogan Hunt as helped her alight from the coach.  She hadn't touched the hand of any man in over five years. Knowing he was dying, and wanting to provide for his daughter's protection, the duke summoned and presented Rogan with a proposition he felt the man would jump at, one that included the hand of his daughter.  Rogan who had harbored his own demons refused the offer until the duke explained that he was being poisoned and feared for his daughter's safety should his despicable heir have control of her fortune.  Rogan knew he would do anything he could to protect her, even if it meant protecting her from himself.  Unfortunately, Rogan's challenge would be protecting them all from an insidious evil before their love and a gentle touch would heal them both.<br /><br />*** What follows is one of the more romantic and touching tales I have had the pleasure of reading this year, as Rogan and Caroline come to learn the meaning of trust and allowing their hearts into one another's keeping.  Both the main protagonists were so beautifully fleshed out that the reader will at once find themselves swept up into the emotions of trust and caring that was so evident in the pages. The suspense was palatable and will keep the pages turning into a non-stop read.  Wonderful writing completes this marvelous love story that I highly recommend.  BRAVA Ms. Mullins on a truly passionate and most romantic love story!<br /><br />---  Marilyn, for [...]  ----motions of trust and caring that was so evident in the pages. The suspense was palatable and will keep the pages turning into a non-stop read.  Wonderful writing completes this marvelous love story that I highly recommend.      BRAVA Ms. Mullins on a truly passionate and most romantic love story!   <br /> <br />---  Marilyn, for [...]  ----	2005-03-25
302854:US	45284807	R80RME60812LL	0060543256	329679917	Sin and Sensibility (The Griffin Family)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Another Risque Regency from A Master!	Lady Eleanor (Nell) Griffin felt stifled. With three elder brothers, including His Grace, the duke of Melbourne, it seemed she couldn't make a move without their approval while they kept a watchful eye on everyone she met, or spoke to - at least the ones that were even allowed within her sphere.  Nothing was her decision, and at twenty-one she knew they would soon be picking out some totally boring and crusty old lord for her to marry.  Finally Nell decided to assert herself.  She was of age and announced her own `declaration of independence' in that she was going to make her own decision as to whom she would, or would not, marry.<br /><br />Her brother, the Duke of Melbourne decided he would allow her streak of independence only on condition that her actions did not result any scandal be attached to the Griffin name, otherwise she would be married to whomever he chose for her.  He called in a favor from an old school chum, the renowned rake, Valentine Corbett, the Marquis of Deverill, to keep tabs on his spirited sister. If it seemed like he was letting a fox into the henhouse, Melbourne knew and counted on his best friend acting honorably towards his sister.<br /><br />Nell had secretly harbored a crush on the dashing Marquis for years and secretly wanted to emulate the freedom and lifestyle he had - within boundries, of course.  Alas, she knew she wanted an adventure, just wasn't sure what that adventure entailed, and Valentines sudden friendship was perfect as he seemed willing to be her guide in whatever adventure she choose. Val hadn't counted on how painful paying off his debt to Melbourne was going to be, as he began to see Nell in a new light and his body was reacting to her as more than just the little sister of his best friend!<br /><br />***  Enoch has created another entertaining and risqu&eacute; regency tale with a delightful set of protagonists that I thoroughly enjoyed. While it held no surprises as to the outcome, her engaging dialogs, fresh and vibrant writing style, and likeable characters made this experience a real pleasure.  Valentines metamorphous from callous rake to discovering he had a heart was truly lovely and his declaration of love - very romantic.  Frankly, I totally enjoyed the entire brood of Griffin siblings, especially six-year old Peep, and certainly hope that the author has plans to capitalize on continuing with stories for Sebastian, Charlemagne, and Zachary who now should concentrate on getting their own love lives in order.<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---vibrant writing style, and likeable characters made this experience a real pleasure.  Valentines metamorphous from callous rake to discovering he had a heart was truly lovely and his declaration of love - very romantic.    Frankly, I totally enjoyed the entire brood of Griffin siblings, especially six-year old Peep, and certainly hope that the author has plans to capitalize on continuing with stories for Sebastian, Charlemagne, and Zachary who now should concentrate on getting their own love lives in order.  <br />  <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-03-24
304125:US	45284807	R3U89ZDIKOJX4O	0843953241	393087118	The Chase	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fabulously Funny Medieval!	Setting - Scotland, 1395 -- Seonaid Dunbar had her fill of waiting for her errant betrothed to finally come and claim her - ten years of waiting and now she heard he was finally on his way! Well, it might be all right for some to wait and feel privileged that the celebrated \\"Angel\\" were on his way to claim her for his bride, but not this lass.  Trained as a warrior and able to handle weapons as well as a man, she'd enter a nunnery first!<br /><br />Lord Blake Sherwell, so beautifully handsome was nicknamed the \\"Angel\\" and was in no hurry to claim his betrothed - not at all, but when the king issued an ultimatum he had no choice.  Discovering that his betrothed had fled the keep he and his entourage were led on a merry romp as they chased, caught, and chased, and caught, and chased over again his very Amazon like bride.  Seonaid was obviously not impressed with him and this certainly piqued Blake's interest who'd never before been the one to do the pursuing, or overcome sleeping draughts, chaos, or fight sword wielding naked amazons.  He might be a warrior of some reknown himself, but battling his betrothed to the wedding bed was about to bring him to his knees.<br /><br />***  Ah, I am so happy to see Lynsay Sands back writing where she left off in the medieval realm after THE DEED, and THE KEY which were two of the most hilarious medieval tales I have ever read!  Her outrageously funny humor, deliciously vivid characters, and wildly romantic encounters are purely Lynsay and she's definitely the master in that genre!  The pages of this latest story will just fly by while you find it to be so much fun and wildly romantic you just won't want to see it end!  Oh, welcome back to the historical realm Lynsay!<br /><br />-- Marilyn, for [...]	2005-03-23
305544:US	45284807	R1G8WODW2JY60B	0446614254	365093099	The Runaway Duke (Warner Forever)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Great Debut Novel	Since she was a small child, the irrepressible Rebecca Tremaine was a handful and it was not a surprise that she would never be termed a proper young lady.  She eschewed all things that a proper young woman should have excelled at, embracing instead, all manner of knowledge gleaned from her father's scientific journals and acquiring much more knowledge of the human body than should have.  It was simply by accident that she ended up compromised by a visiting dandy she abhorred and was now about to be forced to enter into a hasty marriage.  At the last minute, she turned to the one man who had always been there for her, the groom Connor Riordan to help her escape.<br /><br />Connor was good at escaping, having been mistakenly identified as being killed Waterloo, Connor who was the fifth Duke of Dunbrooke, was happy to disappear into obscurity. He probably wouldn't have stayed as a groom as long as he had if it hadn't been for the young lass who now came to him for help.  Some things just didn't die with his `death' at Waterloo and in spite of posing as a groom the true gentleman he was would always help a lass in distress and at her request for help, he managed her escape.<br /><br />During their adventurous escape, as they were pursued by highwaymen, Rebecca's now smitten fianc&eacute;, and a scheming and murderous duchess, Connor was fast realizing that the child he'd cared for had grown up and was now a beautiful and desirable woman. He just might have to forego his dreams of obscurity and bring himself back from the dead to save Rebecca from those that wanted to keep them apart by reclaiming the dukedom he had forsaken.<br /><br />*** I originally thought this was going to be one of those cute humorous regencies, but was quite pleasantly surprised to find that this was so much more!  The author crafted her protagonists into full dimensional and truly remarkable people that were so very real. Not only the protagonists, but all the secondary characters were crafted with exceptional depth.  I truly liked this gal's writing and this delightful debut novel is landing squarely on my `keeper' shelf as I will certainly be looking for more from this author!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---d with exceptional depth.  I truly liked this gal's writing and this delightful debut novel is landing squarely on my `keeper' shelf as I will certainly be looking for more from this author!   --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-03-22
311138:US	45284807	R27FE2WFFYWSAH	0843953926	584394648	The Lady Doth Protest (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Impressive Story Telling - Original	Lady Megge was tired of being treated and bartered off as no more than a prize as a political favor for the King.  Betrothed eight times since the age of nine, she'd been married and widowed three times and was yet still a virgin.  Hearing that King Edward was again looking to find her a husband Megge felt she'd been docile enough and was bound and determined to finally take control of her own destiny.<br /><br />By convincing the woman in Flete Castle, where she was the ward of Lord Humphrey, that they too had the right to demand more for themselves she convinced them to join with her in retaking her inheritance of Castle Rising.  Megge explained that they could all have what they most fervently desired by withholding sexual favors and forcing their men folk to take notice. Even though still a virgin, she'd seen and heard enough to know that this alone could drive a man to his knees if they were not relived often enough.<br /><br />King Edward sent his most formidable knight Sir Olyver to lay down a siege at the castle gates.  Castle Rising was supposedly an unassailable fortress, but it would take Olyver more cunning than he'd learnt during his war campaigns to assail the beautiful and intelligent mistress who had already captured his heart!<br /><br />*** This was a truly imaginative tale by a new author whom I plan to watch carefully.  It was well written with witty dialogs and wonderfully crafted secondary characters featuring some really lovely relationships between the women as well as the main protagonists that were all quite endearing.  You won't find a huge amount of explicit sex scenes but instead a lot of implied sexual activity that tends to get quite humorous.  The negotiating correspondence that was written, along with the additional insinuated comments, were enormously funny and I found myself chuckling quite a bit in Klassels latest romp thru the middle ages.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-03-18
319794:US	45284807	R376NEIFP6SRFF	0345459954	578133441	Heart of the Flame: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Clear Some Time to Read this Non-Stop Romantic Thriller	In the HEART OF THE FLAME, medieval romance author Tina St. John continues her latest trilogy with the second installment featuring the former Templar knight, Kenrick of Clairmont.  After spending six months in the dungeon of an evil foe (Silas de Mortaine) who commands and unleashes deadly shape shifters to track down the legendary Dragon chalice, Kenrick is bound and determined to recover the chalice himself and thwart his vile foe's efforts.<br /><br />Sometime after recuperating from his ordeal Kenrick traveled to the keep of a good friend whom he'd asked to safeguard an artifact that could lead to another part of the Dragon chalice. What he'd found was burnt out desolation, his friend and family having been slaughtered and buried.  While there he discovered a woman, more dead than alive - obviously a survivor of the attack whom he rescued and brought to his home to question.  The woman called herself Haven but couldn't remember the attack and little else of her own background.  Kenrick, desperate for answers and leery of her story wasn't sure whether or not to trust her.  As she recuperated Kenrick fought being drawn to the exquisite woman he'd found beneath the rags.  She was obviously a lady with a regal bearing and the passion that sprang up between them proved to be as fiery as her beauty.<br /><br />Although Haven couldn't recall much of the raid she felt sadness and guilt at the loss of her friends. Nightmares of being strangled and stabbed by a faceless enemy were only part of the images and strange feelings that were slowly coming back to her.  It wasn't until she met up with a dangerous enemy, that the truth of that terrible night would come as a shock that reawakened her suppressed memories and the horror of who,  and what,  she was. Loving Kenrick as she did, Haven was torn, knowing that it was she who had brought death and carnage to the people she'd befriended and that to stay placed the very man she'd come to love in mortal peril.<br /><br />***  As Kenrick and Haven's story unfolds tense excitement is immediately generated by this exciting page-turner that will have the reader hooked from the first page with the mystery of Haven's true identity and lasting through to the very last page. Intrigue, romance, fantasy and the test of a true and selfless love will be sure to please in this sensually packed romantic thriller. This is one of those books that the reader will find hard to lay aside complete with appealing characters and cleverly woven intrigues and a highly anticipated longing for the next installment as good versus evil in the quest for the `Dragon Chalice'.  Clear the time to sit down and enjoy this wonderfully exciting and fully enjoyable installment of St. John's latest trilogy.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---/>***  As Kenrick and Haven's story unfolds tense excitement is immediately generated by this exciting page-turner that will have the reader hooked from the first page with the mystery of Haven's true identity and lasting through to the very last page. Intrigue, romance, fantasy and the test of a true and selfless love will be sure to please in this sensually packed romantic thriller. This is one of those books that the reader will find hard to lay aside complete with appealing characters and cleverly woven intrigues and a highly anticipated longing for the next installment as good versus evil in the quest for the `Dragon Chalice'.  Clear the time to sit down and enjoy this wonderfully exciting and fully enjoyable installment of St. John's latest trilogy.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---  <br />	2005-03-11
322221:US	45284807	RSPC4Z8TAHLPR	0060502827	528726200	The Princess and Her Pirate	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Total Fun Read!	In this very amusing read Princess Tatiana has with the help of a very trusted advisor, put a body double in her palace to take her place while she set out on a secret quest to negotiate an alliance with a man whom she'd heard was a strong and able leader, Cairn MacTavish - the famous `Pirate Lord'. The alliance she planned to propose to him was that of marriage. Seasick and shaken, things simply did not go her way when after a terrible voyage, she was separated from her bodyguard and robbed of her valise holding proof of her identity.  Attempting to hold back the nausea she had been holding in since reaching land she ran after the thief when she bumped into none other than the Laird of Teleere, Cair MacTavish himself. He insisted that she was the ever-slippery thief `Magical Megs' who had once stolen his brooch and he was not about to let her slip through his fingers again, and then to her great mortification - she vomited all over him then passed out.<br /><br />Who was this Magical Megs?- Cairn MacTavish, couldn't figure it out.  Thief, murderer and liar - who was this beautiful woman with the bearing of a princess who totally confused him with her rapier sharp tongue. No matter how captivating, he would not surrender to her charms no matter how much his traitorous body wished otherwise.  With a past betrayal still fresh in his mind he fought his attraction to his prisoner who had turned the tables and captured HIS heart.<br /><br />*** This was a fun read employing some truly witty and delightful dialogs between the protagonists that will have the reader chuckling throughout.  Additionally the off-the-cuff impertinent comments coming from Cairn's long time sidekick Burr were a delightful bonus as well as Burr's  blossoming romance with the cheeky young thief Gem. &lt;As the romance with Gem and Burr didn't reach any conclusion I hope to see it resurrected in the next installment of this Princess trilogy.>  Greiman uses a full complement of wonderful secondary characters combined with humor and a sweetly seductive romance to make this book a charmer from the beginning to end that I highly recommend.<br /><br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ary characters combined with humor and a sweetly seductive romance to make this book a charmer from the beginning to end that I highly recommend.  <br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-03-09
322258:US	45284807	RXUBNVJGOEK3N	0060571454	682777404	The Princess Masquerade	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Endearing Characters and Great Fun	Megan O'Shay was known as many things - a beauty, a spunky barmaid, but mostly as the quick fingered and slippery notorious thief known as \\"Magical Megs.\\"  It would be a deed she surely would regret the day she tangled with a certain gentleman who took exception to the way she walloped him with a wine bottle and separated him from a family heirloom pocket watch.<br /><br />Though Nicole, Viscount Newburn might tell himself it was his pocket watch that he wanted, it was truly the thief Magical Megs; the woman who had an uncanny resemblance to his liege, Princess Tatianna of Sedonia.  It took six months to track her down, and Megs, who trusted no man - let alone a noble, was not about to make his job easy.  He had to convince her to help then educate her in royal etiquette, dining, etc. so that she could replace Tatiana while the Princess slipped away on a secret mission.  As a close advisor to the Princess, Cole was not known for his warmth, but as Megs transformed before his eyes into the refined and beautiful lady, Cole was not immune to the bewitching beauty, who had stolen his heart.<br /><br />*** In the second installment of the Princess Trilogy, we finally get to meet the true master thief `Magical Megs' who will easily steal your heart away.  Tough and resilient, she led Cole on a merry chase right up until she caught him! Cole was also a likeable hero strong and caring no matter how hard he tried to remain stoic and unfeeling.  The more he glimpsed the innate goodness radiating from the kind heart beneath the brittleness Megan tried hard to maintain, the more he came to unbend and love that essential goodness.  Greiman utilizes glowingly fresh and saucy dialog between her protagonists which will delight the reader adding humor to the struggles as both try to deny their attraction.  The solid supporting cast is expertly crafted and adds additional layering to this superb stand-alone story in the second book of Greiman's Princess trilogy. [...]	2005-03-09
324294:US	45284807	R1Z91F9TSA85T7	0786234008	732758337	Seducing Mr. Heywood: A Regency Romance (Five Star First Edition Romance Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Elegant Prose in a Most Enchanting Story	Setting - Rowley Hall, Yorkshire, 1811 --- The very notorious Lady Sophia Rowley, thrice married, thrice widowed and smarting from the loss of her latest lover she had intended on making husband number four, was not in the best of moods. On the advice of her solicitor she had come home to Rowley Hall to make the acquaintance of the vicar of St. Mortrud's, Mr. Charles Heywood, whom her late husband had appointed guardian of their two sons. To say the least, their first meeting could in no way be termed favorable, - but I'll let the reader delight in THAT inauspicious moment. In spite of her bad humor, and Charles' mortification it would be days before they would once more, accidentally meet and Sophia, thought to make the very handsome vicar her next lover while she rusticated in the country.<br /><br />Charles had always admired the beautiful woman from her portrait during his many visits and had it not been for the confidences shared with him by the late baron of how Sophia had been sold into a brutal and hideous first marriage by her despicable father, he might have the same unfavorable opinions of her that others had. Armed with that knowledge, and as their friendship developed he began to admire the intelligent and tenderhearted woman that was kept hidden behind the jaded and brittle mask she donned to hide her vulnerability. There seemed to be a real chance at happiness for both of them if only they could survive the vicious manipulations that the re-emergence of her obnoxious father would bring back into her life.<br /><br />*** I found this to be a divine read. I absolutely loved how Sophia the once-jaded and totally selfish heroine (from THE RELUCTANT GUARDIAN) finally came to her epiphany realizing her self worth as a caring, loving mother and found her true love in such an unlikely candidate. It was also a very original read in that the female/male roles were reversed where she was the rake, so to speak, and he the innocent. In addition, I found the many varied characters were so very well defined that the reader could feel a part of the entire ensemble.<br /><br />Of particular note, is the way the author conveyed warm and loving feelings for the character of the deceased Baron Rowley. Due to his unselfish regard in maintaining for his sons the illusion of a mother's love, he thoughtfully paved the way for her re-emergence into their life. I thought that this very cleverly done to have such a warm and wonderful feeling for a character whom you never really meet in the story but who plays such a seemingly big part due to the fond remembrances and good deeds he'd done during his life. Bottom line - With elegant prose, fresh and charming dialogs, and lovely regency touches the author had me totally enchanted from start to finish in this wonderfully feel-good romance.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ny varied characters were so very well defined that the reader could feel a part of the entire ensemble. <br /> <br />Of particular note, is the way the author conveyed warm and loving feelings for the character of the deceased Baron Rowley. Due to his unselfish regard in maintaining for his sons the illusion of a mother's love, he thoughtfully paved the way for her re-emergence into their life. I thought that this very cleverly done to have such a warm and wonderful feeling for a character whom you never really meet in the story but who plays such a seemingly big part due to the fond remembrances and good deeds he'd done during his life. Bottom line - With elegant prose, fresh and charming dialogs, and lovely regency touches the author had me totally enchanted from start to finish in this wonderfully feel-good romance.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-03-07
326625:US	45284807	R2ZEWAMGQDXY5Y	0451214587	828320662	My Lady Faire (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A 3-1/2*  Read	The beautiful twenty-seven year old widow Claudia, Lady Fairfax shares co-guardianship of her precocious seven-year old stepson Edward, with her neighbor, Noel Clifford, Lord Hawke.  He is handsome, charming, a bachelor, reputed to have his pick of the ton debs and also, infuriating, intimidating and overbearing.  Unfortunately, Edward quite adores him so his presence at Fairfax House is frequent and welcome - at least by Edward.  Claudia would rather not have to suffer his nearness so often as the feelings he provokes are anything but calming and she would prefer not to have deal with them or him.<br /><br />Lord Hawke, has been attracted to Claudia since the day he first met her - the day of her marriage to his neighbor Basil, Lord Fairfax.  He has been patiently waiting for her year of mourning to be over in order to announce his intentions, but each time he seems to think he's gained ground in his campaign to win her regard, Claudia seems to think he's trying to undermine her authority with Edward.  While the village vicar plots his campaign to win the well to do widow, Hawke accelerates his plans to make Claudia his with the help of some friends.<br /><br />***  This was a first time read by this author and while the story is well written, the plot is rather predictable as far as books in the traditional regency genre go but rather slow.  I did enjoy the characterization of the step-son Edward who was very well fleshed out with intelligence and winning ways making him out to be extremely likeable.  The main protagonists, Claudia, and Lord Hawke were also likeable and warm.  Certain activities, especially the house party picnic along with the guests were a special delight, especially Lady Adela and her expert handling of the snobbish vicar.  This was a charming and enjoyable read that depicts a lovely example of country life entertainments along with a light romance.  ---  Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-03-05
331703:US	45284807	R2I7P7OM1DDUC1	0312992823	382511487	Deeper than Desire	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Hot and Spicy Historical - Whew!	Setting - England, 1813 --- Lady Olivia Hopkins and her extended family are visiting at the home of the widowed Edward Paxton, Earl of Salisbury. The visit has been planned and orchestrated by her step-mother Margaret with the planned intention that Lord Salisbury propose and marry Olivia thereby, saving the impoverished but blue-blood family from ruin. Disturbed over being forced to marry a man she is not in love with and not able to sleep, Olivia peruses the library and comes upon a book of pure erotica. She is both fascinated, shocked and aroused by what she is seeing and settles in to study the pictures - purely from an artistic point of view - having never before seen a male nude body. She is observed at this and caught in the act by a disturbingly handsome man who she later discovers is the earl's illegitimate son, Phillip. Olivia is instantly attracted to his dangerously dark looks but soon realizes that he does not have the means to save her financially strapped family from ruin. Although, in matters of the heart, worldly concerns never do seem to matter and Phillip and Olivia continue their clandestine affair as Phillip indoctrinates her in some very erotic foreplay.<br /><br />In the meantime, Olivia's cousin Winnie, whose meek and subservient demeanor hides a very passionate woman who has been trying to live down her mistakes of the past, is also being tempted by the undeniable attraction experienced between herself and the Earl. This attraction, was doomed from the very start based upon her lack of blue blood and common status, but again - that did not prevent matters of the heart and lust to catapult them both into a very passionate and surreptitious affair.<br /><br />Lastly, there is another family member of this group, Margaret's daughter Penolope. A sly, feisty, and very promiscuous 16 year old in whom her mother Margaret has great marital plans, but whose personal taste tends to run to stable lads. Penolope, playing with fire once too often, attracts the attention of a very dishonorable and dangerous man who seduces and plans to use Penelope for his own gains.<br /><br />Now if the above doesn't whet your appetite than you are looking at the wrong book. Cheryl Holt gives us a fully robust and tantalizing tale that will both amuse and excite the senses in a most pleasurable way. Olivia's obnoxious step-mother, was so nasty I wanted to jump in myself and choke her, that is after I gave her spawn Penelope a swift kick in the butt! But of course, this is what made this a total read for me - two really nice love stories, characters depicted in such a way that they engage all of the readers emotions, AND, on top of all this, she delivers a wonderful serving of deeply hot and sensual foreplay in a way one can depend on when reading her novels. Bottom line - Cheryl Holt remains on the top of my list for hot, and spicy historical romance reads! --- Marilyn, for [...]attracts the attention of a very dishonorable and dangerous man who seduces and plans to use Penelope for his own gains.  <br /> <br />Now if the above doesn't whet your appetite than you are looking at the wrong book. Cheryl Holt gives us a fully robust and tantalizing tale that will both amuse and excite the senses in a most pleasurable way. Olivia's obnoxious step-mother, was so nasty I wanted to jump in myself and choke her, that is after I gave her spawn Penelope a swift kick in the butt! But of course, this is what made this a total read for me - two really nice love stories, characters depicted in such a way that they engage all of the readers emotions, AND, on top of all this, she delivers a wonderful serving of deeply hot and sensual foreplay in a way one can depend on when reading her novels. Bottom line - Cheryl Holt remains on the top of my list for hot, and spicy historical romance reads! --- Marilyn, for [...] <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-01
332739:US	45284807	RT944E8NU9CS0	0060751878	765951787	A Kiss in the Dark	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Outstanding New Author !!! Splendidly Original Story	Tristan Knight, the Earl of Ellington had heard rumors regarding the notorious widow the Viscountess Rotherby, so when his butler suggested he seek her help in locating his runaway sister he hesitated, but nearly at the end of his rope with no where else to turn, he finally did seek her out. Assuming the worst sort of jaded woman he was quite amazed when his preconceived notions, based on gossip and innuendo, found him facing a beautiful and regally composed young woman instead of the shrewish golddigger he'd conjured up in his mind. Tristan was even more surprised that even in his stressed and desperate circumstances, her very presence aroused in him an intense physical awareness that no woman ever had before.<br /><br />Deirdre Wilks, the Viscountess Rotherby, was not born to the privileged life she now led, quite the contrary. Her first meeting with the Earl of Ellington, was for her, a life defining moment. It had been 13 long years but she could never forget the handsome young man with the violet eyes holding his dying mother in his arms, and long buried memories came rushing back as she waited to be unmasked. Fearing the recognition which would surely lead to his contempt, she wanted only to be rid of him and refused him her assistance. After a sleepless night, realizing that she was a child when he'd last seen her on that fateful day - she was compelled to help -- she owed him! Deirdre then became his guide through the shadowy alleyways of Tothill Fields, a very dangerous area of the city. Using her contacts they would try to discover information in finding his sister. Forming an uneasy truce, the undeniable chemistry between them grew and although totally intrigued by the woman, Tristan was more than curious over her familiarity with the seedy side of London. As their passion grew, a very old and dangerous enemy from Deidre's past resurfaced in her life that could destroy her newly forged love affair as her past came back to haunt her.<br /><br />*** This was an awfully good and original read! It was written with an amazing level of intensity and feeling that my heart was pumping furiously with both the palatable passion and the keen sense of danger infused in the story. Deirdre was a beautifully crafted heroine who the reader will immediately want to stand up and cheer for as well as her hero Tristan. The skillfully created secondary characters - members of the Rag Tag gang (Benji will just steal your heart) - also added a wonderful depth of caring and amusement and as Deirdre took them into her heart, the readers, I'm sure, will follow suit. This was not a typical light regency read and is most certainly worthy of the RWA's 2004 Golden Heart award! --- I heartily recommend to all lovers of historical romances to discover this new talent in this genre.his was an awfully good and original read! It was written with an amazing level of intensity and feeling that my heart was pumping furiously with both the palatable passion and the keen sense of danger infused in the story. Deirdre was a beautifully crafted heroine who the reader will immediately want to stand up and cheer for as well as her hero Tristan. The skillfully created secondary characters - members of the Rag Tag gang (Benji will just steal your heart) - also added a wonderful depth of caring and amusement and as Deirdre took them into her heart, the readers, I'm sure, will follow suit. This was not a typical light regency read and is most certainly worthy of the RWA's 2004 Golden Heart award! --- I heartily recommend to all lovers of historical romances to discover this new talent in this genre. <br />	2005-02-28
333116:US	45284807	RCD4DLP226RTF	0373293437	752542089	The Bachelor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sweet Addition to a Terrific Series	Setting - Calgary, Alberta 1893 --- Diana Campbell and her two new friends, Charlotte and Winnie, peered through the boisterous crowd at the Harvest Festival and gazed in amazement at the handsome men (bachelor Mounties) that were being raffled off for charity and her two friends joked as to just what they'd be using the good-looking men for. Diana observed the eligible and wealthy young woman surrounding the booth as they plunked down  five cents for a chance to throw the ball and dunk the most handsomest Mountie, Mitchell Reid into the vat of water in order to win him for the next 24 hours. Her introduction to the brash young mountie had occurred the night before when he came to her door hauling her two brothers home, reprimanding both her and them that they were headed for a life of crime if she didn't have them mend their ways.<br /><br />Oh, how she'd like to send that smug SOB to the bottom of the barrel, but barely making ends meet,five cents for a chance was much too much to waste. It wasn't until after, those well-to-do young misses looked down their noses at her oversized clunky shoes and making unkind remarks, that goaded Diana and her two friends into digging into the pockets for the fee in order to come up with a chance to dunk the handsome and smug Mountie. Fortunately, Diana's arms had grown strong from her work at the chicken factory where she and her friends worked, so with one throw, Mitch was dunked and won! Unfortunately, Diana only wanted to wipe the smug smirk off his face but now she had him for the next 24 hours. Mitch smugly thinking she'd wanted an escort to the dance that night, was quite surprised when she had him accompany her to the chicken factory instead where she taught him to pluck the feathers off the chickens. She certainly was an unusual young woman and he was bound and determined to get to know her better. All things considered, after the 24 hours he thought things were beginning to work out fairly well... that was until he later had to arrest her two young brothers as chief suspects in a series of bank robberies.<br /><br />*** With THE BACHELOR, Kate Bridges continues to provide original and entertaining stories of the Canadian Mounted police in the late 19th century of Alberta, Canada. She continually comes up with original characters and plots pitting everyday people in their daily struggles to survive while weaving in events of historic significance such as the early days of trial and error in convincing the powers to be of using fingerprints as a useful tool to aid in solving crimes. The romance was sweet, and the sensuality served up very tastefully in a very nice addition to this highly enjoyable series.<br /><br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ater had to arrest her two young brothers as chief suspects in a series of bank robberies.  <br /> <br />*** With THE BACHELOR, Kate Bridges continues to provide original and entertaining stories of the Canadian Mounted police in the late 19th century of Alberta, Canada. She continually comes up with original characters and plots pitting everyday people in their daily struggles to survive while weaving in events of historic significance such as the early days of trial and error in convincing the powers to be of using fingerprints as a useful tool to aid in solving crimes. The romance was sweet, and the sensuality served up very tastefully in a very nice addition to this highly enjoyable series. <br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-28
333212:US	45284807	R52QYKP09D3CG	0425201503	155338924	Mr. Impossible	Books	5	26	34	N	N	Mr. Imposssible turns into Mr. PERFECT!	Setting - Egypt 1821 --- Having arrived only six weeks earlier in Egypt, Rupert Carsington, the fourth son of the Earl of Hargate, was his family's favorite son but a disaster because wherever trouble and chaos reigned, Rupert was sure to be in the middle of it. New to Egypt, he hadn't really had enough time to size up the society's structure as of yet, and being a gentleman, in spite of his hellion ways, he was not about to watch a soldier beating to death a man unable to defend himself without coming to his aid. So, English aristocracy or not, Rupert was promptly tossed into the deepest dungeon in Cairo.<br /><br />At approximately the same time, news of Mrs. Daphne Pemperton's brother Miles kidnapping had reached her ears, and she soon discovered that the English consulate had no one available to lend her aid, other than the troublesome young Carsington sitting in jail. Daphne was not be deterred and if this was the only help she was going to get, she would storm the depths of the dungeon and bring the brainless but brawny and brave fool out to help her cross the desert in the hopes of rescuing her brother. To her way of thinking, they could form a partnership, she would provide the brains, and the big handsome (she couldn't help but notice) brute Rupert, would provide the brawn! What Daphne didn't expect was that the desert heat would be nothing compared to the heat Rupert instilled in her nether regions.<br /><br />*** Having recently finished the first novel in the Carsington family saga MISS WONDERFUL, I looked forward to hearing more of the rest of the troublesome sons of the Earl of Hargate and found this to this to be a worthy entry. While I did find the previous novel to contain a bit more humor, this certainly had its moments. Rupert, fashioned with a wry sense of humor, was a perfect complement for Daphne's reticence and scholarly personality as he was able to break through the walls she'd erected around herself. Daphne was a more complex personality having suffered mental abuse by her husband, an older and condescending man, who jealous of her intelligence, belittled her in such a condescending way - really doing a number on her self-esteem in making her think that her passionate nature was something to be ashamed of, rather than to delight in. Rupert who never really took things seriously was a perfect fit - balancing out her practical nature.  He was truly enthralled with and amazed by her `huge brain' and totally delighted in her passion. Mr. Impossible proved to be for Daphne, Mr. Perfect in another SPLENDID READ by Ms. Chase!!<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---ity having suffered mental abuse by her husband, an older and condescending man, who jealous of her intelligence, belittled her in such a condescending way - really doing a number on her self-esteem in making her think that her passionate nature was something to be ashamed of, rather than to delight in. Rupert who never really took things seriously was a perfect fit - balancing out her practical nature.  He was truly enthralled with and amazed by her `huge brain' and totally delighted in her passion. Mr. Impossible proved to be for Daphne, Mr. Perfect in another SPLENDID READ by Ms. Chase!!  <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-02-28
333278:US	45284807	RJFH4TG87U3E1	0843954876	897226836	Ride The Fire (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Simply OUTSTANDING	Setting - Ohio wilderness, 1757 --- Nicholas Kenleigh had served in the army, been captured and tortured by the Indians, and then escaped. The things he'd done and been forced to do, the killing or be killed - the will to survive, had changed him. He'd gone home but, dead inside, he felt for the sake of his family he'd be better off alone. Six years roaming the wilderness he was attacked once more, killing his attacker but left with a mortal wound that would surely have killed him had he not happened upon the farm of the widow Elspeth Stewart.<br /><br />Elspeth, better known as Bethie, was widowed, pregnant, and trusted no man, given her history of abuse at the hands of her step-father and step-brother. She'd been married off to a man old enough to be her father who though treated her kindly, did so without any great affection. When Nicholas appeared -- looking as much like a savage as any others she'd seen, she didn't trust him at all, particularly when he stuck a pistol to her temple, forcing her to help him. Nicholas, weak from loss of blood, and after having his wound cauterized found himself at her mercy once Bethie was able to slip him a drug to knock him out. As he convalesced, Elspeth came to accept his presence, and thankfully he was there to help with the complicated delivery of her baby or both she and the child would have died. Unfortunately, their peaceful co-existence would be shattered when an old enemy came to call and they would have to rely on each other as they raced just ahead of marauding Indians in search of safety. Somewhere along the journey, Elspeth had slipped into Nicholas' heart bringing him back to the land of the living, and Nicholas knew he would do whatever it took to give her all the love in his heart as he began the slow process of healing both her heart and soul.<br /><br />**** WOW! Captured by savages, whose method of torturing their enemies was probably more detailed than I needed to know, the author pulls you into an amazing, sensually romantic adventure that will keep you on the edge of your seat and turning the pages into the wee hours of the morning! As the second novel I've read by this author, I have to say she positively rocks! The historical events are well researched and the characters are brought to life with a perfectly sumptuous sensuality that will raise your temperature and send you in search of your partner for some loving of your own. Nicholas' body and soul had been brutally bruised yet he was able to help Bethie back from her trauma to begin the healing in her, thereby healing himself - awesome! Whew, this was one deliciously steamy and exhilarating read that I highly recommend!<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---an amazing, sensually romantic adventure that will keep you on the edge of your seat and turning the pages into the wee hours of the morning! As the second novel I've read by this author, I have to say she positively rocks! The historical events are well researched and the characters are brought to life with a perfectly sumptuous sensuality that will raise your temperature and send you in search of your partner for some loving of your own. Nicholas' body and soul had been brutally bruised yet he was able to help Bethie back from her trauma to begin the healing in her, thereby healing himself - awesome! Whew, this was one deliciously steamy and exhilarating read that I highly recommend!  <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-02-28
338287:US	45284807	RK23MN4T55SHG	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Witty, Wonderful and Sooooo Good!	I am a great fan of Christina Dodd, mainly because she writes books in the historical regency type genre that I adore, BUT - because she writes with such feeling, freshness, and pure genius I decided to give her first contemporary a try. WOW - I am so glad I did!<br /><br />JUST THE WAY YOU ARE has a sweetheart of a heroine who is caring, honest, earthy and so very `real'. She is Hope Prescott, orphaned daughter of a Texas minister and his wife who was then cruelly ripped away from her siblings - two sisters and a foster brother. It is part of that mystery of what happened way back then that shaped Hope into the person she is today. Hope works for an answering-service company operated by the kind Madam Nainci as she works feverishly to complete her computer-science degree. Growing up poor, has shaped Hope into the compassionate champion of underdogs and also drives her to earn the money to finance a search for her lost siblings.<br /><br />She meets Boston's wealthy corporate raider business whiz Zach Given when his company employs Madam Nainci's Answering service. Hope mistakes him as his butler Griswald and after she thoroughly commiserates with the man she thinks is a butler over having to work for such an `old fart' of an employer, Zach doesn't correct her assumption as he is intrigued with the `voice'. Zach begins to enjoy the telephone friendship, as does Hope, and when he came down with a cold - Hope brought the poor `old dear' some chicken soup - surprised that the `poor old dear' turns out to be drop dead gorgeous. Zach posing as Griswald - is also taken back as he discovers that the middle aged matron he assumed Hope to be was a young, intelligent and very attractive female he decided then and there to seduce thinking how surprised she'd be when he told her who he really was.<br /><br />True to her talents, Ms. Dodd's tale of misinterpreted identities is rife with humor and feelings as she introduces a delightful supporting cast of characters from the very real butler, Griswald, to Zach's witty and wonderful Aunt Cecily, eccentric and kind Madam Nainci and all the diverse and zany characters that subscribe to the answering service. The romance is quick and the passion extremely sensual. This is a wonderful romance in spite of being contemporary when it is done by an author whose deft hand at dialog and passion is unsurpassed. Bravo Ms. Dodd - you continue to amaze me with your gifts to engage and entertain your readers!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---the very real butler, Griswald, to Zach's witty and wonderful Aunt Cecily, eccentric and kind Madam Nainci and all the diverse and zany characters that subscribe to the answering service. The romance is quick and the passion extremely sensual. This is a wonderful romance in spite of being contemporary when it is done by an author whose deft hand at dialog and passion is unsurpassed. Bravo Ms. Dodd - you continue to amaze me with your gifts to engage and entertain your readers!  --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-02-24
339591:US	45284807	R3JMI7Y5LZAURH	0451214323	11534027	The Lady and the Cit (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Very Little Romance	Miss Aurelia Trevor of Pevensey Park, Kent was up in arms over the fact that her steward was totally ignoring her directives in maintaining the estate that was left to her by her father.  Unfortunately, the two executors that had been named in her father's will had both passed on leaving her Uncle Huburt as her guardian until she attained the age of five and twenty, or until she married.  Aurelia, at twenty-one, even though the estate was hers, could not control it until she attained the age of twenty-five, or married.<br /><br />With the threat of being forced to marry or be compromised by her odious cousin, the Terrible Twyford, Aurelia and her former governess and companion devised a scheme to find a suitable husband - one that could be persuaded to marry yet leave the running of Pevensey to her.  With the war going on and most eligible sons away fighting Bonaparte, the pickings were slim, therefore she enlisted the help of a solicitor in London to find a man, who would marry her under her conditions.  Aurelia couldn't believe that she would ever consider a Cit, (a man who worked for a living or was in trade) rather than a gentleman from the nobility, but from the moment she saw the very handsome `cit' she was most definitely attracted.<br /><br />Thomas Lanning, had no need of an heiress having amassed a fortune of his own, but the bonus of a political power base that offered itself along with Pevensey park, was something he truly couldn't turn down.  Aside from that, Miss Aurelia Trevor, the arrogant little minx, was certainly attractive enough.  Coming from different worlds, these two individuals - just might make a match made in heaven but it would be doubtful when Thomas put her in her place for  `hiring' a cit for a husband with the comment  \\"... you may annoy me at times, but you don't disgust me...\\" !!!<br /><br />***  Blair Bancroft certainly writes with an admirable knowledge of the regency era with an ability to transport her readers with the sights, sounds, language and mannerisms of that period. Although the modern woman could feel sorry for the heroine's plight, it would be extremely hard to feel any warmth towards Aurelia's arrogance and her obvious distaste towards a `cit', especially when one considers that SHE was the one that had sought him out. She obviously felt attracted to Thomas, yet having been brought up in the ranks of the nobility, and as an only child, it was difficult for her to show any kind of emotion or warmth - attraction or not!  It was only from observing the interactions of Thomas and his younger siblings that she loosened up at all.  While I found this to be an extremely well researched and interesting read, those looking for romance will have to wait it out until the very last couple of pages.  ---  Marilyn, for [...] ---he sights, sounds, language and mannerisms of that period. Although the modern woman could feel sorry for the heroine's plight, it would be extremely hard to feel any warmth towards Aurelia's arrogance and her obvious distaste towards a `cit', especially when one considers that SHE was the one that had sought him out. She obviously felt attracted to Thomas, yet having been brought up in the ranks of the nobility, and as an only child, it was difficult for her to show any kind of emotion or warmth - attraction or not!   It was only from observing the interactions of Thomas and his younger siblings that she loosened up at all.  While I found this to be an extremely well researched and interesting read, those looking for romance will have to wait it out until the very last couple of pages.    ---  Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-02-23
347375:US	45284807	R3U4LRPWIOUKXV	0446614378	986071609	The Improper Wife (Warner Forever)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	AWESOME !  Emotionally Sensitive and Stunningly Romantic	Setting - London, 1816 --- Very pregnant, alone, and nearly penniless Maggie Delaney  was at the end of her rope when she discovered that she had not killed the husband she'd accidentally pushed into the river.  From a newspaper she learned that  her husband Captain John Grayson was alive and living in London.  Maggie discovered his direction, marched up to the door and asked the handsome but scruffy looking man who answered the door if these were the rooms of Captain John Grayson, who answered in the affirmative. Then she asked when he would be returning.  John Grayson insisted he was the man in question and that these were HIS rooms.  Maggie, quickly realizing how she'd been duped was overcome with both shock and contractions and before you knew it, John was assisting her in the delivery of her child in that very room!<br /><br />When Maggie realized she'd no idea who the man was she'd given herself to in marriage and impregnated her, one would imagine her breaking down - but only a mother would recognize the strength of purpose and love that was born the moment she embraced the miracle that was her son.  John was in awe of that bond and the pure essence of the love she showered onto her babe.  While John didn't want to be involved and anxious to get back to his regiment, he was not immune to her needs and arranged for his cousins to come and take her to their home.  Leaving funds with his cousin for her care and feeling he had done more than was his duty, John happily left only to return two years later to discover that his `helpful' cousins had installed his `wife' in his boyhood home of Summerton. In those two years, Maggie had ingratiated herself in the good graces of his family.  Gray's first instinct was to get rid of the baggage but the more time spent with her, the more he was convinced that this very `improper' wife of his should be a real wife in truth!<br /><br />*** Diane Perkins has created a beautifully written, emotionally sensitive and totally awesome romantic read devising a most original and cleverly plotted second chance at love.  Maggie was a very strong heroine and while some would reason that she was manipulative, others can totally empathize that she was motivated solely with, and for the sake of love for Sean, her young son.  While John suspected her motives as calculating and manipulative he soon realized that she had brought joy and love back to a home that had been sorely lacking for years.  The story gently evolves into a sensual dance that the readers will find themselves fully basking in its rhythm and grace.  The addition of an endearing cast of secondary characters, particularly the child Sean and his cousin Rodney, only make this dance more memorable with gentle humor and a gracious warmth.<br /><br />---- Marilyn, for [...] ---ic read devising a most original and cleverly plotted second chance at love.  Maggie was a very strong heroine and while some would reason that she was manipulative, others can totally empathize that she was motivated solely with, and for the sake of love for Sean, her young son.  While John suspected her motives as calculating and manipulative he soon realized that she had brought joy and love back to a home that had been sorely lacking for years.  The story gently evolves into a sensual dance that the readers will find themselves fully basking in its rhythm and grace.  The addition of an endearing cast of secondary characters, particularly the child Sean and his cousin Rodney, only make this dance more memorable with gentle humor and a gracious warmth.     ---- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-02-16
354206:US	45284807	RB9H6VCBS5PH6	0345459946	579928960	Heart of the Hunter	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Edge of the Seat Fantasy/Historical	In the HEART OF THE HUNTER, the author has created a fantasy historical in which a separate world (Anavrin) existing next to ours separated only by a thin veil.  In that mythical world of peace and prosperity, ruled by benevolent immortals and shape shifters, there was once a Dragon Chalice said to hold immense power. A young maiden foolishly allowed a mortal man into her world who upon seeing the magnificent chalice thought to steal it.  When he held it to the outside world it burst apart into four separate cups each with a magical stone and now, several hundred years later, mystical beings from Anavrin and mortal men thinking to harness the power and riches of the chalice all race to find it.<br /><br />In 1275, Lady Ariana of Clairmont received a ransom note for her brother Kenrick's life. She was ordered to travel to Rouen, France bringing a satchel containing journals and notes that Kenrick, as a Knight Templar, had detailed.  In arranging passage, her escort was savagely killed when a scarred warrior came to her rescue.  It didn't take long before Ariana came to realize she was in something way over her head.<br /><br />Huge, imposing, Braeden de Chausseur, aka `the Hunter' once had been a mercenary for hire, and/or as a hunter of lost things and people.  He'd left that life behind and wanted nothing to do with Ariana, or become involved with her mission but one look at her beautiful innocent face and he'd felt compelled to help.  Unfortunately, before he knew it he was knee deep in a mysterious and deadly mission, on a quest similar to the one that had caused him to lose five of his most trusted friends and almost his life. The kidnapper was Silas de Mortaine the same man who had hired then did his utmost to kill him - leaving him scarred instead.  As dangerous men, magical beings, and evil shape shifters dogged their every step, the journey unleashed an unforgettable and potent passion between the warrior and his innocent charge.  Secrets Braedon had thought were locked in his soul forever were finally released by the tender and unmistakable touch of Ariana's love.<br /><br />*** My God, this was an absolutely thrilling beginning to what looks to be a fabulous new trilogy by an author who has already won a legion of fans with her outstanding highly sensual medieval romances. By mixing the historical with aspects of the fantasy realm, and enough twists and turns to keep you guessing, she adds a most delicious side to what is a very bold and exciting new series.  Braeden may be scarred, but he is soooo very h-o-t!  The lady is innocent and beautiful, and the villains are just so evil!  Oooh, this highly original new series is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and looking forward to more!<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---thought were locked in his soul forever were finally released by the tender and unmistakable touch of Ariana's love. <br /> <br />*** My God, this was an absolutely thrilling beginning to what looks to be a fabulous new trilogy by an author who has already won a legion of fans with her outstanding highly sensual medieval romances. By mixing the historical with aspects of the fantasy realm, and enough twists and turns to keep you guessing, she adds a most delicious side to what is a very bold and exciting new series.  Braeden may be scarred, but he is soooo very h-o-t!  The lady is innocent and beautiful, and the villains are just so evil!  Oooh, this highly original new series is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and looking forward to more! <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-02-10
362448:US	45284807	R9WGZSSQCHQGH	0743477707	314943593	In the Prince's Bed (The Royal Brotherhood)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Original New Sensual Laden Series	Setting - London 1813 ---  Jeffries newest series \\"The Royal Brotherhood\\" stars Alexander Black, Earl of Iversley. With nothing to lose and much to gain, he introduces himself to two of his half-brothers, both being the reputed offspring of the profligate Prince of Wales.  Both knew of the others existence but had never met. As the `acknowledged' heir of the late Earl of Iversley, Alexander surprised both of them claiming unbeknownst to all he too shared the same sire. While his two half brothers were acknowledged as Prinny's get, they were also well-to-do which unfortunately was not the case of Alexander.  He'd inherited a title,  a run down estate, Edenmore, and a mountain of debt. Alex proposed that they form an alliance, become a `family' so to speak in helping each other to get what they truly most desired.  Consequently they agreed to help him find an heiress with funds that would enable him to restore Edenmore back to it's former glory as a self-sufficient income producing estate that would help support its many tenants and servants.<br /><br />From the moment Katherine Merivale was pointed out to Alec, he decided that she was the one. Her looks alone seemed to flaunt convention and he was definitely intrigued even though, Katherine seemed desperate to bring Sydney Lovelace, her long time childhood best friend up to scratch.  Unfortunately, her efforts in this regard fell on deaf ears as Sydney ignored her most valiant efforts by using a myriad of excuses in putting off his declaration.  After, eavesdropping on a private conversation Katherine had with Sydney, Alec was further convinced that she would be far better off with him than the dull poetry-spewing fop she was pursing. Convincing Katherine to trust him would be paramount before she accepted him after she experienced first-hand her parents tempestuous marriage and her father's often public affairs. She was determined to choose a reliable and steady mate no matter how much she enjoyed and was attracted to Alec. Convincing Katherine that spending time with him, would spur Sydney to make a move,  Alec pulled out all the stops in a campaign of seduction to make her his wife but he soon found himself to be the one that was seduced.<br /><br />***  Once again Sabrina Jeffries has presented another dazzling and intriguing story.  Katherine was an unusual heroine forced to live in genteel poverty knowing all the while she had a sizable inheritance. Even though Alec was rather dishonest in trying to railroad Katherine to the altar, you can't help but like him because he really cared for her.  The originality of using the illegitimate offspring of Prinny as a springboard was an intriguing vehicle although I would have liked to have seen a more interplay with the two half-brothers.  The sensuality-laden lovemaking was stirring, but I found the poetry reading episode between Katherine and Alex to be an episode that the reader DEFINITELY should not miss - it being both titillating and humorous at the same time.  One can always depend on this author for emotional and intelligent romances and this has definitely whetted my interest for the next installment. ---Marilyn, for [...] ---Convincing Katherine that spending time with him, would spur Sydney to make a move,  Alec pulled out all the stops in a campaign of seduction to make her his wife but he soon found himself to be the one that was seduced.    ***  Once again Sabrina Jeffries has presented another dazzling and intriguing story.  Katherine was an unusual heroine forced to live in genteel poverty knowing all the while she had a sizable inheritance. Even though Alec was rather dishonest in trying to railroad Katherine to the altar, you can't help but like him because he really cared for her.   The originality of using the illegitimate offspring of Prinny as a springboard was an intriguing vehicle although I would have liked to have seen a more interplay with the two half-brothers.  The sensuality-laden lovemaking was stirring, but I found the poetry reading episode between Katherine and Alex to be an episode that the reader DEFINITELY should not miss - it being both titillating and humorous at the same time.  One can always depend on this author for emotional and intelligent romances and this has definitely whetted my interest for the next installment. ---Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-02-03
367324:US	45284807	R45LYP3ODQEGM	0446614653	393561429	At Her Service (Warner Forever)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Highly Entertaining Medieval	Setting -  England, 1350 --- Seven months into widowhood, Lady Joanna Lynwood knew men could be cruel and now the beast she'd been married to was dead, she had no desire to ever have another one in her life.  Yet, when outlaws began terrorizing her people and upsetting her plans for a peaceful life, she knew she had to do something.  Having lost two children to the plague, and now seeing her lone daughter Ivy narrowly escape a more serious injury, she would take necessary steps to see those outlaws caught and punished.  So be it, if it was a man she needed, she would hire the best and sent the captain of her guards for a mercenary whose name alone would strike terror in the hearts of those that would dare take away her peace.<br /><br />Logan Grimm, was located recovering from a leg wound awaiting the next offer to hire out his sword.  The job sounded too good to be true, a simple task, until he learned he would be working for another widow and he turned it down flat. Sweetening the pot, Joanna's agent offered a week's wages to at least travel and meet the widow first before his final decision.<br /><br />Meeting Joanna, and her daughter Ivy, he was more than convinced in still planning to leave the following morning as Joanna was far too beautiful and he'd had his fill of conniving beautiful widows.  But, after a quiet nighttime talk, Logan took her measure realizing deep down that he could trust her word and decided to stay and help.<br /><br />Vowing to keep things strictly business, Joanna fought her attraction to the darkly handsome warrior but the attraction was mutual and she recognized that the ferocious and fearsome mercenary had gentleness in his heart and manner that was quickly melting hers.  Terrified by her feelings, Joanna had to decide if she should take a chance to know love or would this be just another job and another conquest that he'd  leave when the job was over.<br /><br />***  Ms. Anton has spun another spell binding medieval tale that is sure to please her most ardent medieval loving fans.  Without going into a tremendous amount of detail one can sense the dread Joanna had of ever allowing another man to rule over her.  Having buried two children, and a beast of a husband, the terror of losing her one remaining daughter to marauding outlaws gave her the courage to send for a mercenary - the title alone envisioning the brutal men who would kill for hire.  Yet, over the objections of her advisors, she stuck to her guns.  Logan was beautifully created as the loner, a man who never expected much, never dreamed of a family or of belonging, yet Joanna and sweet Ivy both showed him a kindness and acceptance he'd never thought to have.  The story and characters all blended together beautifully in a highly entertaining and memorable medieval tale that I can highly recommend. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---e that is sure to please her most ardent medieval loving fans.   Without going into a tremendous amount of detail one can sense the dread Joanna had of ever allowing another man to rule over her.  Having buried two children, and a beast of a husband, the terror of losing her one remaining daughter to marauding outlaws gave her the courage to send for a mercenary - the title alone envisioning the brutal men who would kill for hire.  Yet, over the objections of her advisors, she stuck to her guns.   Logan was beautifully created as the loner, a man who never expected much, never dreamed of a family or of belonging, yet Joanna and sweet Ivy both showed him a kindness and acceptance he'd never thought to have.  The story and characters all blended together beautifully in a highly entertaining and memorable medieval tale that I can highly recommend. --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2005-01-31
367651:US	45284807	R2WXCKZUZLDHUO	0446614246	192833655	Lady in Waiting (Warner Forever)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	No Endearing Heroine Here	Setting - Bath, England 1817 --- Working as a lady's maid for the Featherton sisters, Jenny Penny, the illegitimate daughter of an English baron had no idea that a `face cream' she'd concocted for her ladies would be used and gaining untold popularity as a `tingle' cream used in the lower extremities.  This same cream was very much sought by the highborn ladies and gentlemen of the ton.  Never did she ever realize that while modeling a gown for her employers she'd be mistaken for, and caught up into a scheme of impersonating a highborn lady.  Jenny's life had certainly taking an odd turn, though after attracting the attention and admiration of the Scottish Viscount, Lord Callum Argyll, she was more than willing to continue the masquerade.<br /><br />Naturally, playing the part of a lady required dressing like one and luckily the sale of her homemade facial cream, now the infamous \\"tingle\\" cream, was the means to an end in affording her passion of paying for her shopping sprees in Bath's most exclusive shops.  With the ladies Featherton encouraging her romance with Lord Argyll, it seemed like a dream come true but, it would be only a matter of time before someone slipped and the truth be known - that Jenny Penny was only a  `lady in waiting'!<br /><br />*** While there were some humorous moments... I have to say, I did not like the characterization of the heroine at all.  Told in her voice, the reader is exposed to only Jenny's views and motivations, which to me were so very shallow. She was admittedly a shop-aholic, who spent far more than she could ever have earned as a maid, had she not chanced upon her face cream a.k.a. an erotic enhancer.  If  her employers had been aware of her overdue accounts, she'd have probably been sacked!  As a heroine she just was too materialistic, and it was just so hard to warm up to her at all.  Additionally, I found very little depth to Callum as well and he came across as rather flat and lifeless, although in the end he finally did redeem himself.<br /><br />The author does get points for research though and coming up with good historic detail. Unfortunately, the twin Featherton sisters, who were such a total hoot in RULES OF ENGAGEMENT, just didn't draw the laughs I expected and I felt just a tad cheated because of that.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---e finally did redeem himself.   <br /> <br />The author does get points for research though and coming up with good historic detail. Unfortunately, the twin Featherton sisters, who were such a total hoot in RULES OF ENGAGEMENT, just didn't draw the laughs I expected and I felt just a tad cheated because of that.   --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-01-30
368892:US	45284807	R1OLLOHDFJSCCE	0451213890	408783716	The Duel (Signet Eclipse)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Heartwarming , Romantic AND Original	Things could not get worse, or so Ian, Earl of Marden thought when trying to do the honorable thing after his opponent, fired his gun before he should have during their duel of honor that morning.  How could he have known that when he shot his pistol off to the side, sparing his opponents life, the ball would ricochet and hit an innocent bystander. Not only an innocent, but a young and sickly lad no less, whose main concern when he regained consciousness was that someone care for his sister.  Feeling totally guilty, Ian, rushed the young lad to his own home, then promised the young lad that he would bring his sister there to him, never realizing that the `little' sister was only little in size but not in age.<br /><br />Athena, whose main concern was for her darling brother, whom she'd practically raised on his own since his birth, could not help but notice how handsome and kind the Earl of Marden was after rescuing her brother. In her eyes, Ian became a hero and never did she realize that this `hero' was the rogue who practically killed him!<br /><br />Soon, after discovering that the `little' sister Attie was a young woman of nineteen living un-chaperoned in his bachelor household - Ian was resolved to save her reputation.  After a series of misadventures in trying to locate a suitable chaperone to stay at the house, Ian felt the best solution would be marrying her.  Unfortunately, Athena would not let Ian sacrifice himself just to save her - even though all the family members involved thought it to be a capital plan!<br /><br />***What can one say of another of Ms. Metzger's remarkable, totally charming, and delightful regencies that has not been said already?  The dialogs are witty, and consistently fresh with protagonists that are simply made for one another.  Secondary characters are always original and endearing, be they in human or animal form, and Roma, the deaf dog with a penchant for men's boots is no exception. If looking for an original, laugh out loud and charmingly romantic read, look no further than this heart warming and agreeable tale.<br /><br />*** Marilyn, for [...] ***out loud and charmingly romantic read, look no further than this heart warming and agreeable tale.  <br /> <br />*** Marilyn, for [...] *** <br />	2005-01-29
369007:US	45284807	R1EY01E86I4ICJ	0451213874	909369255	Across a Wild Sea	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Totally OUTSTANDING in EVERY RESPECT!!	Since my introduction to this author's work of her debut novel, UNDER A WILD SKY, first book in her `Wild Series' I've been totally awestruck by this remarkably original and creative author.  In ACROSS A WILD SEA, the author has again created another remarkable heroine in Allanah.  Blind since birth, Alannah's mother had set her adrift at sea, rather than risk the infant's life should the father discover she lived. A sailor found Alannah and brought her to his lover, a woman living in exile alone on an island, to be raised.  Growing up with only `grandmother' and the wild horses as her companions, Alannah's remaining senses became especially attuned to nature and as she roamed the island she was able to navigate with ease giving anyone observing her the illusion that she could see, particularly when watching her gallop her wild stallion, Claudius across the seashore.<br /><br />After a particularly ferocious storm when riding Claudius, Alannah came upon a man washed up from the sea.  Sensing danger AND his anger, she wanted him off her island!  Xanthier O'Bannon, was a very angry sea captain who blamed the fates for sinking his ship, and adding to his anger was this breathtakingly beautiful young woman who was treating him like a common sailor - totally intent on getting rid of him. After realizing he was hurt, she brought him back to the cottage where she and `grandmother' nursed him back to health.  Irresistibly drawn and completely captivated, he never realizing until some time later that she was blind. With Alannah, Xanthier found a peaceful bliss that soothed his soul. After discovering her true origins coupled with her disability, he was determined to do all he could to protect her.  Thinking it in her best interest, he took her off the island intending to petition the King for ownership of the island, but after learning of the existence of the island, the king made it a prize to be won in a horse race.  A race that would pit them against a common enemy, the outcome deciding whether they would ever have the blissful future they both desired.<br /><br />Crafting totally unique characters, the author imbues in Alannah a resourcefulness, which in spite of her disability, was a marvel to behold.  While Xanthier is not as likeable a hero as one would like, (recalling his nefarious plotting against his twin brother from IN A WILD WOOOD) the author manages to imbue compassion in him for the love he has for Alannah, and the sacrifice he ultimately makes in order to save his young daughters life. With a passionately sensual love story, and suspenseful plot this latest entry is sure to please the most discriminating of readers.  Read on its own merit, it's a stand alone and fascinating book; reading in conjunction with the previous novels of the series is a fabulous treat of an introduction to an extraordinary new author!! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---e outcome deciding whether they would ever have the blissful future they both desired.  <br /> <br />Crafting totally unique characters, the author imbues in Alannah a resourcefulness, which in spite of her disability, was a marvel to behold.  While Xanthier is not as likeable a hero as one would like, (recalling his nefarious plotting against his twin brother from IN A WILD WOOOD) the author manages to imbue compassion in him for the love he has for Alannah, and the sacrifice he ultimately makes in order to save his young daughters life. With a passionately sensual love story, and suspenseful plot this latest entry is sure to please the most discriminating of readers.  Read on its own merit, it's a stand alone and fascinating book; reading in conjunction with the previous novels of the series is a fabulous treat of an introduction to an extraordinary new author!! --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-01-29
369117:US	45284807	R1PMZ945RUZ1PY	0821778315	4149739	The Naked Duke (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fabulous DEBUT - An Author to Watch!	Miss Sarah Hamilton, a very proper Philadelphian, couldn't wait to have her journey end.  If she thought traveling by ship was bad, squeezed into a fully loaded carriage wasn't any better from the fetid air coming from her fellow passengers mouths and bodies.  Finally arriving at the Inn near her uncle's home, the Earl of Westbrooke, she was truly looking forward to a clean bed and chance to clean up before presenting herself on his doorstep.  Unfortunately, the innkeeper taking one look at her scruffy appearance thought she was `in the profession'.  If not for an amiable drunken lord she would never have gotten a room, but after a bath she tumbled into the bed and was out like a light.  Sarah didn't wake up until she heard a commotion at the door to her room and saw several onlookers, laughing and pointing fingers at her and - oh my God, a naked and exceptionally good looking man in her bed!<br /><br />James, the Duke of Alvord, was in fact, quite delighted with his beautiful bedmate and though he'd not take advantage of the sweet thing who was sleeping so soundly when he'd arrived  - was about to do just that before the interruption.  Though his bedmate did not look, smell, or act like most whores, as she was pummeling him with a pillow and ordering him from her bed.  Once he discovered that she was, not only the product of mistaken identity on the part of his best friend's good intentions, but related to said friend - James, was not at all adverse in doing the honorable thing by marrying the spirited American beauty.  The only problem was - she was not about to marry a duke!<br /><br />**** I have to admit - I am truly enjoying these newer authors who are debuting in the regency romance genre who delight us with some fresh new slants and spicy, original and enchanting stories.  Sarah was a truly likeable heroine and James was well met, though he was an absolute little devil with his double entendres that leant spice and humor to the dialogs.  What I was not expecting, though it added another layer to this excellent debut, was the drama injected with James' very evil cousin Richard.  The secondary plot of Richard trying to wrest the dukedom by eliminating James was extremely dark and based upon the cover artwork and the cover description, quite a surprise and very well done. Based on this, I must say to all you lovers of romance - we just might have a new star in the making!  This is definitely a new author that one should take a closer look at. ---[...]it added another layer to this excellent debut, was the drama injected with James' very evil cousin Richard.  The secondary plot of Richard trying to wrest the dukedom by eliminating James was extremely dark and based upon the cover artwork and the cover description, quite a surprise and very well done. Based on this, I must say to all you lovers of romance - we just might have a new star in the making!  This is definitely a new author that one should take a closer look at. ---[...]	2005-01-29
370135:US	45284807	R2WJ5TNUGVLCFF	0060502797	961958334	A Perfect Groom (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Tastefully Sensual and Sweetly Satisfying	In the second installment of the Sterling Family trilogy, Justin Sterling is touted as the `handsomest man in England' but underneath the handsome visage he bears deeply ingrained scars from a less than perfect childhood.  For years he has carried a deep secret guilt that has directed his wild and notorious reputation as a love`um and leave`um unfeeling rake. When challenged by an acquaintance with a similar reputation in a private wager to be the first to bed the season's latest debutante stunner labeled \\"The Unattainable\\" he decides to at least learn who and what the talk was all about.<br /><br />Discovering that the unattainable miss, was his childhood nemesis Arabella was indeed a shock especially as Arabella's opinion of him as an adult hadn't altered much -  other than to probably despise him more so for the wicked rumors that followed his adult footsteps.  The fact that she had blossomed from a red-headed harridan brat into a goddess surely disconcerted him and he was totally enjoying the challenge of matching her rapier sharp wit with his own double entendres.  When goaded enough he left her complete dazzled with a burning hot kiss....and romances being what they are,  Arabella began to look at Justin in a whole new light as he, shaken himself, decided that  perhaps it was time to turn over a new leaf!<br /><br />*** I really liked this story even though it was a relatively light plot, there being no big mystery, villain or such.  For me it was just an emotional, sometimes tearful, progression of two people who fell in love, yet naturally had such a hard time admitting to it (Ah, the stuff romances are made of!) Eventually, Arabella, with the help of Justin's brother Sebastian, came to understand the demons that drove him and was finally able to convince Justin that he was `worthy' of being loved.  With an impeccable writing style I truly enjoyed, and a tasteful sensual prose, I found this to be a sweetly satisfying read that most are sure to enjoy, and I truly am looking forward to the last Sterling sibling, Juliana's, story.<br /><br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] ---d I truly am looking forward to the last Sterling sibling, Juliana's, story.  <br /> <br /> --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2005-01-28
373208:US	45284807	R1MSI15Y9YMD8T	082177767X	654535476	A Rogue In A Kilt (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Sexy, Funny & Tender - AWESOME Read!	Setting - Scotland, 1410 --- Sir Angus MacDougall wanted desperately to be liege of Donaliegh keep and had accepted the wager of his best friend  Duncan to find a willing `lady' bride to be chatelaine of the keep - and he had three months to do this or forfeit six months pay.  Well, it seemed easy enough, Angus had never had trouble before bedding the wenches but his nickname of `Angus the Blood' a name he had cultivated, was not helpful in attracting the fair `ladies'. With less than a month left in which to find his bride, Angus came upon a vision emerging naked from a pool and when a wolf came out of the woods towards her he threw his dagger to save her.<br /><br />Birdalane, a healer, lived alone in the forest glen since she was a child. She had the ability to heal through a remarkable but painful process absorbing injuries and sickness into herself.  Seeing her pet wolf wounded she immediately pulled the dagger out and laid her body across him to absorb the injury.  By the time Angus arrived at her side, he thought he'd missed the wolf and hit her instead. Knowing he was responsible he raced her from the glen to find help in the nearest village.  A mission, which proved to be very strange as most people recognizing Birdalane, and frightened of her powers, slammed the door in his face!  With no one to take care of her but himself, plus being in enemy territory, Angus was forced to take her along on his journey, knowing he had little time left to find, woo, and wed a `lady' in order to win his wager.  Along their adventurous journey, Angus who had inadvertently hand-fasted with Birdie to save her, discovered that the only female he'd truly like to take as his wife was the accident prone and incredibly infuriating lass at his side.<br /><br />*** Well, I am happy to say that this second novel proves what I said of Sandy Blair's first novel MAN IN A KILT  - \\"...this is an author one should keep their eye on...\\"  In this, connected novel she has again brilliantly created a most unusual and absolutely wonderful heroine in Birdie.  Not only is Birdie lovely, she has unique gifts for healing, as well as being quite myopic - a condition that the author uses to generate both humor and compassion.  She crafted Angus' anguish at finding Birdie both so intensely desirable and innocent that he was being driven completely bonkers in attempting to do the right thing by her after mistakenly thinking he'd wounded her.  The different adventures they encountered on their journey kept a plethora of emotions going from sadness to pure unadulterated joy.  You'll laugh, you'll cry but you will so totally enjoy this author's latest offering that you'll just have to agree with me that this author is definitely on her way to becoming a star in the making in her sexy, funny and tender love stories!antly created a most unusual and absolutely wonderful heroine in Birdie.  Not only is Birdie lovely, she has unique gifts for healing, as well as being quite myopic - a condition that the author uses to generate both humor and compassion.  She crafted Angus' anguish at finding Birdie both so intensely desirable and innocent that he was being driven completely bonkers in attempting to do the right thing by her after mistakenly thinking he'd wounded her.  The different adventures they encountered on their journey kept a plethora of emotions going from sadness to pure unadulterated joy.  You'll laugh, you'll cry but you will so totally enjoy this author's latest offering that you'll just have to agree with me that this author is definitely on her way to becoming a star in the making in her sexy, funny and tender love stories!	2005-01-26
376064:US	45284807	R3FLR6NBZPCEHE	0821775332	959858475	Tennessee Waltz (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Refreshingly delightful - Post Civil War	Setting  - Post Civil War, 1866 --- It had been three long years, but finally, Billie D'Angelo had tracked down and found Destiny - the horse that had been stolen from her by a Union officer during the midst of the war.  Disguised as a raggedy young boy - the same disguise she'd used while spying for the Confederate army - Billie was bound and determined to steal back her horse.  Unfortunately, Grayson Vanderlyn, the Union Captain who'd commandeered him during the war and bought him from the army was not about to let the rapscallion young fellow make off with `his' horse!<br /><br />Caught while trying to race off with Destiny, Grayson brought Billie into his home whereupon his sister Lina, decided to take the `young boy' under her wing to clean and fatten `him' up.  After a gang of northern boys beat Billie, and a man from Billie's past, came by saying he was Billie's guardian as well as claiming Destiny as his, Grayson agreed to Lina's wishes to adopt the young fellow. Once Grayson left for Albany to set in motion the adoption, Billie took that opportunity to steal back Destiny and flee with him setting into motion a cross-country chase.  When Grayson finally caught up with Billie he found `him' emerging from a bath and discovered the young `rapscallion' had breasts and actually feeling quite relieved after questioning his seemingly unnatural attraction to the young fellow!  Shortly following this discovery, Grayson and Billie were both caught unawares, tied together in a very sexually provocative manner, and Destiny was stolen again!<br /><br />Grayson was more than willing to join forces and help Billie find Destiny, while Billie, confused over her attraction to a Yankee horse thief, convinced herself she wanted nothing more than to recover her horse.  After Billie's near death experience Grayson contrived to marry her, telling her it would just be until they could re-claim Destiny, but all the while praying that he could convince the stubborn rapscallion that her body was a  much better barometer of what she felt than her mind.<br /><br />*** This was a well-written and original romance with two wonderful protagonists. The post Civil War period was well researched and the mood of that wars tragic aftermath was well defined giving the romance an emotional poignancy.  Billie was creatively drawn as an endearingly non-perfect heroine sporting a slight handicap. Hanson has penned a strong story with moments that will pull at your heart strings yet still remains refreshingly delightful and totally enjoyable.  [...]much better barometer of what she felt than her mind.    *** This was a well-written and original romance with two wonderful protagonists. The post Civil War period was well researched and the mood of that wars tragic aftermath was well defined giving the romance an emotional poignancy.  Billie was creatively drawn as an endearingly non-perfect heroine sporting a slight handicap. Hanson has penned a strong story with moments that will pull at your heart strings yet still remains refreshingly delightful and totally enjoyable.  [...]	2005-01-24
382453:US	45284807	R20J5BVBTY1SMF	0060565160	330189272	Her Scandalous Affair (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Clever and Sweet Regency Romance	Now that the war was over, Richard, Viscount Mallory had finally come home to find his aged grandfather ailing with very little time left.  Cornered by his grandmother, she demanded that he go and recover the Mallory heart, an exquisite heart shaped ruby brooch Mallory family heirloom that had been missing for the last fifty years, so that his grandfather could die happy over it's return.  It had been spotted at a recent ton affair and he was to travel to London and retrieve it by whatever means possible.  It had to be fate, for the moment he'd entered the ballroom he discovered the brooch, and it was pinned upon the bosom of the very beautiful Lady Isabel Weymouth!  Managing to include himself in one of her `at homes' he slipped out of the drawing room to discover that all was not as it appeared as he searched for the lady's brooch.  Finding the other rooms stripped of any treasures, clearly, her financial condition was not as she attempted to portray - could she possibly be a jewel thief?<br /><br />Lady Isabel, was a darling of the ton, and desperately in need of securing for herself a wealthy husband.  Although, she was very much aware of the Major Lord Mallory, she new that the Earldom he was to inherit was in financial difficulty, and desperately needing cash to help her family, she simply had to marry for money. In keeping up appearances, she had borrowed her grandmother's magnificent brooch that she'd known was hidden in a secret drawer in grandmothers jewelry box.  She had planned on returning it the following day, yet discovering it missing, Isabel knew exactly who had stolen it.  Isabel was determined to steal it back and as the two became embroiled in a game of one-up-man-ship in stealing it back from one another the games began to heat up, as did their undeniable passion.<br /><br />*** This was a delightful romance as the protagonists each devised clever ways of stealing the brooch from one another.  The Latin inscription of \\"True love knows but one\\" proved to be a very prophetic statement as Isabel discovered that all the wealth she desperately needed and was offered by another was just not enough when her heart and passions were lost to another.  Other than the brooch, there wasn't a tremendous amount of intrigue and the inclusion of a mysterious woman whom Richard's brother had fought and lost a duel over was so insignificant to the story that I truly wondered why it was included at all.  The main mystery of how the brooch came to be held by Isabel's grandmother was appealing and the protagonists' efforts to keep it from one anther entertaining. Although not a keeper, it deservedly scores well as a worthy read.  ---- Marilyn, for [...] ---ne\\" proved to be a very prophetic statement as Isabel discovered that all the wealth she desperately needed and was offered by another was just not enough when her heart and passions were lost to another.  Other than the brooch, there wasn't a tremendous amount of intrigue and the inclusion of a mysterious woman whom Richard's brother had fought and lost a duel over was so insignificant to the story that I truly wondered why it was included at all.  The main mystery of how the brooch came to be held by Isabel's grandmother was appealing and the protagonists' efforts to keep it from one anther entertaining. Although not a keeper, it deservedly scores well as a worthy read.  ---- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-01-18
384457:US	45284807	R3NKM3NSIUI6Z4	0060565144	566994604	Once a Gentleman (Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet Trilogy)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A Lovely Romantic Read	For all the years Prudence Armitage had worked for Nicholas and his sister at \\"The Ladies Fashionable Cabinet\\", he'd never really gotten to know, the shy mousy looking young woman who diligently worked by their sides. Rather he took her for granted, almost like a second sister.  Now that his sister had left for an extended honeymoon, Prudence assumed Edwina's editorial duties. Late one evening Nicholas casually mentioned that she was working too hard, putting in too many hours, and assured that she was leaving soon he continued out the door for a night of entertainment.  However, the next morning when he was rudely awakened by an enraged father and a horde of `viking-like giants' demanding satisfaction for ruining his daughter and their sister who had never arrived home the night before - Nicholas realized they were speaking of Pru who'd fallen asleep at her desk!  Being a true gentleman, he would of course, do the right thing and offer her marriage though it was the furthest thing from his mind with Prudence being the least likely of candidates.<br /><br />Prudence, was horrified - having been in love with Nicholas since the very first day she'd met him.  Yet, married they'd be - the very next day!<br /><br />With the help of Flora, a retired demimonde and `fashion editor' of the paper, and the Crimson ladies, Prudence, began to reveal qualities that gave Nicholas food for thought.  Soon Nicholas was regretting his plans for an`in-name-only'marriage, and was formulating plans to make Pru his wife in all ways.<br /><br />*** This was a delightful finale to the charming Ladies Fashionable Cabinet trilogy featuring, Nicolas and Prudence. Uniquely stand-alone this was a look at a marriage forced upon two individuals who in appearance were as different as night and day.  Nicolas, the too handsome for his own good, charming, outgoing personality while Pru the complete opposite - small in stature, embarrassingly shy, and relatively content to blend into the background while letting others shine.  What was unique was that she didn't turn into a swan overnight, rather making the most of her other attributes.  While Nicholas did fall in love/lust with her, it was more for the beautiful person he saw, while her looks, which truly were never that bad once she removed all the accoutrements she used to hide them, revealed a more subtle beauty.  The humor was charming as Pru tried to put into practice the lessons of flirting and seduction received from Flora and the Crimson ladies - suffice it to say, Pru didn't turn into a seductress.  What was really important though, was how Pru came to realize that as `perfect' as she thought Nicholas was, she finally discovered he wasn't and she had gained enough confidence to give him a wake up call when she pointed it out to him.  This was truly a divine read, a slow, yet very moving and truly romantic experience.  --- Marilyn, for [...]round while letting others shine.  What was unique was that she didn't turn into a swan overnight, rather making the most of her other attributes.  While Nicholas did fall in love/lust with her, it was more for the beautiful person he saw, while her looks, which truly were never that bad once she removed all the accoutrements she used to hide them, revealed a more subtle beauty.  The humor was charming as Pru tried to put into practice the lessons of flirting and seduction received from Flora and the Crimson ladies - suffice it to say, Pru didn't turn into a seductress.  What was really important though, was how Pru came to realize that as `perfect' as she thought Nicholas was, she finally discovered he wasn't and she had gained enough confidence to give him a wake up call when she pointed it out to him.  This was truly a divine read, a slow, yet very moving and truly romantic experience.    --- Marilyn, for [...]	2005-01-17
387568:US	45284807	R1NRSOZ4BRX6S3	0060505621	263805357	Once a Dreamer	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Delightful Start To a New Trilogy	In ONCE A DREAMER, the very fiery and no nonsense realist Eleanor Tennant is on a mission to discover the identity of the person writing the insufferable Busybody column in the Ladies Fashionable Cabinet.  The columnist had written a reply to her niece Belinda's letter that would surely ruin her life.  Devising an elaborate plan in tracking down the Busybody, Eleanor followed a packet from the publishing house to the home of Lady Westover, where she would finally beard the Busybody in her den, AND give her a piece of her mind for dishing out irresponsible advice to her silly impressionable niece. Imagine her shock upon finding that the Busybody was in actuality a man - Simon Westover.<br /><br />Simon Westover, was a romantic, an idealist, and he loved women, falling in love numerous times and writing poetry (mostly bad) for whatever lady of the moment had captured his interest.  Now, standing in front of him was one of the most beautiful women he'd encountered, and madder than a hornet! Unfortunately, her disdain at discovering that he was the Busybody was not conducive in allowing him into her good graces.<br /><br />Threatening him with exposure, Eleanor forced Simon to accompany her to her home to `fess up' and personally retract his advice thereby setting her niece straight. However, upon arriving, they discovered that her impulsive niece had slipped out the night before leaving behind a note that she was `following her heart' - just like the Busybody advised!  Furious, Eleanor then insisted that Simon accompany her to find the wayward girl before she was completely ruined.  Several days of enforced companionship chasing the two lovers found Simon, the eternal optimist and pure romantic, and Eleanor, the stubborn realist, arguing one point after another.<br /><br />Eleanor, saw Simon as a silly idealist for harboring romantic tenants that she, as a young woman, once believed in herself.  Thinking him a fool she fought her developing feelings for Simon refusing to let them cloud her judgment and let down her defenses of ever allowing another man to break her heart.  Simon was just as fervent in chipping away, a little at a time, those defenses and hoping to change her mind and allow him in.<br /><br />*** This was a totally delightful read from an author whose talented pen quickly whisks the reader away to the regency period with charm, wit and subtle sensuality.  While I enjoyed the story, understanding Eleanor's motivation for being so hard on Simon for his romantic notions, I would have liked to hit her for being so obtuse in not recognizing his pure and honorable heart.  Simon, on the other hand, was downright adorable right down to his, uncontrollable blushes, his honorable generous nature, and his very `bad' poetry.  Putting aside Eleanor's shabby treatment of Simon, the story is a very entertaining foundation for the beginning of the Ladies Fashionable Cabinet trilogy. --- [...]d her judgment and let down her defenses of ever allowing another man to break her heart.  Simon was just as fervent in chipping away, a little at a time, those defenses and hoping to change her mind and allow him in.    *** This was a totally delightful read from an author whose talented pen quickly whisks the reader away to the regency period with charm, wit and subtle sensuality.  While I enjoyed the story, understanding Eleanor's motivation for being so hard on Simon for his romantic notions, I would have liked to hit her for being so obtuse in not recognizing his pure and honorable heart.  Simon, on the other hand, was downright adorable right down to his, uncontrollable blushes, his honorable generous nature, and his very `bad' poetry.  Putting aside Eleanor's shabby treatment of Simon, the story is a very entertaining foundation for the beginning of the Ladies Fashionable Cabinet trilogy. --- [...]	2005-01-14
391127:US	45284807	R13V2VO8MJOUZW	0451186265	53869018	AN Affair of Honor (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Perfect Fireside Romance	Viscount Colin Sedgewick thought he had died and gone to heaven, for it could only be an Angel with fiery red hair and cool and gentle hands slowly stroking his face that was ministering to his needs.  But as he slowly regained consciousness, the pain that was radiating from every part of his body, let him know that he was still alive.<br /><br />As she and her brother came upon the wrecked curricle by the side of the road, Meg Ashburton recognized at once that he was Lord Sedgewick, the one and only man that had asked her to dance at her disastrous season six years ago in London. How could she not? She'd fallen in love with him then and had never forgotten his kindness and his beautiful sweet smile. Naturally he couldn't possibly remember her as the tall, skinny, and extremely awkward, young girl from the beautifully filled out young woman she was now.  In bringing him to their home at Thornhill, Meg and her family would help him to recover during his convalescence.<br /><br />As he convalesced, Sedge came to look forward to the very sound of her footsteps in the hallway, and couldn't wait for the day he could hold her in his arms. Meg thought he was looking at her with more than just friendship but eavesdropping on his cousin speaking of Sedge's many conquests, she realized that Sedge would never marry her.  Therefore, when Sedge nervously made what she considered a very inappropriate proposal, Meg was devastated in thinking that he could have so disabused their hospitality and insulted her so. Sedge was just as devastated, thinking that he'd read her feelings so wrong and she harbored no feelings for him.  Much later, Meg thinking that her virtue was doing her no good, if she let the only man she'd ever cared for walk away decided to go and tell him she changed her mind.  Unfortunately, it might be too late as accident upon accident seemed to be shadowing Sedge with increasing frequency.<br /><br />***  This was an enjoyable and sweet traditional regency romance giving the reader a fully robust taste of regency England under the skillful pen of this enlightened author.  The flavor is very Jane Austen, with a bit of a mystery that, although easily surmised, will keep the readers interest. The author's character studies are also very well done with great interactions between the leads.  The romance itself was cute and `long Meg' a refreshing and likeable heroine.  This is the perfect romance for a nice fireside read on a cold and blustery Sunday afternoon. --- Marilyn, for [...]  ---y romance giving the reader a fully robust taste of regency England under the skillful pen of this enlightened author.  The flavor is very Jane Austen, with a bit of a mystery that, although easily surmised, will keep the readers interest. The author's character studies are also very well done with great interactions between the leads.  The romance itself was cute and `long Meg' a refreshing and likeable heroine.  This is the perfect romance for a nice fireside read on a cold and blustery Sunday afternoon. --- Marilyn, for [...]  --- <br />	2005-01-12
391595:US	45284807	R2E0OJRIOUDB5W	0821769170	143399929	Reckless (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Action Packed and Sensually Exciting Medieval	Setting - Scotland, 1375 --- Ailis MacFarlane, was not happy but resolved to marry Donald MacCordy, a man she despised in a betrothal arranged by her uncle and guardian Colin MacFarlane.  As it was the fate of women to be a bargaining chip for alliances amongst clans her only concession was that the three illegitimate children of her sister be allowed to come and live with her after the marriage.  Close as she had been to her sister Maire, she'd never been told who the children's father was.<br /><br />Alexander MacDubh, was rumored to be as handsome as he was arrogant and cold and he deeply hated Colin MacFarlane, the man who had killed his father and stolen Leargan from them.  When he learned that his youngest brother Barra had an affair and fathered three children with a MacFarlane lover whom he hadn't seen in years, he immediately set out to kidnap and bring the children back to be raised by the MacDubh clan. In the process of abducting the children he also brought back Ailis whom he'd mistakenly thought was the children's nursemaid.<br /><br />Ailis had been raised to hate and despise the enemy clan of the MacDubh's and consequently on the day that she and the children were kidnapped she hoped to keep her identity a secret until she could escape.  Ailis also knew that as a maiden of an enemy clan, her virtue would be forfeit before she would be released back to her clan. If they discovered that she was the heir to Colin MacFarlane she might even be ransomed. However, noticing that the MacDubh laird was the handsomest man she'd ever seen, and realizing that once she was finally ransomed back to her clan she would be married to the obnoxious Donald MacCordy who definitely would not be gentle - ravishment by Alexander seemed to be pleasanter alternative.<br /><br />*** I totally loved this story and Ailis was a fabulously strong and spunky heroine.  Knowing full well the laird of an enemy clan would ravish her, she decided she wouldn't fight and to make the most of the inevitable had a bottle of wine smuggled into her and got herself pretty well foxed before it happened!  The tipsy dialog surrounding the event was hilarious and while some may construe it as rape, I just did not see it that way at all.  Alexander, who tried so hard to assume indifference and to keep his hatred for anything MacFarlane had never counted on the passion he felt for the very beautiful Ailis, whose spirit and wit totally disarmed him.  The children were a delight especially when tiny five year old Sibeal came to her Aunt Ailis' defense, practically unmanning Alexander while giving him a complete dressing down - now that was a hoot!  The secondary characters including her loyal friend Jamie, the children, and the men at arms all add a wonderful depth to this action packed, and  sensually stimulating medieval romance.  ---<br /><br />Marilyn, for [...] ---the most of the inevitable had a bottle of wine smuggled into her and got herself pretty well foxed before it happened!  The tipsy dialog surrounding the event was hilarious and while some may construe it as rape, I just did not see it that way at all.  Alexander, who tried so hard to assume indifference and to keep his hatred for anything MacFarlane had never counted on the passion he felt for the very beautiful Ailis, whose spirit and wit totally disarmed him.  The children were a delight especially when tiny five year old Sibeal came to her Aunt Ailis' defense, practically unmanning Alexander while giving him a complete dressing down - now that was a hoot!  The secondary characters including her loyal friend Jamie, the children, and the men at arms all add a wonderful depth to this action packed, and  sensually stimulating medieval romance.  ---  <br /> <br />Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2005-01-11
403215:US	45284807	R9HJSFWZCRJ6K	0373293356	733311271	The King's Mistress	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Brilliantly Conceived and Masterfully Written Medieval	Setting - Silloth-on-Solway, England, 1178 --- Groomed since the age of 8 to be the consort of royalty, Marguerite of Alencon, had achieved that honor of gracing the Plantagenet bed of King Henry II. Beautiful, intellectually accomplished and fluent in several languages, Marguerite would be a worthy candidate for the title of Queen, only Eleanor of Aquitane, held that honor, and Henry was in no rush to replace her. Young and gullible, she believed the words of love spoken in passion and becoming pregnant, Marguerite thought she held the winning hand.  Therefore, she was surprised when Henry sent her to a convent to have his child, but the biggest shock of all was when he arranged her wedding to Lord Orrick of Silloth - one of the northernmost keeps and the furthest away from court.<br /><br />Orrick, Lord of Silloth was summoned to court by the king where he was to be rewarded for his service to the crown, with another title, gold and a `bride' befitting his standing in the esteem and respect of the king.  Worried but knowing a summons by the king was not to be ignored, nor were turning down the `gifts' a healthy option, Orrick reluctantly made the trip to court. When he first met Marguerite, less than an hour before the ceremony, he was pleasantly surprised and immediately taken with her beauty and held out some hope for his future. Marguerite though gracious, was still in denial, and advised Orrick to not be too disappointed or humiliated when Henry would stop the wedding. She was under the illusion that this was only a ruse to firmly chastise her for demanding that Henry marry her. Orrick knowing more of the volatile situation only hoped that `her' humiliation would not be too devastating and was prepared to do all in his power to protect and gain her love.<br /><br />*** This was another vivid look at life in the medieval world, richly detailing the court of Henry II.  The author brings to life, the harsh, unfeeling world of betrayals and subterfuge as nobles sought riches, power and advancement through manipulation, totally ignoring the feelings of the innocent.  Rigidly trained and browbeaten to believe her destiny was to be a royal consort, Marguerite actually fell in love with Henry, as she was molded into the perfect image of what a queen should be. Orrick was a superb hero, a lord that was intellectually astute and kind, he battled his feelings of lust for his wife to give her the time and space to trust him and come to terms with the feelings he sensed she had for him once she had the time to realize her affair with Henry was over.  The love story was beautifully developed and evolved slowly with an incredible sensual tenderness, which was a joy to behold.  BOTTOM LINE - Rich in historical detail, and written with tremendous depth of feeling, Brisbin continues to deliver another masterful and brilliantly conceived medieval! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---s sought riches, power and advancement through manipulation, totally ignoring the feelings of the innocent.  Rigidly trained and browbeaten to believe her destiny was to be a royal consort, Marguerite actually fell in love with Henry, as she was molded into the perfect image of what a queen should be. Orrick was a superb hero, a lord that was intellectually astute and kind, he battled his feelings of lust for his wife to give her the time and space to trust him and come to terms with the feelings he sensed she had for him once she had the time to realize her affair with Henry was over.  The love story was beautifully developed and evolved slowly with an incredible sensual tenderness, which was a joy to behold.  BOTTOM LINE - Rich in historical detail, and written with tremendous depth of feeling, Brisbin continues to deliver another masterful and brilliantly conceived medieval! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2005-01-03
410955:US	45284807	R2DN5XQTCEM58M	0446614416	327184177	The Beauty Bride	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Sensational Start of New Series	Setting - Kinfarlie Castle, Scotland, 1421 --- With a depleted treasury and forecasts of a bad harvest, Alexander, the new laird of Kinfarlie was in a quandry. He had five sisters and the eldest, Madeline, refused to marry. Discussing his problem with his cousin, they come up with the plan to `auction off' the `jewel' of Kinfarlie - namely Madeline.  The auction, to take place at his Uncle's nearby keep of Ravensmuir, would be offered only to the worthiest of men whom Alexander knew would be good to his sister. Naturally, Alex kept this plan a secret until Madeline walked into the hall and the bidding took place!  Furious, Madeline couldn't stop the auction.  Although in shock, she bravely faced this humiliation -thinking it an ill-conceived prank by her brother.  When the purported outlaw and traitor, Rhys FitzHenry won her hand, she even endured his claiming kiss, which shook her to her very core. But, no matter - never the obedient child -  she wasn't about to stick around for the wedding.<br /><br />The night before the wedding she ran away, never believing that Rhys would pursue her. But, as her hastily, ill-planned escape progressed, she was very glad he did as he came to her rescue.  Contrite, Madeline was now fairly resolved to her fate and open to taking a chance with the enigma that would soon be her husband as they traveled to a nearby abbey to be married.  Rhys consummated their union into a sensual dance of physical passion that convinced Madeline to work at making this a real marriage as she was determined do all in her power to discover his secrets, and in spite of his reticence, Madeline began to lose her heart.<br /><br />Rhys, continued substituting folk tales in answer to her many questions until he realized that he had, of all things, fallen in love with his courageous wife. Rhys knew she might soon discover the true reason for his mad dash to Wales and he decided to be honest by answering all of her questions.  He knew that she might end up hating him but loving her as he did, he would forfeit his own happiness for her.<br /><br />In this first novel of  Ms. Delacroix's brand new trilogy, the Jewels of Kinfarlie,  I found an exciting action tale fully packed with an assortment of well-defined forceful characters, both old and new.  Along with the wonderfully strong and engaging protagonists, Madeline and Rhys, I enjoyed the highly mischievous little fairy spriggan, Darg, and Madeline's youngest sister Elizabeth, who was the only person able to both see and communicate with the spriggan. AND, I certainly will be anxious to see what I hope will be a future confrontation between Tynan and Rosamunde - boy does he deserve a swift kick!  BOTTOM LINE - This is a prime example of the highly imaginative and entertaining novels Delacroix is celebrated for in a stellar start to what looks to be a sensational new medieval series that is heading straight for my `keeper shelf'!.  ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---p hating him but loving her as he did, he would forfeit his own happiness for her. <br />  <br />In this first novel of  Ms. Delacroix's brand new trilogy, the Jewels of Kinfarlie,  I found an exciting action tale fully packed with an assortment of well-defined forceful characters, both old and new.  Along with the wonderfully strong and engaging protagonists, Madeline and Rhys, I enjoyed the highly mischievous little fairy spriggan, Darg, and Madeline's youngest sister Elizabeth, who was the only person able to both see and communicate with the spriggan. AND, I certainly will be anxious to see what I hope will be a future confrontation between Tynan and Rosamunde - boy does he deserve a swift kick!   BOTTOM LINE - This is a prime example of the highly imaginative and entertaining novels Delacroix is celebrated for in a stellar start to what looks to be a sensational new medieval series that is heading straight for my `keeper shelf'!.  ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-12-28
412316:US	45284807	R294GZYR6QJH2I	0778321258	855313846	The Bride's Necklace	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Highly Enjoyable Regency - Tastefully Sensual	Setting - England 1804 --- Realizing that time had run out, Victoria Temple Whitting, knew she had to save her sister Claire from their lecherous stepfather, Baron Harwood. There was no time to think it through before she was forced to knock him out with a bed pan.  Fleeing in the night, with little more than they could carry, Victoria grabbed her family's heirloom necklace believed to hold the power of great happiness or terrible tragedy, to sell so they could finance their flight to London.  Gaining a mere pittance of it's value, Victoria was forced to pose as Tory Temple, widow, and seek employment, though this proved to be a difficult feat for one so young and without references. Things were dire indeed until she stumbled into the handsome Earl of Brant, Cordell Easton.<br /><br />Having tired of his mistress, Cord was in the market for a new bit of muslin to replace her and the enchanting beauty of the very innocent and nave Claire was intriguing. Cord hired Tory as his new housekeeper and Claire as a maid, believing he would soon be offering Claire a more lucrative position.  It didn't take Cord long to realize that while Claire's beauty masked an innocence even he would felt obligated to safeguard, it would be the elder sister, Tory, who would challenge and pique his desire in a way no woman ever had before. By the time Cord uncovered the truth of the sisters noble birth, their stepfather discovered their whereabouts and had come to take them away.  Furious at having been deceived, and never before allowing himself to feel, Cord could only save Tory by marrying her but would he be able to put aside his stubborn pride and admit to love.<br /><br />*** In a new dramatic trilogy, Kat Martin gives the reader tremendous bang for the buck in this very enjoyable romance.  I loved the character studies of the two sisters and the devotion and love Tory had for the childlike naivety of Claire, who at times seemed more child than woman.  Tory was an incredibly courageous young woman, who in spite of the love she felt for Cord, would willingly sacrifice it all in her attempt to protect Claire.  Cord himself was again another complex and fully developed character, whose lusty and sensual appetite for Tory was truly a joy to behold, yet he held back so much of himself he almost lost the most important thing of all.  Introducing several lively romantic sub-plots kept the action going in the this captivating novel including Tory trying to prove her stepfather guilty of murdering her father; Cord trying to rescue his best friend and cousin from the French; and of course, the introduction of the next protagonists for the second novel in this trilogy, Tory's best friend Grace and Cord's cousin Ethan.  All in all, this was a delightful and well-rounded romance with tasteful sensuality and enough twists and turns to keep the action at a fever pitch while enticing and leaving her legion of fans and myself anxious for the second novel in this highly enjoyable new trilogy......<br /><br />*** Marilyn, for [...] ---rageous young woman, who in spite of the love she felt for Cord, would willingly sacrifice it all in her attempt to protect Claire.  Cord himself was again another complex and fully developed character, whose lusty and sensual appetite for Tory was truly a joy to behold, yet he held back so much of himself he almost lost the most important thing of all.  Introducing several lively romantic sub-plots kept the action going in the this captivating novel including Tory trying to prove her stepfather guilty of murdering her father; Cord trying to rescue his best friend and cousin from the French; and of course, the introduction of the next protagonists for the second novel in this trilogy, Tory's best friend Grace and Cord's cousin Ethan.  All in all, this was a delightful and well-rounded romance with tasteful sensuality and enough twists and turns to keep the action at a fever pitch while enticing and leaving her legion of fans and myself anxious for the second novel in this highly enjoyable new trilogy......  <br /> <br />*** Marilyn, for [...] ---	2004-12-26
413883:US	45284807	R1V1QVXX9VIFQS	0425200132	44695369	Night of Sin	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sensual and Absolutely Mesmerizing!!! Recommended!	While Wild Lord Jack waited for the passengers disembarking from the ship walked uphill from the docks, his thoughts of a henna tattooed woman were pushed back from his mind as he watched the typical English whale bone corseted young woman fighting her way downhill through the stormy gale. Jack grinned and thought nothing more of the plain looking non-descript young woman although he noted the tough looking sailor roughly bump into her in his haste uphill. It wouldn't be until later that Jack, too late to save the sailor from being killed in the crowd, discovered that the expected parcel he should have been carrying was not there and he then remembered the young woman with the basket that the sailor had roughly jostled.<br /><br />Miss Anne Marsh, traveling in from the country arrived at her Aunt's home soaking wet, minus the umbrella that had been blown away by the wind. After pleasantries and sending her basket of foodstuffs from her family to her Aunt's  kitchen to be unpacked, was astounded when the maid came back to show her the strange item she had found in the basket.  It would be as a result of the strange artifact that much later that evening, Anne would be awakened from her sleep, by an intruder, who would then be attacked by a second intruder - Lord Jack.<br /><br />Anne, the daughter of a Dissenter minister, was engaged to be married to fine man, yet this strange beautiful man, who clearly was a gentleman of the nobility with his fine manners, was a total enigma to Anne.  She was in love with her fianc&eacute;, and looking forward to a quiet and companionable marriage. It then came as a surprise to her that she would allow this man, the younger son of a duke as it turned out, who'd burst into her bedroom in the middle of the night, willingly go along and let him lead her on an adventure the like of which she could never, ever have conjured up in her wildest dreams.<br /><br />***  I have been a fan of Julia Ross' since I first picked up one of her earlier novel, MY DARK PRINCE.  Since then, I have purchased each and every one she's written and she has consistently taken my breath away with her exquisite and mesmerizing passionate prose.  In this latest novel, NIGHT OF SIN, there is at the center the mystery surrounding the fossil that several have died in trying to obtain, but more importantly are the two main characters of Lord Jonathan \\"Wild Lord Jack\\" Devoran St. George and the plain minister's daughter Anne Marsh.  While Jack is complex with a very mysterious past, hinted at but never fully revealed until the end, Anne is what she appears but with an intelligent mind and an honest and forthright courage that  quite disarms Jack.  As they make their way to his home, Anne discovers a passion that he unleashes in her with a sensuality that totally disarms him.  Ms. Ross has again delivered another of her most sensually exquisite romances featuring a divinely complex and fascinating hero and wonderful heroine that the readers are sure to find absolutely riveting!! --- Marilyn, for [...] ---er novel, MY DARK PRINCE.  Since then, I have purchased each and every one she's written and she has consistently taken my breath away with her exquisite and mesmerizing passionate prose.  In this latest novel, NIGHT OF SIN, there is at the center the mystery surrounding the fossil that several have died in trying to obtain, but more importantly are the two main characters of Lord Jonathan \\"Wild Lord Jack\\" Devoran St. George and the plain minister's daughter Anne Marsh.  While Jack is complex with a very mysterious past, hinted at but never fully revealed until the end, Anne is what she appears but with an intelligent mind and an honest and forthright courage that  quite disarms Jack.  As they make their way to his home, Anne discovers a passion that he unleashes in her with a sensuality that totally disarms him.  Ms. Ross has again delivered another of her most sensually exquisite romances featuring a divinely complex and fascinating hero and wonderful heroine that the readers are sure to find absolutely riveting!! --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-24
419231:US	45284807	R215SUSAB2ZYOC	0843947780	916089995	Mistletoe & Magic (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb Christmas Anthology	The Fairy Godmother - Lynsay Sands (10*) - Roswald Keep, England,  1324 --- Lady Odel Roswald watched the sarchophagus settle over her fathers burial vault and just stood there, feeling nothing and wondering what she should be doing next.  That her father had never shown her any feelings of affection, her grief was non-existent.  Fortunately, she hadn't been alone very long when a round, little gray haired lady came rolling bursting upon her - a woman Odel would later discover  was her fairy godmother whose sole purpose was to find Odel a husband.  The problem was, in Odel's experience in dealing with a man, particularly the miserly and totally miserable one that was her father, she finally felt free and wanted no part of men - ever!<br /><br />*** Typical Lynsay Sands brilliance in creating unique characters with humor and passion -  total fun read!<br /><br />A Midnight Clear - Lisa Cach (10*)  --  Ooooh, this was so sweet, I'm still wiping the tears from my eyes!  When Catherine Linwood had come home for the holidays to her hometown of Woodbridge, Vermont she wasn't sure what she would find that would still  be familiar.  She had gone off some years ago to Mt. Holyoke College, then spent time with her very wealthy Aunt who showed her a different type of society in New York and the capitals of Europe.  She didn't think she'd changed, but home was familiar and when her very wealthy and very handsome suitor, Mr. Rose followed her home she was confidant that he would be the one yet questioned how she would know if it was love.  But a wish upon the first snow, from her sister Amy, brought her the things she most needed that Christmas.  A pair of spectacles with a cryptic message<br /><br />See far,<br /><br />And see near,<br /><br />But let your heart's<br /><br />Sight be clear<br /><br />With a little bit of help, Catherine just might see what was beneath her nose in the quiet unassuming, and very kind Will Goodman, owner of the general store had to offer her.<br /><br />*** Just loved every sweet morsel of this sweetly romantic homecoming love story!<br /><br />Angels We Have Heard on High - Amy Elizabeth Saunders (9*)  -- This again was a delightful story just made for the holiday season of the magic that seems to settle in around the holiday season. Set in Black Diamond, Washington, 1889 - Rose Shanahan, widowed, eight months pregnant and with two other small children had been asked to vacate her shanty coal miners cabin now that her husband was no longer alive and working the mines. Things couldn't have been worse with little food, little coal to burn and threadbare clothing barely keeping them warm.  When young Daniel, decided that their last night would be a warm, he snuck off to steal some extra coal from the mine causing a series of events that brought the mine owner, Joshua Asher, into their lives and proved once again that God works in mysterious ways....  *** Heartwarming and should bring tears to even the eyes of the most skeptical who don't believe in miracles.<br /><br />Here Comes Santa Claus - Stobie Piel (9*) - Ariana and Taran, two of St. Nicholas' most imaginative elves, were both trying to convince St. Nicholas that one or the other had to be let go.  Both were immensely attracted to one another, yet for one reason or another their attraction ended up as a fierce competition between their toymaking abilities. More importantly, their rivalry was causing disruptions in the production of toys for Christmas and St. Nicholas decided they would both be sent back to the place of their birth to redeem themselves by doing a good deed and solving  a problem which they would have to discover existed.  The biggest problem of all would be for the both of them to work together without killing one another first! --- *** Sweetly sensual tale of elfin matchmaking.<br /><br />*** Published in 2000 this is one of those really great feel good anthologies that is heartwarming, sweet, and just a superb read for sitting cozily by the fire!!  --- Marilyn, for [...] ------ Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2004-12-19
421548:US	45284807	R14RYWICG8JQSR	0373770170	171473225	Embers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Early Medieval Tale -- 716 a.d.	This second novel set in 716 a.d. in Wessex, southern England, tells the tale of the brother of Athelwulf, the hero from FORBIDDEN.  Athelbrand \\"Brand\\" is the hero who finds the woman he'd once loved beyond reason, who betrayed him, and whom he'd thought had been killed after she left him, the Pict Princess Alina.  Years before, he had helped her escape her betrothed, the ruthless and abusive madman Hun.  Now, Hun was dead by his hand and he'd found her alive, living in a nunnery in Wessex.<br /><br />With many lives in the balance, Brand was to deliver Alina to his king, where once again she would be used as a pawn in a political struggle both to save her father, and brother from execution.  Only Alina who still loved Brand, knew how she had betrayed him and felt now he would only want revenge.  Brand, who still loved her couldn't fathom her mind, or why she had run and thought she left because he had so little to offer her at that time.<br /><br />*** Once again, Kirkman tackles the very early days in Great Britain's history, complete with the Picts struggles against the Northumbrians.  She doesn't employ dialog as much as she expresses what the characters feel and their moods. In this story, the main character's motivations seem to be the focus of the story with secondary characters playing somewhat minor roles.  Unfortunately, I found this to be very slow moving and if not having read the previous book FORBIDDEN, I might have felt a bit lost as to what had transpired to make Alina and Brand feel guilt over what happened to Brand's brother Wulf.  Kirkman does have a writing style all her own though in this, if I'd not read the previous novel I would have been totally confused and floundering with questions.  The sensuality is pleasant but this came towards the end of the book.  Kirkman's debut novel (A MOMENT'S MADNESS) was exceptional but this latest novel will reap greater satisfaction if you read her second novel FORBIDDEN first.<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] --->--- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2004-12-16
425177:US	45284807	R3CIX2AW5B30I	1414007027	992533697	The Magic of Camelot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Return to the Magic of Camelot	In the THE MAGIC OF CAMELOT, the reader is introduced to Isabel, a natural-born witch, chosen to the bride of Mordred, the illegitimate son of King Arthur and his half-sister Morgause. The very first pages reveal Isabel's early childhood, from the moment she was taken from her biological parents to growing up as the adopted daughter of Margause, then later raised and tutored by the enchantress Morgan le Fey.  You will see the attachments Isabel formed for her foster brothers, Gawain, Gaheris, Agravain, Gareth and of course, Mordred.  The marriage between Isabel and Mordred was an intense encompassing all-consuming love that survived the ups and downs one could imagine with all the political intrigues, maneuverings and magical influences that bore down on them.  After her marriage, Isabel apprentices with and continues her studies under Merlin who after a while decided she was ready to become Arthur's advisor.  After that, she found herself embroiled in court politics that further strained her marriage to Mordred.<br /><br /> Told in the first person, in this expansively researched tome, the author paints a vivid picture of the sights, the sounds, the people, their clothing, food, etc.  Isabel also lends humor, both telling of some of her feeble attempts at magic in her younger days and coaxing other magical beings to do her bidding.  In one instance, I chuckled quite a bit over her talk with Ajax the magical horse, as she negotiated with him to do her bidding.  Then, in an aside, she would explain how horses were prone to flattery, but not very bright and likened them to `pretty cows with big egos'.<br /><br />Although Isabel inserted levity wherever possible, there was also the drama from the carnage of the battles that were fought and the devastation and cruelties were vividly portrayed. You'll feel the love she had for her favorite pure and honorable knights, such as Arthur, Gaheris, Gareth, Galahad, Percival, and Bors and moved to tears for those she loved and lost. In addition, you'll probably look differently on the adultery of Queen Guinevere and Sir Lancelot as they cuckholded the very honorable King Arthur who for years, looked the other way rather than hold his beloved wife and friend accountable for treason.  But more importantly, it humanizes Mordred who wasn't as bad as legends made him out to be.<br /><br />*** For those who love the Arthurian legends of Camelot, the knights and their ladies, here is your chance to delve deeper into the machinations of court life in Camelot.  Though I was rather intimidated by the size of the this book (TSP of 600+ pages) I found it to be an immensely enjoyable read that I can highly recommend to others who want to hear again the legends and experience the magic that was Camelot!<br /><br />*** Marilyn, for [...] ***d and lost. In addition, you'll probably look differently on the adultery of Queen Guinevere and Sir Lancelot as they cuckholded the very honorable King Arthur who for years, looked the other way rather than hold his beloved wife and friend accountable for treason.  But more importantly, it humanizes Mordred who wasn't as bad as legends made him out to be. <br /> <br />*** For those who love the Arthurian legends of Camelot, the knights and their ladies, here is your chance to delve deeper into the machinations of court life in Camelot.  Though I was rather intimidated by the size of the this book (TSP of 600+ pages) I found it to be an immensely enjoyable read that I can highly recommend to others who want to hear again the legends and experience the magic that was Camelot! <br /> <br />*** Marilyn, for [...] *** <br />	2004-12-13
436877:US	45284807	R1YKUH3IZ8EEH5	0060597283	714917732	My Own Private Hero (The American Heiress Series)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Another Winner Ending a Brilliant Trilogy	Setting - England, May 1884 ---  Miss Adele Wilson, the last and youngest of the three American heiresses, was the quiet, perfectly obedient daughter, never giving her parents any trouble.  She had seen her two older sisters, Sophia and Clare suffer through scandal and heartbreak in their quests to find the husbands of their dreams, but this was not going to happen to Adele.  She didn't join her sisters in their quest for adventure when they were younger, and she certainly wanted no part of a `season' in London now enduring endless balls and soirees.  What she longed for was a simple life in the country with Harold, the British Lord who had asked for her hand in marriage. He was everything she had hoped for, steady, kind and sincere who, like her, expressed a desire to live on his country estate, rather than in the city.  Although, her peaceful plans went awry, when after crossing the Atlantic, Adele was kidnapped from the ship when it docked to pick up more passengers. Drugged, Adele had no knowledge of how long she'd been held nor where, after having been kept unconscious during the flight. Some days later she was still hoping for Harold to come and rescue her. Only he sent his cousin, Damien Renshaw, Baron Alcester. He was not exactly her knight in shining armor but more of a dark avenger when during the fight, Damien killed her captor and she was wounded. Damien and Adele would then spend several soul searching days together before she could be quietly returned to her family without anyone the wiser and keeping her reputation intact.<br /><br />Totally intrigued Damien treated her with the utmost courtesy and respect. A known rake, he loved his cousin Harold and though Adele attracted him as no woman ever had, he was determined to resist his cousin's very proper and quite beautiful fianc&eacute;. Adele, on the other hand, wasn't making it easy on him.  Aware of the tales of Damien's scandalous reputation Adele was not immune to the pure animal magnetism he exuded and she, the most sedate and proper of the three sisters, was for the first time in her life having the most improper thoughts imaginable.<br /><br />This was an extremely good story as the last of the American heiresses conquered the British aristocracy.  It was so satisfying to see Adele, finally gain some spirit. Damien agonized over his guilt while trying to be loyal to the cousin he loved as he knew he'd finally found the one woman who should be his. This was especially apparent when he realized that she didn't really know Harold well enough to know that the life she wanted would truly be found with him.  The author penned delicate and brilliant dialogs and compassion into a lovely sensual awareness as she showed us the  metamorphous from the perfect obedient girl to a woman of passion in this fabulous end to the American Heiresses trilogy.  While a total stand alone novel, this along with the other two entries are a total `series keeper set'! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for  [...] ---d she, the most sedate and proper of the three sisters, was for the first time in her life having the most improper thoughts imaginable.  <br /> <br />This was an extremely good story as the last of the American heiresses conquered the British aristocracy.  It was so satisfying to see Adele, finally gain some spirit. Damien agonized over his guilt while trying to be loyal to the cousin he loved as he knew he'd finally found the one woman who should be his. This was especially apparent when he realized that she didn't really know Harold well enough to know that the life she wanted would truly be found with him.  The author penned delicate and brilliant dialogs and compassion into a lovely sensual awareness as she showed us the  metamorphous from the perfect obedient girl to a woman of passion in this fabulous end to the American Heiresses trilogy.  While a total stand alone novel, this along with the other two entries are a total `series keeper set'! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for  [...] --- <br />	2004-12-02
436935:US	45284807	R2Q6EVYL7WXPXF	0425199401	946215361	The Sun Witch (Fyne Witches, Book 1)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Totally Hot and Engrossing Novel	For three hundred years, the Fyne women have called the small cottage on the mountain their home. Fearing their powers, the villagers stay away, even though Isadora, Juliet, and Sophie use their powers for good. Years ago a spurned wizard put a curse on their family making true love beyond the reach of the Fyne women. Sophie's two elder sisters, have accepted their fate after Isadora fell in love and her young husband died after a very brief marriage. Both Isadora and Juliet have vowed a lifetime of celibacy but Sophie has been dreaming of a green-eyed stranger and when she discovers him, wounded and bedraggled on the other side of her bathing pool, she invites him to be her first lover. After loving and lying with him she leaves him still sleeping, but before she left and not realizing her true powers, she laid her hands over him and wished his body healed, and wished him luck!<br />A year later, the stranger Kane, has had unbelievable luck in his life since the day an `angel' rose out of the water and lay with him or so he thought. He's never forgotten her, and now has returned to discover if she was real or to banish all together the haunting image of what he feels must have been a dream. Instead, he discovers his `angel' with a child at her [...] - Ariana, his child. He wants to marry her, yet Sophie knows that if she lets herself truly care for and love him, it would mean his demise.<br />When a spurned suitor from the village of Shandley kidnaps baby Araiana in an attempt to gain power and riches once he discovered that Sophie's father was a highly placed minister of the emperor, Kane and Sophie join forces and set out on a dangerous journey to save their daughter. Passing through the land of the Anwyn on their way to the emperor's palace, Sophie herself was kidnapped by an Anwyn in search of his life's mate. Finally releasing her, Sophie and Kane continue on to even more dangers as they enter the city in search of their daughter and to find the answers to end the curse.<br />*** As a first time reader of this author's work, I was amazingly entertained and completely blown away by this highly imaginative and totally engrossing novel. While the main story featuring Kane and Sophie's pairing was amazing with a deeply sensual connection and romance, there was also a secondary relationship of love/hate going on between Kane's sister Liane and her captor, the emperor Sebestyen that was also totally HOT! Writing with a fresh and vividly alive slant, I simply couldn't put this book down. It totally satisfied me on all levels! I am certainly putting this author on my `watch list' and will be eagerly awaiting the next installment featuring Sophie's sister Judith and the Anwyn still in search of his life's mate, in this marvelously original Sisters of the Sun series.<br /><br />[...]urse.   *** As a first time reader of this author's work, I was amazingly entertained and completely blown away by this highly imaginative and totally engrossing novel. While the main story featuring Kane and Sophie's pairing was amazing with a deeply sensual connection and romance, there was also a secondary relationship of love/hate going on between Kane's sister Liane and her captor, the emperor Sebestyen that was also totally HOT! Writing with a fresh and vividly alive slant, I simply couldn't put this book down. It totally satisfied me on all levels! I am certainly putting this author on my `watch list' and will be eagerly awaiting the next installment featuring Sophie's sister Judith and the Anwyn still in search of his life's mate, in this marvelously original Sisters of the Sun series.     [...]	2004-12-02
437029:US	45284807	R265FMDL1T6X1H	045121367X	135620635	Proud Eagle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pleasant Native  American Indian Tale	Setting - Eagle Bay, Washington - 1880 --- Proud Eagle sat atop a hill watching a black draped woman kneeling at the grave of his enemy. He felt it must have been a member of the dead man's family, but he didn't know who it could have been. When a strong breeze whipped off the woman's heavy veil his heart clenched when he saw the beautiful face with long flame colored hair. Ever since a mud slide had claimed the life of his beloved wife, caused by his enemies callous disregard for cutting the forest too near his village, he felt a twinge of guilt for admiring the white woman and quickly rode away.<br /><br />Lumber heiress Billie Shaughnessy had arrived in Eagle Bay to mourn her father's passing, determined to carry on his legacy and run the lumber operation as she knew he'd intended. She'd noticed the Indian on the hill, and even from a distance had admired the handsome brave, not knowing that he was the chief and her father's biggest rival. She'd had no idea who he was until fate would draw them together as she wrestled control of the lumber company from her father's unscrupulous partner. After reading her fathers journals she discovered his complicity in causing the devastating mudslides she was determined to make things right with the Makah clan and chief Proud Eagle in particular. During the process the rivalry between them would be turned into an unforgettable passion.<br /><br />As one reads Ms. Edwards series based on the different tribes of native American peoples it is easy to see that she holds them in high regard, and honors them through a thorough research on their heritage, lifestyle and habits. In this episode she fills the pages not only with some truly sensual episodes, but also takes the time to explain the food, clothing, and history of the People. This was a very quick read, filled with interesting facts of what was for me a little known Washington based clan. Fans of Ms. Edwards will find this to be another pleasant book in her Native American series to cherish.<br /><br />--- Marilyn, for [...] ---ican series to cherish. <br /> <br />--- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2004-12-02
437380:US	45284807	R1FJBC0F41SAMO	0451213866	384726906	Hard Day's Knight (Signet Eclipse)	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Wacky and Fun Read	Unemployed and unattached, Pepper Marsh was convinced by her cousin CJ that she would find the perfect man for her at a jousting competition at the Renaissance Faire in Ontario.  Pepper wasn't at all sure of finding the `perfect' man but my, oh my, the men dressed up as knights, in their oh so skinny tights was enough inducement to turn the tide for Pepper who finally agreed to dress up and walk around the fairgrounds dressed in a very revealing bustier as a medieval `wench'!  As it happened, Pepper did meet up with her knight in shining armor the very first day as he saved her from being pounded into the ground by a run away steed.  Unfortunately, the devilishly sexy knight, with the very deep velvety voice didn't seem as taken with her as was in trading insults with the man who almost ran her down.<br /><br />Walker McPhail, was once a champion jouster until the day he crippled an opponent.  Since then, he stayed out of the ring, preferring to train and squire other jousters. Pepper was not about to let the reticent, moody, and incomparably sexy man get away - not when it seemed fate and a cunning maniacal cat seemed to keep them running into each other. She knew he was her destiny and she only had to convince him that he was hers!<br /><br />Katie MacAlister, has become a master in creating offbeat and wacky heroines, that are not perfect female specimens - but just perfect for the heroes they ultimately end up with.  In this latest novel she crafts a heroine who's self-esteem needed some boosting, as well as a hero who needed a push in the right direction to begin believing in himself again. She then she fills the pages with humor, wonderfully witty dialogs, highly sensuous bed sports, and lovely mix of supporting players to make this another delightfully sexy and tantalizing read that proves MacAlister to be a master of her game.  Using an unknown (to me) real life organization for the re-creation of medieval games and times was a real treat, and had I ever been aware of such a thing as the League of Wenches (AND, if I was maybe 20 years younger) I'd probably be joining up myself!  What a fun read this was!<br /><br />---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...]ever been aware of such a thing as the League of Wenches (AND, if I was maybe 20 years younger) I'd probably be joining up myself!   What a fun read this was!  <br /> <br />---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...]   <br /> <br />	2004-12-02
437436:US	45284807	R7HPVPUIBR38Y	0843952067	665774559	Carnal Gift	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Awesome! Totally Awesome!	Setting - 1754 - Ireland and England --- This was an extremely good historical that showed us atrocities heaped upon the Irish by the English, with strong tones of religious persecution.  The protagonists are Brighid, a poor Irish peasant girl and Jamie Blakewell, an American colonist come to seek a favor from an old school chum, Sheff, who in their intervening years from pleasant schooldays pranks and carousing had changed immeasurably to a bitter and vengeful man.<br /><br />During an English hunt the party came upon an outlawed Catholic funeral and Jamie  would be struck by the beauty and innate pride of the peasant maid Brighid.  Sheff, ready to hang the peasants for practicing their outlawed religion was held back by Jamie's impassioned plea for leniency.  Sheff making note of his friend's attraction to the peasant girl later arranged to have her snatched back to his hunting lodge as a surprise gift for Jamie. By threatening the life of her brothers, Brighid would be blackmailed into appearing willing.  Jamie, knowing that they were being observed had all he could do to convince Brighid that he would not harm her and convince his `peeping Tom' friend that he was `doing the deed'.  The fact that Bridhid's hatred and contempt for all things Sasanach, including the handsome stranger, would make his heroic attempt to save her all the more difficult.  Not withstanding, of course was Jamie's attraction for the beautiful maid and only his honor and innate goodness would make keeping her safe from Sheff as problematic as keeping her safe from himself.<br /><br />The nefarious undertones of this novel were superb showing the libertine and morally depraved actions of Jamie's friend. As both Brighid and Jamie came to realize a love between them that could never be between a Catholic and a Protestant, the sensuality of the hopelessness was skillfully written with heart wrenching emotion.  This was an obstacle that I have rarely seen have as much prominence in a historical romance thus far, yet, the romance, the thoughtfulness and kindness were truly a joy to experience.  In addition, to the protagonist's story there is also a sweetly rendered romance between Brighid's brother Fionn and friend Murin.  Sprinkled liberally with sensuality, action, adventure, and some wonderful doses of Goidelic phrases, this is a novel to please all lovers of this historical romance genre.<br /><br />  ***** Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for historicalromancewriters.comical romance thus far, yet, the romance, the thoughtfulness and kindness were truly a joy to experience.  In addition, to the protagonist's story there is also a sweetly rendered romance between Brighid's brother Fionn and friend Murin.  Sprinkled liberally with sensuality, action, adventure, and some wonderful doses of Goidelic phrases, this is a novel to please all lovers of this historical romance genre. <br /> <br />   ***** Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for historicalromancewriters.com <br />	2004-12-02
439125:US	45284807	R2FNLN1E5VS97S	0451213777	770818540	Siren (Signet Eclipse)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Highly Entertaining Swashbuckler Historical	Leonore Roncival, a pirates daughter, was rumored to be, among many things, a `siren' who lived her life on a private island paradise, surrounded by treasure, and who picked only the most handsomest men as her lovers.  So it was with this knowledge that Jean Lafitte, the legendary pirate, came to conquer her domain and steal her treasures.  - Only he found that her legendary beauty was nothing compared to the reality and, as such, it would be she, his Lionheart, who conquered him in a passion that would be beyond anything either had ever known.<br /><br /> From the very first pages of this impressive novel the reader is treated to a colorful  tapestry of sights and impressions set amongst the vivid streets of New Orleans to the colorful beaches of the Caribbean as the author takes you on a high seas adventure blending fiction with actual historical fact.  In highlighting the political struggles during this time the author captures the flavor of the period in keeping the reader entertained as she cleverly weaves in the tumultuous love affair between Leonore and the pirate, Jean Lafitte.<br /><br />As a lover of history, I certainly enjoyed the factual (I looked up several of the mentioned names and events) references to the people and of course, to Jean Lafitte himself.  Although little is truly known of Lafitte's origins, the legends surrounding his life certainly made him a truly fascinating character study.  Leonore, was fictionalized although one could truly believe she just might have been real, or at the very least, it would have taken someone with her strengths and beauty to have finally captured the attention and the heart of the very elusive Jean Lafitte.  Though attracted and loving each other as much as they did, her secret ancestry itself was as much an impediment as the foolish pride that kept them apart.<br /><br /> While I truly enjoyed the total historical aspect of the novel, it was not as heavily loaded with as much passionate sensuality as I personally like to see in a romance.  The love affair and the dialogs were much more captivating than any actual sexual episodes which were generally summed up in a paragraph or two.  Consequently, for those looking for hot, steamy and passionately descriptive episodes, you won't find them here.  In spite of the lack of heavy sensuality, this was a most entertaining novel highlighting the trials and tribulations two star-crossed lovers had to overcome to be together. ---<br /><br />Marilyn, for [...] ---s I personally like to see in a romance.  The love affair and the dialogs were much more captivating than any actual sexual episodes which were generally summed up in a paragraph or two.  Consequently, for those looking for hot, steamy and passionately descriptive episodes, you won't find them here.  In spite of the lack of heavy sensuality, this was a most entertaining novel highlighting the trials and tribulations two star-crossed lovers had to overcome to be together. ---  <br /> <br />Marilyn, for [...] --- <br />	2004-12-01
445946:US	45284807	R3VDH3TPX067J8	0804119929	681195138	Foxfire Bride	Books	5	5	6	N	N	You'll SImply Love the Journey	Though the name might sound strange, Fox is a woman, reputed to be one of the best scouts in the business before a gunshot to her leg put a halt to her career.  Now she and her best friend, Peaches, an elderly black man who has been her companion since she was a young child are living quietly trying to make a living cutting and selling ice.  Fox now has one goal in life, and that is to end the life of the man she holds responsible for ruining hers when she was but a child - a life that should have been one of wealth and privilege rather than the hard and dangerous life she'd been forced to live. The man she planned to kill was Hobb Jennings, living high and mighty in Denver off of the inheritance that should have been hers.  Therefore, it had to be providence that brought the handsome stranger into her life looking to hire a scout to guide him through the wild and untamed wilderness to Denver within three months.<br /><br />The man was Matthew Tanner and if he couldn't reach Denver in three months time, with a ransom in gold the people who had kidnapped his father would then kill him. Tanner didn't tell Fox, when she signed up at an exorbitant fee to guide him exactly why he needed to get to Denver. Fox originally looked at Tanner as a Godsend, but had she realized that they would be escorting a fortune in gold she was savvy enough to realize the increased risks. She also wasn't too keen on the two disreputable looking guards he'd hired, but after negotiating a position for Peaches to come along they all set out on an incredible adventure that would change a lot of how they looked at life.<br /><br />As an introduction to this author I was extremely impressed with this well-written and captivating story.  Fox was certainly a most interesting and intrepid heroine, never revealing her true name until the very end.  Driven by revenge and hatred, she was fiercely loyal to her best friend Peaches and their special bond like father and daughter was superbly well done as well as the friendships that developed over the journey with the two guards, Hanratty and Brown.  The romance between Tanner and Fox, both having no expectations of any kind of a happily ever after was sweet as well as a bit humorous at times. Reading between the lines I was not surprised by the outcome at the end of the journey, yet it in no way took away from any of the romance nor any of the enjoyment of the thrill of the ride.<br /><br />BOTTOM LINE: You'll laugh, you'll cry, but you're definitely going to love the journey this author takes you on.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---as well as the friendships that developed over the journey with the two guards, Hanratty and Brown.  The romance between Tanner and Fox, both having no expectations of any kind of a happily ever after was sweet as well as a bit humorous at times. Reading between the lines I was not surprised by the outcome at the end of the journey, yet it in no way took away from any of the romance nor any of the enjoyment of the thrill of the ride.   <br /> <br />BOTTOM LINE: You'll laugh, you'll cry, but you're definitely going to love the journey this author takes you on.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---	2004-11-24
453943:US	45284807	R3FWRR8P2DYJE9	0515131784	985264154	Double Trouble	Books	4	60	62	N	N	Both Funny and Serious - Good Read!	When Maralys O'Reilly received the phone call from her 10 year old nephew telling her he and his younger brother were stranded because their mother, her twin sister Marcia hadn't picked them up, she raced across Boston to get them. Bringing them home she was surprised to find a note - from her sister not addressed to her, but hey, under the circumstances she read it - telling the boys father, James that she was leaving - and good luck with the boys!  Maralys and James had been at each other's throats for a long time, but she'd never imagined there was so much trouble in paradise.  Besides Marcia leaving for parts unknown, James was deep in debt, losing his job and his inheritance.<br /><br />Surviving a bad marriage and climbing out of debt herself, Maralys wasn't sympathetic for James, even though Marcia seemed to be in the wrong to just abandon them.  As a web-designer running her own business, Maralys was emerging into her own writing code and running an advice column on the web. She now found herself offering advice to James on downsizing and living more modestly.  Surprised when he took her advice, started downsizing and moved into a middle-class neighborhood, Maralys, who'd used anger as a safeguard to her heart, was now looking at James in a new way. When James started putting moves on her, Maralys began to wonder if he was looking for a substitute wife or, was he looking for more.  More importantly, was she ready to take a chance on love again.<br /><br />I found this contemporary to be both humorous and serious. It demonstrates how innocent comparisons made by parents can have an effect on shaping a child's psyche.  In such a way, the author characterized Maralys as this wise cracking cynic who at thirty something was still a rebel - using cynicism as a shield to mask barbs still being inflicted by an aging father and caused her to retreat into the safety of her cyber world rather than living in the real world.  James was also drawn as a bit more complex then just the abandoned husband, whose live had been given a major shake-up and now was learning how to be a real father. The kids were sweet, even as they too were given a `wake-up' call from living high to a more modest way of life.<br /><br />While not your ordinary romance, especially with the ex-brother-in-law getting involved with his ex-wife's sister, it is still a romance, but with a surprising twist that readers will enjoy. The often-irreverent musings of advice on the internet will have you all thinking of Dear Abby, and there are truly some gems of sage advice to the lovelorn here!  - BOTTOM LINE - Although not your typical boy meets girl romance - it is amusing  and provides some food for thought on how innocent remarks made in the hearing of little ears can have life-changing repercussions.  --- Marilyn, for [...] ---ex then just the abandoned husband, whose live had been given a major shake-up and now was learning how to be a real father. The kids were sweet, even as they too were given a `wake-up' call from living high to a more modest way of life.    <br /> <br />While not your ordinary romance, especially with the ex-brother-in-law getting involved with his ex-wife's sister, it is still a romance, but with a surprising twist that readers will enjoy. The often-irreverent musings of advice on the internet will have you all thinking of Dear Abby, and there are truly some gems of sage advice to the lovelorn here!  - BOTTOM LINE - Although not your typical boy meets girl romance - it is amusing  and provides some food for thought on how innocent remarks made in the hearing of little ears can have life-changing repercussions.   --- Marilyn, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2004-11-17
456060:US	45284807	R3A29SEUHDWMDO	006054175X	777912160	His Every Kiss (Guilty Series)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Very Interesting - Nice Sensual Read	Dylan Moore was a brilliant pianist, composer, and conductor whose music was his first and only love and now, reckless as always, his escapades could, to the casual observer, signal something more - like perhaps a death wish?  For Dylan, since falling from his horse, the noise in his head was a fate worse than death for he could no longer hear the music.  One fateful night he was ready to end it all until a mysterious beautiful violinist came to his rescue and for a moment - he heard the music swirl around her in a lovely melody.  Though he tried to find her it would be five long years before he located the  woman who had stopped his suicide and stirred his soul.<br /><br />Grace Cheval, knew when Dylan found her again that she wanted nothing to do with him - he was so much like the artist she had wed and left - the type of man who didn't know how to love anything but their art.  Unfortunately, she was destitute as well as disgraced and had very little options left in order to survive, so she accepted Dylan's offer of a position of governess to his newfound daughter.  Grace, a passionate woman who had spent so many lonely years alone now denied herself and the growing feelings Dylan inspired.  She fought every kiss that was slowly and surely melting the ice around her heart, but before she surrendered to the increasing passion could she melt the ice around his?<br /><br />I thought this was an absolutely dynamic character study of a brilliantly gifted man and woman. He who was so tormented by an accident that diminished his ability to compose and play the music that he loved.  While Grace, who had fiercely loved and saw that love wasted on a husband who had no room in his soul to love anything other than his art, knew that Dylan was cut from the same cloth. When her dire circumstances led her to accept the position he offered she was sure she would not make the same mistake of allowing herself to fall in love with him.  The secondary and beautifully crafted 8-year-old illegitimate daughter Isabella, was both the catalyst that began Dylan's initiation into a caring human being and gave a superb strength to the overall plot as Dylan began to see himself in his small daughter.  Isabella, the very precocious daughter was a total delight even as she exhibited some of the same spoiled selfish brat traits of the father that he found weren't quite nice.  While there were not a lot of actual passionate encounters, the underlying sensuality of the story was extremely well done and I totally enjoyed the beautifully contrived character studies of both the protagonists and the deeply sensual romance.<br /><br />*** I get thoroughly upset when readers slap a book because they might not 'get it' - My advice - read and decide for yourself! -<br /><br />--- Marilyn Rondeau,  for  [...]  ---ar-old illegitimate daughter Isabella, was both the catalyst that began Dylan's initiation into a caring human being and gave a superb strength to the overall plot as Dylan began to see himself in his small daughter.  Isabella, the very precocious daughter was a total delight even as she exhibited some of the same spoiled selfish brat traits of the father that he found weren't quite nice.  While there were not a lot of actual passionate encounters, the underlying sensuality of the story was extremely well done and I totally enjoyed the beautifully contrived character studies of both the protagonists and the deeply sensual romance.   <br />*** I get thoroughly upset when readers slap a book because they might not 'get it' - My advice - read and decide for yourself! -  <br />--- Marilyn Rondeau,  for  [...]  --- <br />	2004-11-15
470175:US	45284807	RBGWIW3LZEA3A	0821777785	763014157	Unlaced (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Great Debut Novel - Fresh and Original  4-1/2*	Setting - Essex and London, England, 1817 ---  Henry Ashton, the Marquess of Mandeville, is certainly in no rush to marry, although in his mind the perfect bride would be a perfectly biddable lady, wealthy and from enough of a powerful enough family to enhance his own rising political career. Handsome, wealthy, titled - he could have his pick of the crop of the season's eligible misses, so why does one very unconventional golden haired lass with brilliant green eyes, and sassy mouth confound his senses?<br /><br />Miss Lucy Abbington, is indeed an unconventional Miss, in spite of her outstanding success in her first season debut, Lucy has no intention of marrying.  She agreed to a `season' in London only to have access to and be able to attend some lectures on veterinarian medicine.  Her grand passion was to one day hang out her shingle and care for the animals she loved - at least that was what she thought her passion was, until she met and kissed the Marquess of Mandeville.<br /><br />I found this to be an exceptional debut regency that captured my attention from the very first pages. Between causing a fight at the opera, then almost getting ravished in a carriage, Lucy didn't lack for excitement as she got her first and lasting taste of the ton.  In this I was treated to fresh writing, witty and intelligent dialogs, and believable plot lines.  If I could offer any critiques it would be a lost opportunity for the author to develop a sub-plot of revenge against Henry when he publicly saved Lucy from the clutches of Lord Sinclair.  It seemed as though that insult to Sinclair could have had something to do with a later attack on Henry, but that was never fully explained away.  In any case, neither of these small points in any way hindered the outcome or total enjoyment of this delightful debut and this tale certainly whetted my appetite for the sequels to this proposed quartet of related novels.  BOTTOM LINE  -  This is a great read to savor for lovers of historical romance.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---torical romance.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] --- <br />	2004-11-01
470407:US	45284807	R3FYRFGDJS8QLI	006059330X	301978253	A Lady of His Own (Bastion Club)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Still Steamy, But Not her Best - 3-1/2*	Setting - Cornwall, England 1816 --- Escaping matchmaking mama's, well-intentioned sisters, and other interfering females, Charles St. Austell was thrilled to accept another mission from his ex-commander Dalziel to travel to his ancestral estate in Cornwall and ferret out rumors of spies working with the smugglers in that area. Restless, unable to sleep his first night home, he was astonished to discover his neighbor, Penelope Selborne, walking through his home in the middle of the night.  He knew Penelope rather intimately from a one-time tryst that occurred thirteen years previously.  When Penny studiously avoided him after that one passionate interlude, and being third in line to the Earldom, Charles joined the service, going to live in France, setting up a spy network reporting back to the Home Office.  With his father and both brothers now deceased, Charles was now the new Earl and knew he must marry and beget an heir.<br /><br />It didn't take long before Charles uncovered a mysterious plot that put the Selborne family right in the middle of treasonous activities, and endangering Penny's life.  He also realized that the years apart hadn't stopped his loving Penny, and as she again attempted to keep him at arms-length, he wasn't about to let her slip away from him again.  Between trying to ferret out a cold blooded assassin Charles set into motion a sweetly sensual seduction to make Penny his Countess.<br /><br />Stephanie Laurens is an auto-buy for me and I eagerly await each and every novel that is released, even though I can't imagine any of her new heroes supplanting Devil Cynster (sigh), or the Cynster series!  With this third entry in the Bastion Club series, I struggled with the first 80 pages of this book as the groundwork was slowly and meticulously laid. Thankfully the action finally picked up rather well after that.  I am not adverse to steamy sexual scenes, but have to admit that after so many instances with Penelope `shattering' as she reached for the moon - I was again, getting bored?  More importantly, when a man takes as much time, patience, and extreme efforts to please a woman, without gaining his own satisfaction, how could any woman have any doubts that he might not love her?  Being a huge fan, I hate to say it, but this was not one of Lauren's best!  One thing, she has accomplished though is that she has certainly whetted my appetite to discover more about the mysterious master-spy commander, Dalziel, so you know I'm coming back for more! --- Marilyn, for (...)again, getting bored?  More importantly, when a man takes as much time, patience, and extreme efforts to please a woman, without gaining his own satisfaction, how could any woman have any doubts that he might not love her?  Being a huge fan, I hate to say it, but this was not one of Lauren's best!  One thing, she has accomplished though is that she has certainly whetted my appetite to discover more about the mysterious master-spy commander, Dalziel, so you know I'm coming back for more! --- Marilyn, for (...)	2004-11-01
470605:US	45284807	R1QB6RGH09OIF	0451411757	551320873	Midnight Rain	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Inventive Plot - FABULOUS Read!!!!	This romantic thriller has just about everything you could ask for in an action packed story filled with suspense, intrigue, a broad brush stroke of the paranormal, and topped off with a great romance that makes it sizzle.  Phoebe Rain had survived 8 years married to a sick psychopath. She evaded him for two years until the day he finally tracked her down showing up in her classroom to create total mayhem and killing two of her students before she was able to stop him.  Struggling with the injuries she sustained from the gunshot that blew out most of her knee, Phoebe was ever vigilant just knowing that he still lived, even though he was still in the coma she'd put him in for the last two years. When threatening phone calls started, Phoebe didn't want to believe, but knew that the voice belonged to the twisted man who had vowed to never let her go.<br /><br />Once before, Phoebe had ignored the warnings she'd heard from beyond and disaster had struck. She would not ignore the warnings again and when the apparition of a young girl appeared to her begging her to go and help her neighbor, Phoebe listened. At 3:00AM in the morning, she went and knocked on the door of her neighbor, Dr. Alan MacKerrie, to warn him of the danger.  Extremely apprehensive of the warnings from a comparatively stranger, a young woman he'd lived next door to for two years, he found her story hard to believe except that he himself had received warnings from the same young child -  and he knew that child to be his very own daughter who had died five years earlier.<br /><br />Using an inventive plot the author pits these two wonderfully needy protagonists together to battle inexplicable threats from a psychopath killer lying thousands of miles away, in a coma, reportedly at death's door. Phoebe who hadn't dared to dream of a happy ending for herself, and Alan who had ceased to believe in living after the fiery death of his beloved daughter were drawn together by need and a mystical connection through his daughter's warnings.  To put it bluntly, this was one heck of an absolutely riveting suspense/paranormal romance - totally AWESOME!  Hello, Hollywood this could be a blockbuster!  Frankly from Chapter 21 on I was having such an adrenaline rush, I could have jumped out of my skin for all the suspense and terror.  BOTTOM LINE  - This is superbly, fascinating ride of a suspense filled romantic thriller that culminates with a perfectly wonderful heart wrenching soggy tissue ending!  Do yourselves a BIG favor and find this book for a FABULOUS  read. --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---on through his daughter's warnings.  To put it bluntly, this was one heck of an absolutely riveting suspense/paranormal romance - totally AWESOME!  Hello, Hollywood this could be a blockbuster!  Frankly from Chapter 21 on I was having such an adrenaline rush, I could have jumped out of my skin for all the suspense and terror.  BOTTOM LINE  - This is superbly, fascinating ride of a suspense filled romantic thriller that culminates with a perfectly wonderful heart wrenching soggy tissue ending!  Do yourselves a BIG favor and find this book for a FABULOUS  read. --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-11-01
470902:US	45284807	R10ERPI39PHZV5	0451212487	426357869	Dangerous Deceptions	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Exquisitely Suspenseful	YOU ARE SUMMONED.....three words that would be forever imprinted on the mind of Jarrett, Lord Dering.  Disowned years ago by his father, Jarrett lived a life that most of the ton described as near dissolute. He lived by his wits and gambling, courting the very elusive Lady Luck.  With this mysterious summons he would be compelled to enter into a game more dangerous than anything he'd ever encountered before along with a female associate that was immune to his undeniable charms.<br /><br />Kate Falshaw, was also summoned, to play a part in the machinations of a secret  band of fellows that was dedicated to righting the wrongs of privileged nobles in the highest circles of Regency society. As both Jarrett and Kate work together to infiltrate and bring down the dark underbelly that operated in Paradise, Kate's distrust and antagonism towards the reputed rake began to lessen as she discovered the hidden  man beneath the faade, treasuring whatever memories she could to take away with her when the job was done --- before he ever discovered the dark secrets she harbored from her past.<br /><br />This was an amazing story and first installment on a wonderful new trilogy by the award-wining author Lynn Kerstan. The two very unusual protagonist's were remarkably well matched with individually complex backgrounds that sent them both on journey's of self discovery as they came to understand and help one another unravel and come to terms with their past lifes mistakes and embrace the passion that simmered beneath.  Along with a plethora of well defined secondary characters and an intricate plot line, this book will keep the reader flipping pages far into the night and waiting in anticipation for the next installments in this new and promising action packed trilogy.  BOTTOM LINE - This exquisitely suspenseful, action packed, and exciting tale should not be missed by fans of this mistress of exotic romance.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---/>	2004-11-01
471014:US	45284807	R5QCD7IG978JP	0821777556	490780565	Somebody To Love (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Outstanding Early New York Historical	Setting - New York 1883 --- Araminta knew adversity and although raised in genteel but humble circumstances it didn't take her long before the child realized that though her mother was white, her darker skin set her aside from the poor yet privileged white children. An exceptional chef, through strength, determination and hard work, Araminta was determined to realize her dream of opening her own restaurant on her own. After a series of jobs, she would only have to endure the employment of this less than reputable employer for just a short time more before it would be accomplished.  However, running into the very wealthy and supercilious, Griffin Calverson, once again, was not a welcome sight as he aroused in her feelings she had long ago put away as impossible dreams.<br /><br />Griffin Calverson, had the Midas touch for making money and accumulating all kinds of physical properties.  Yet in spite of his immense wealth, he was alone. Discovering once again Araminta Woodhall, the outspoken sultry beauty that once worked for his sister, he realized that she awoke in him a passion that set his heart on fire and he vowed to make her his.  The rules of the society of that day would forbid a marriage and he arrogantly offered her carte blanche never realizing that with Araminta, the cost of passion could only be bought by the gift of his heart.<br /><br />This is the second novel following the debut, SOMEBODY WONDERFUL, by an amazingly fresh and original new voice in historical romance.  In this she has again charmed the reader with her witty intelligent dialogs and  two protagonists who are as different as night and day... Notwithstanding the difference of color, they were perfect for one another and only Araminta would have the wherewithal to read the great Griffin Calverson the riot act and tell him exactly what an unfeeling jerk he was!  Naturally, after his initial anger at her impudence he realized that he admired the fact that she stood up to him.  This was another outstanding novel set in New York City amongst the dirty politics (Tammany) and greed that took place during that era.  The author writes with humor, passion, page-turning intensity and really digs deep into her characters flaws and eccentricities. This seems to be an author one must definitely put on their watch lists! Superb reading.... --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ----is was another outstanding novel set in New York City amongst the dirty politics (Tammany) and greed that took place during that era.  The author writes with humor, passion, page-turning intensity and really digs deep into her characters flaws and eccentricities. This seems to be an author one must definitely put on their watch lists! Superb reading.... --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ----  <br />	2004-11-01
472486:US	45284807	RC3SIJZV7RE3J	0451213459	33588751	Insatiable	Books	5	10	14	N	N	The Gold Standard For Historical ROMANCE	Set at the end of the Tudor reign, Lord Patrick Stewart, was summoned to the court of James VI, King of Scotland. James, knowing of Patrick's gift of foresight, wanted to know when the throne of England would be his and sent Patrick as his emissary to the court of Queen Elizabeth I to see if his `gift' could foretell when he could expect it. Traveling to England and staying at his friend Robert's home he came upon the young woman he'd seen and had been plaguing him in visions that had aroused him in a way no woman ever had.<br /><br />Lady Catherine, gifted with beauty and an innate sense of style had been brought up at court. Her impeccable style brought her to the attention of Elizabeth who made her the queens very own dress designer.  Gifted with all the graces and enjoying being in the limelight, she was also the recipient of an impulsive personality that led her to push the envelope as close to the edge of propriety as was allowed. As it happened, it was not under the best circumstances that Catherine met Patrick.  Cat mistakes him for a poacher, and a barbarian Scot and the sparks do fly! Patrick, of course, recognizes Cat as the woman from his visions and baits her unmercifully, also realizing that though she was the most exquisite woman he's ever met, she's also a little hellcat who needed taming and he was just the man that was going to tame her.<br /><br />Try as she might to deny the attraction, Cat would find that Lord `Bloody' Stewart's arms were the only safe haven she would ever know or want.  Set in the tumultuous end of the Tudor reign, amidst the powers struggles and intrigues of two powerful courts, Cat and Patrick find themselves embroiled in plots of deceit and danger that threatens to topple the throne - and tear the lovers apart.<br /><br />My God! What an exciting, enthralling, and totally HOT read!  You will just fall in love with Lord \\"Bloody\\" Stewart, as he sets out to tame the impulsive and diminutive Lady Catherine!  Steeped in rich historical detail, Henley has fashioned a magnificent pairing of two perfectly fabulous protagonists in this `over the top' sensational new offering!  With an impeccable writing style, Henley transports her readers to feel like players on a stage surrounded by actual historic events.  BOTTOM LINE - Henley writes with undeniable passion for both the romance and the period in this beautifully sensual tale that I really hated to see end.  -- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---rich historical detail, Henley has fashioned a magnificent pairing of two perfectly fabulous protagonists in this `over the top' sensational new offering!   With an impeccable writing style, Henley transports her readers to feel like players on a stage surrounded by actual historic events.  BOTTOM LINE - Henley writes with undeniable passion for both the romance and the period in this beautifully sensual tale that I really hated to see end.  -- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-10-30
476199:US	45284807	R119QH4NW0DJ2E	0060567090	31908434	The Return of the Earl (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable and Entertaining	Setting - England, 1810 --- Taking one long look at the clear blue sky Geoffrey Sauvage and his 12 year old son Christian stepped down into the darkness of the belly of the Retribution - a prisoner transport that would take them to New South Wales and away from England for fifteen years.  Fifteen years later, a man claiming to be Christian Sauvage has returned to England after receiving a letter notifying him that he was the new Earl of Egremont.  Having been a child when he left who was to say that he was that same person.<br /><br />The young woman, engaged to marry the other claimant for the earl's title remembered that her cousin, Julianne Lowell, knew Christian before he was transported and invited her for a visit, never telling her the true reason and hoping to prove Christian as an imposter. As the battles raged over who was the rightful heir it was hoped that, Julianne, sister to the Christian's best childhood friend might be able to identify him through some common recollections of childhood memories.  Julianne remembered the young lad, but the handsome man with brilliant blue eyes was an enigma.  The more time spent together she felt that he was that young lad grown up, yet she couldn't say for certain as the elegant, well-bred and polite, grown man simply stole her breath away.<br /><br />This was a beautifully written and entertaining story of intrigue, betrayal and romance. Both the protagonists were truly likeable and Julianne was wonderful. I truly liked that she was nobody's fool, who very early on realized that her cousin was using her, and let her know she knew it. The secondary characters were all well defined with reasonable depth for even those cast in minor roles. I can't say I was surprised by who the culprit was, but there were some surprises in at the end that did sneak up on me.  As far as sensuality goes - it was clearly felt (though not acted on)throughout though I felt the story was steered more towards the mystery.<br /><br />BOTTOM LINE - I can recommend this as a most enjoyable read with enough action  and characters you care about that will keep you turning the pages in order to solve the mystery.  --- Marilyn Rondeau (...)d this as a most enjoyable read with enough action  and characters you care about that will keep you turning the pages in order to solve the mystery.  --- Marilyn Rondeau (...)	2004-10-27
478974:US	45284807	RVMLEFYSCZOOZ	0843952431	687986171	Texas Viscount (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Funny - Action Packed - A Totally Entertatining Read!	Setting - Edwardian England, 1901 --- When the very proper teacher of deportment, Sabrina Edgewater, was talked into doing her cousin a favor by meeting the ship of the newly arrived American heir to an Earldom, the soon to be Viscount Wesley, Mr. Joshua Cantrell she didn't know that her life as she knew it was about to change.  Approaching the docks, she couldn't help but be appalled as she witnessed a very tall, disreputable and oddly dressed man having an altercation with a sizeable crowd gathered near the end of the wharf - no, please, surely not him!  Joshua Cantrell, would need some polishing according to British standards, but coming to the aid of a lady, even a street doxy, was something this brash and bold Texan would do. As the fight spread her way, and noticing Sabrina who was directly in the path, Joshua then came to her rescue and grabbed a hero's kiss.  Unfortunately, before he could  discover her name he was hauled off by the local police officers.<br /><br />Raised in a Texas bordello, Joshua Cantrell was a self-made millionaire who initially turned down the offer of a title, until his old commanding officer TR, newly made President of the US, asked him to travel to London to help avert an international assassination plot.  He was pleasantly surprised to discover he really liked his great-uncle, the Earl, but when the uncle suggested that a tutor be employed to refining him into becoming a proper English gentleman, he thought `not'!  Well, that is until he discovered that his tutor was going to be none other than the very cute and uptight little bundle of indignation, he'd met at the docks!<br /><br />When I had initially read the reviews and the excerpts available I looked forward to reading this book thinking it would be good - well, it was NOT good - it was FABULOUS!  This book comprised all of the elements I look for - a well-researched plot for the historical era, titillating dialogs, humorous scenes and wonderfully matched protagonists!  Joshua's down home folksy analogies were absolutely hilarious, as he and Sabrina fenced words in a bit of foreplay for the sizzling attraction that set off sparks whenever they got together. The whole intrigue plot was marvelous and full of action as well. This was an exceptionally quick read only because I found it so hard to put down! The author filled this with a superb cast of secondary characters, adding great depth to the story. I truly enjoyed Joshua's wily great uncle the Earl of Hambleton, playing cupid who was truly a darling adding even more zest to an already totally entertaining read! BOTTOM LINE --- The lively dialogs and repartee's filled with a Texan's down home analogies along with an exciting plot made this one of Henke's best in her American Lord series - simply outstanding! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---Joshua's down home folksy analogies were absolutely hilarious, as he and Sabrina fenced words in a bit of foreplay for the sizzling attraction that set off sparks whenever they got together. The whole intrigue plot was marvelous and full of action as well. This was an exceptionally quick read only because I found it so hard to put down! The author filled this with a superb cast of secondary characters, adding great depth to the story. I truly enjoyed Joshua's wily great uncle the Earl of Hambleton, playing cupid who was truly a darling adding even more zest to an already totally entertaining read! BOTTOM LINE --- The lively dialogs and repartee's filled with a Texan's down home analogies along with an exciting plot made this one of Henke's best in her American Lord series - simply outstanding! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-10-24
482460:US	45284807	RUJAWF639FLUH	0312992831	21363897	More Than Seduction	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Sizzles!	Setting - Rural England - 1813 --- Mrs. Anne Smythe has has turned her farmhouse inheritance into a going concern as a healing spa for women.  Near Bath, the hot springs on her property seems to have some healing properties, and her innate knowledge of healing has attracted a modest but privileged clientele.  Hearing of the healing properties, Lady Eleanor has come to beg Anne to accept her brother, war hero, Captain Stephen Chamberlin, as new patient.  When Anne adamantly refuses and Eleanor thinking that this was the last hope she had for her brother, she had her footmen drag her brother out of her coach and propped him up on Anne's doorstep - then she took off!<br /><br />Anne despised the nobility and was furious at the audacity of Lady Eleanor, but the pathetic heap of humanity that was the unconscious, and filthy war hero couldn't be ignored. Anne would keep him and arrange for his return to his family estate as soon as possible.  Cleaning him up and after putting Stephen's childish arrogance in his place, she agreed to help heal him and before long the healing waters began to work their magic both in healing Stephen and unleashing Anne's latent sexuality as they embarked on a most erotic love affair.  In spite of his lofty heritage, he was only a third son, penniless, and now living on the largesse of his father unless he married an heiress. Anne, doesn't fool herself into thinking that anything good could come of the affair, only her heart had fallen irrevocably in love even though her good sense wished otherwise.<br /><br />What I've come to expect from this author are deeply sensual and erotic sexual nuances and in this, I wasn't disappointed. Not only did she give the main protagonists a powerfully sensual tale but, a secondary sizzler featuring Lady Eleanor and Stephen's friend Charles, which by the way, ran neck and neck to the main story.  There was sufficient depth to the story, and I could feel for Stephen over his injuries, but would have liked to strangle him when he couldn't commit or even try to come up with some possibilities for the woman he professed to love!  With Eleanor and Charles, even though she was a bit dim witted at one point, she seemed to deal with her relationship much better, even though her previously bitter marital experience gave her just cause to be wary. One has to applaud Ms. Holt as well, for her adeptness in handling the lesbian issue in a thoughtful and tasteful manner. Unfortunately, what I truly did have a bit of trouble with, was the manner in which Stephen dealt with the very brutal Willy McGee - not that the sick pervert didn't deserve what was done to him but whew - it did bother even my sensibilities!  Bottom Line - While fans of Holt will find this an interesting and highly sensual tale, it will touch on issues that might be uncomfortable for some. Just don't discount this altogether because for those who love their romances filled with the spice and the erotic, this is one is for you!!! (...)en he couldn't commit or even try to come up with some possibilities for the woman he professed to love!  With Eleanor and Charles, even though she was a bit dim witted at one point, she seemed to deal with her relationship much better, even though her previously bitter marital experience gave her just cause to be wary. One has to applaud Ms. Holt as well, for her adeptness in handling the lesbian issue in a thoughtful and tasteful manner. Unfortunately, what I truly did have a bit of trouble with, was the manner in which Stephen dealt with the very brutal Willy McGee - not that the sick pervert didn't deserve what was done to him but whew - it did bother even my sensibilities!  Bottom Line - While fans of Holt will find this an interesting and highly sensual tale, it will touch on issues that might be uncomfortable for some. Just don't discount this altogether because for those who love their romances filled with the spice and the erotic, this is one is for you!!! (...)	2004-10-21
484055:US	45284807	R2NM5L1TPRT51T	0843952423	636862421	Rebel Baron	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Solid Entertainment in the American Lord series	Setting -  American and England 1865-67 ---  Brandon Caruthers had fought for the Confederacy and the loss was painful but coming home to the devastation and ruin of his horse farm River Trails was far worse.  Only with the help of his friend `Sin', who had managed to hide his prize stallion did Brand have any chance of rebuilding his fortunes. Ultimately losing his farm to the corrupt bankers and carpetbaggers, Brand was just about beaten until he found he'd inherited a barony in England.  After using what funds he had for passage and to bring his prize horses to England, he found that along with the title, he'd inherited an entailed and run down estate without funds for upkeep.<br /><br />After being turned down by most of the banks for a loan, Brand had been summoned to the offices of the last bank on his list, run by the very wealthy widow, Miranda Auburn.  Miranda had noticed the `Rebel Baron' and had him thoroughly investigated to see if he were the right candidate for a proposition she had in mind.  The proposition was marriage - not to her, but to her daughter Lorilee whose interest in a wastrel was one her mother wanted to nip in the bud!  Not happy with being manipulated but rather desperate for the loan, Brand agreed to meet the daughter, and would marry ONLY if the daughter agreed.<br /><br />While wooing the daughter, Brand became only too aware of the Miranda as a woman and not the `tough as nails' businesswoman.  During the courtship it became apparent that someone was trying to kill Miranda and as Brand saved her life several times he became her very own hero. More and more Miranda, became aware of Brand as a very virile man who she'd begun to admire and that wouldn't do at all for this independent, no nonsense business woman.<br /><br />Not only has the author filled this with a plethora of well-drawn secondary characters, but she's given us a rare twist with a heroine older than the hero. Brand was a strong and admirable lead character, and when handed a beautiful young heiress on a platter, that could have been the answer to his prayers, he truly didn't want to take advantage especially when he realized it was the mother that had captured his heart.  Miranda was a wonderfully strong heroine who couldn't afford to let her femininity show as she attempted to control a business dominated by males. It would take her daughter and the maid Tilda's badgering before she could let herself feel, let alone trust the handsome American.  I totally enjoyed the very nasty and crude, ex-fiance of Brand's who was also a perfect foil for some very `catty' and amusing put-downs, and Lorilees' plotting when she realized where the Rebel Baron's true interest lay were wonderful as she attempted to play matchmaker.  Bottom Line -  This was another enormously entertaining offer from Henke's American Lord series that is sure to please! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---d when handed a beautiful young heiress on a platter, that could have been the answer to his prayers, he truly didn't want to take advantage especially when he realized it was the mother that had captured his heart.  Miranda was a wonderfully strong heroine who couldn't afford to let her femininity show as she attempted to control a business dominated by males. It would take her daughter and the maid Tilda's badgering before she could let herself feel, let alone trust the handsome American.  I totally enjoyed the very nasty and crude, ex-fiance of Brand's who was also a perfect foil for some very `catty' and amusing put-downs, and Lorilees' plotting when she realized where the Rebel Baron's true interest lay were wonderful as she attempted to play matchmaker.   Bottom Line -  This was another enormously entertaining offer from Henke's American Lord series that is sure to please! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-10-20
490031:US	45284807	R1AIAFJH2OPI82	0446614629	623502160	Highland Princess	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Tremendous Historical Detail - 4-1/2*	Setting - Isle of Isla, Scotland- 1366 --- Lady Mairi Macdonald, daughter of the Lord of the Isles, was beautiful, intelligent, and one of the kingdom's most sought-after brides. Up until this time she had yet to be attracted to any man, least of all the man her father had decided he would wed her to who was of royal blood. Meeting the very impudent and thoroughly infuriating Lachland Maclean, Mairi was amazed by the attraction and was definitely interested.<br /><br />Lachlan \\"The Wily\\" Maclean,  Highland warrior, was an absolute charmer, made friends easily while garnering information wherever he went. He was a most well-informed man however, the introduction to Lady Mairi belied the information he'd heard of her loveliness because for him, she was perfection. Determined, he was not above doing whatever it would take to make her his - even if she was promised to another and knew that her father would never agree to a union with the `upstart' MacLean clan.  Not to be put off, Lachlan was resolved to bring the MacDonald around to his way of thinking, even as another powerful adversary was plotting betrayal to not only take Mairi for himself, but the very kingdom as well.<br /><br />This was a very potent and thoroughly researched historical romance. Her protagonists were a delight in which I thoroughly enjoyed the playfulness of Lachlan and the honesty of Mairi as both acknowledged their attraction to one another right from the start. Mairi, always interested in history and politics, loved the fact that she was able to have a conversation with a `man' who actually listened to what she had to say. Lachlan, was rather broadminded for the period and liked that she stood up to him (to a point). While the romance was sweet with an exciting ending, it was perhaps a slower paced read  from an author who generally delivers a wicked fast reads.  Bottom Line - Tremendous detailed historical background combined with a sweetly sensual romance. ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---[...] --- <br /> <br />	2004-10-14
491879:US	45284807	R1SL3E5IEVI6Q9	0446613819	669111569	Wedding for a Knight (Warner Forever)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Another Great Scottish Highland Read	Lady Amicia MacLean was wary when her brothers informed her that they had arranged a marriage for her - that is until she learned whom the prospective bridegroom to be was.  It was like a dream come true, even if it was to be a proxy wedding - the groom was none other than Magnus MacKinnon, the boy she'd fell in love with when she was only a child of twelve. At the time they'd met, they'd each been from rival clans, but Amicia held fast and kept the love she had for him alive in her heart for all the intervening years. Now, with Magnus finally coming home a returning hero, the rivalry has been put aside and Amicia was overjoyed.<br /><br />Magnus MacKinnon had been away for many years competing in tourneys in an attempt to win enough to reinstate the MacKinnon's keep back to some semblance of it's former glory and to be able to win the hand of the Amicia MacLean, the young raven haired girl who'd stolen his heart years ago.  Magnus MacKinnon, bone weary both in body and mind, was coming home, but penniless now that his hard earned winnings had been stolen while he battled the English at the battle of Dupplin Moor.  The last thing he needed was discovering that he now had a `bride' waiting for him whose generous dowry was already being used, Magnus' pride and honor had just taken another hit! Oh, he wanted her alright but he wanted to be the one to rebuild the clan's fortune, not from the coin received from his bride.<br /><br />Discovering that Magnus was ready to have the marriage annulled and have Amicia sent back, she dug in her heels - Amica was not about to give up after coming so close to having her dreams realized.  She'd do whatever was necessary to tempt the stubborn Highlander into consummating their union. With time running out, and an evil force lurking in the shadows wanting to wipe all traces of the once mighty MacKinnon clan off the face of the earth, would Amicia ever see the happily ever after she'd been waiting all her life for?<br /><br />Sue-Ellen Welfonder, whose love of Medieval Scotland is so great one wonders if she isn't a reincarnation of one of the loving souls she creates in her stories. She maintains the magic and mystery that devoted fans have come to expect from her meticulously researched and highly entertaining Highland reads. In WEDDING FOR A KNIGHT she has injected originality, excitement, and a glimmer of the mystical along with a deeply satisfying love match.  Amicia is a superb heroine - one who knows her own mind and was not about to be cast aside.  The other truly enjoyable thing about both protagonists was that she was not the perfectly svelte glorious looking typical heroine, rather one with a `real' body -  flaws and all -  and that our hero thought of her as perfection! Bottom Line - The latest entry in her MacLean series is a stand-alone original  `stand-out' of a Highland gem! --- Marilyn Rondeau for [...] ---ove of Medieval Scotland is so great one wonders if she isn't a reincarnation of one of the loving souls she creates in her stories. She maintains the magic and mystery that devoted fans have come to expect from her meticulously researched and highly entertaining Highland reads. In WEDDING FOR A KNIGHT she has injected originality, excitement, and a glimmer of the mystical along with a deeply satisfying love match.  Amicia is a superb heroine - one who knows her own mind and was not about to be cast aside.  The other truly enjoyable thing about both protagonists was that she was not the perfectly svelte glorious looking typical heroine, rather one with a `real' body -  flaws and all -  and that our hero thought of her as perfection! Bottom Line - The latest entry in her MacLean series is a stand-alone original  `stand-out' of a Highland gem! --- Marilyn Rondeau for [...] ---	2004-10-12
496728:US	45284807	RZGZ8V87SMVIL	0446612332	516487918	Master of the Highlands	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Moody Ultra Hot Hero	Setting - Isle of Doon, 1331 - Iain MacLean feels like a useless piece of humanity, with a black temper, and a sour disposition, everyone runs from him. He blames himself for the death of his wife Lileas, and his family is at their wits end in trying to get him to return to the land of the living. Accidentally setting fire to the family chapel during one of his rages has been the last straw, and his brother Donall, the Laird of the MacLeans, has set him on journey of penance to atone for his latest folly. Along the way, he runs into Lady Madeline Drummond, disguised as a postulant nun. Iain is totally amazed because he spots, what appears to be, a nun stealing a holy relic from a sacred shrine! Iain cannot believe what he's seen, nor can he control his feelings that he `knows' her.<br /><br />Lady Madeline, is blessed, or cursed with the ability to read ones deepest heart felt thoughts. She is on a mission to commit an act that is abhorrent to her, and though she dreams of a `shadow man' that warms her heart and soul, she tries to ignore the feeling; compelled to continue on her quest to find and murder the man who killed her father and stole her birthright. She discovers this `shadow man' recognizing him as her dream lover, and through more misadventures they hook up. The journey is then hilarious as she tries to control her lustful feelings for him, and Iain, posing as her husband who is `painfully' controlling his urges to ravish the postulant nun!<br /><br />I found Master of the Highlands to be a vastly entertaining and deeply sensual medieval romance that utilizes just a wee bit of magic tossed in to give the protagonists even more appeal. It utilizes the MacLean Bane as central to it's plot. The MacLean Bane - A characteristic that distinguishes the MacLean males setting them apart from all other men: the fierceness of their heated blood and their ability to love, truly love, only one woman, the latter trait being either a blessing or a curse. I loved the fact that the author wrote such depth of feeling in each protaganist - allowing you a little glimpse into their souls. There is a huge buildup for the ultimate first time seduction, or in this case the clash of the titans as they were BOTH so very hot for one another. Throw in a little witchery, and then for those of us who like our hero's moody, ultra HOT, and SEXY than this is the one for you! This should be a definite book for your buy list!<br /><br />--- Marilyn for [...] writers.com ---he fact that the author wrote such depth of feeling in each protaganist - allowing you a little glimpse into their souls. There is a huge buildup for the ultimate first time seduction, or in this case the clash of the titans as they were BOTH so very hot for one another. Throw in a little witchery, and then for those of us who like our hero's moody, ultra HOT, and SEXY than this is the one for you! This should be a definite book for your buy list!  <br />--- Marilyn for [...] writers.com --- <br />	2004-10-08
497244:US	45284807	R1CSSUPV7XFNRV	0451411587	198702590	Heat of the Moment	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hot, Sexy and A Completely Satisfying Read!	In the footsteps of the first novel INTO THE FIRE featuring those sexy Gamble men, this sequel is also set in New Orleans, featuring Cort Gamble. Chock full of suspense and some very hot sensuality it is a non-stop read as a serial arsonist, torches a well-known bar claiming 15 victims in a well-planned and insanely effective statement.  The next target, following closely on the first tragedy, is a beautiful socialite trapped and burned alive in her Mercedes. With some super sleuthing by a cast of fully developed CSI type characters, the case lands in the lap of Detective Terri Vincent whose long sought transfer out of homicide was backfiring and bringing her right back into a personal situation she wanted to avoid at all costs.<br /><br />Cort Gamble, Fire Marshall had his hands full with the investigation and did not need the complications of working side by side with the one woman he determined was so not his type but could not forget. As the clues unraveled showing a madman whose aim in life seemed to be removing from Cort's life any woman he'd ever loved.  In an attempt to draw a madman out Terri was assigned to play the part of Cort's lover - a part she'd played as a one night stand months ago that had left both of them with unfinished business. Would Terri's new assignment be setting them both up for a trip from the frying pan into a fire of unimaginable heat before the Torcher completed his quest?<br /><br />Wow, if you like books hot with intrigue, action, humor, searingly sultry and non-stop page turning, then you are sure to love this book!  Additionally, coupled with the suspense of such a serious plot, there was some humor injected into the makeover of a `butch' type serious detective into a sexy socialite diva!  Immediately coming to mind as I read this was Sandra Bullock and Michael Caine's battles as he did her makeover in the movie `Miss Congeniality' - this was an absolute riot!  Andre, who had the Herculean task of turning a sow's ear into a silk purse was priceless! For anyone thinking that the levity detracted in anyway from the seriousness of the plot will just have to take my word that, in my estimation, it only added another dimension to the entire story making it for me one very fabulous, hot and steamy read that I most certainly can recommend.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---ilk purse was priceless! For anyone thinking that the levity detracted in anyway from the seriousness of the plot will just have to take my word that, in my estimation, it only added another dimension to the entire story making it for me one very fabulous, hot and steamy read that I most certainly can recommend.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-10-07
497255:US	45284807	RJXOGXIZ9SV68	0425198790	98492200	Hardly a Husband (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Charming Installment in Series!	Setting - Belfordshire and London, England, 1813 --- Jarrod, sixth marquess of Shepherdston, is shocked when a young female arrives at his home at three o'clock in the morning, soaking wet from the rain, and wearing a white nightdress under her long black cloak.  The female in question, turned out to be his childhood friend, Sarah Eckersley, who came to him with a shocking proposal!  Deep in her heart, she's loved him since the age of five and her heart has never wavered in that resolve and thought that this frontal attack just might win him over. Though she knew his views on marriage, she agreed with him that he was `hardly husband material' which, even though he might have said so himself - she surprised him by agreeing!  - So, in lieu of his refusal to consider marriage, would he kindly teach her the art of seduction so she could go on to become a courtesan.  Naturally, she was hoping that this request would shock him into declaring his love for her, but he surprised her instead, not by admitting his attraction, but offering in return to help her find a suitable husband.  Though, after their first kissing lesson, Jarrod, still stubbornly refusing marriage for himself, wasn't so sure he wanted to see her married to anyone else either!<br /><br />Following the previous volumes in her charming `Free Fellows League' series of BARELY A BRIDE and MERELY A GROOM this latest entry from the author was once again, pure enjoyment. With creative and witty dialogs, revisiting the other `free fellows' who are now happily married, coupled with a secondary and very poignant `second chance at love' story for Sarah's aunt, Hagan Lee has fashioned a perfectly wonderful and entertaining read.  The protagonists were ideally suited and once Jarrod's godfather and friends helped him to deal with and better understand his nightmarish childhood memories, his courting of Sarah will bring tears to your eyes with a sensuality that is both tasteful and hot!  For those who have read the first two books, some may think that the repetition of how the league came into existence may be overkill, but I feel that it firmly establishes this author's way of creating a connected series, yet allows the book to stand totally on its own merit extremely well. She also brings in many hints as to the next book, ahem... where is Daniel, the missing Duke of Sussex?  Bottom Line: You won't be disappointed with this very charming installment of the Free Fellows League. Hagan Lee will capture both your imagination and embrace your heart with her latest regency era romance and keep you coming back for more! ---- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---first two books, some may think that the repetition of how the league came into existence may be overkill, but I feel that it firmly establishes this author's way of creating a connected series, yet allows the book to stand totally on its own merit extremely well. She also brings in many hints as to the next book, ahem... where is Daniel, the missing Duke of Sussex?   Bottom Line: You won't be disappointed with this very charming installment of the Free Fellows League. Hagan Lee will capture both your imagination and embrace your heart with her latest regency era romance and keep you coming back for more! ---- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---   <br /> <br />	2004-10-07
497274:US	45284807	R27SOBO715KUMV	0821776487	315902450	Mostly Mayhem (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	MOSTLY a 4-1/2* Read - Smooth delivery and Exciting	Setting - London, 1825 --- The widow, Tess Hardington, was coaxed by her cousin to join her at Vauxhall.  Venturing out into the public eye she never expected to see more than derision from the faces of the ton and, for the most part, she was not disappointed.  She was then surprised to see a friendly face, a most beloved face, from her past.  Charles Emerson, was the man, that she had refused to elope with rather than defy her family and leave her beloved younger sister Alicia alone with their uncle so many years ago.  As welcome a sight he was, her life was now so complicated that she dare not let anyone but her few accomplices uncover her secret life.  Elated in seeing him again, she had little choice but to brush him off -- hurting herself more than the disappointment she saw in Charles' eyes. Her path was resolute and she couldn't allow anyone the chance of deterring her from her goal. Rejoining her friends, Tess was then upset when her Uncle Howard came upon them and informed her that according to her fathers will, now that she had been widowed, and until she was 30 years old, or married, he would be back in charge of her finances.  Noticing Charles walking nearby she called him over, and rushed to meet him before he came in contact with her uncle.  Caught off guard, he reluctantly agreed to her plea to agree with whatever she said, then did his best to cover his shock when she announced to her uncle that Charles was her husband, therefore there would be no need of Uncle Howard assuming control of her wealth!<br /><br />Later, she brought Charles to her home where she gave him only the barest of facts to convince him to help her thwart her grasping uncle. Naturally, Charles, who had never forgotten the love of his life, planned to go along with her plan hoping that perhaps this might be the only chance to make a sham marriage into a reality.  Unfortunately, rather than the closeness he yearned for, Tess keeps Charles is at arms length.  When he discovered Tess making mysterious midnight excursions, he followed her into the dangerous night to uncover her secrets. Charles is determined to expose her secrets - but as much as Tess would like to trust him, it would take a murder and a startling confession for him to break thru the ice that had encapsulated her heart.<br /><br />This second installment of a trilogy, following her debut novel MOSTLY MARRIED shows again Ms. Manuel's very smooth delivery and very impressive writing style. Right from the very start, her very descriptive prose lures you into the feeling of an ominous mystery.  Her characters were well-developed and I overlooked what I felt were some minor flaws in getting me to really like or embrace the heroine, who was just a tad too distrustful of a man who seemed to prove over and over again his dedication and worthiness. Bottom line - Somewhat original and well worth your time as an excellent read from an author who is proving to have what it takes in making her mark as a force to be reckoned with in this romance genre.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---red Tess making mysterious midnight excursions, he followed her into the dangerous night to uncover her secrets. Charles is determined to expose her secrets - but as much as Tess would like to trust him, it would take a murder and a startling confession for him to break thru the ice that had encapsulated her heart. <br /> <br />This second installment of a trilogy, following her debut novel MOSTLY MARRIED shows again Ms. Manuel's very smooth delivery and very impressive writing style. Right from the very start, her very descriptive prose lures you into the feeling of an ominous mystery.  Her characters were well-developed and I overlooked what I felt were some minor flaws in getting me to really like or embrace the heroine, who was just a tad too distrustful of a man who seemed to prove over and over again his dedication and worthiness. Bottom line - Somewhat original and well worth your time as an excellent read from an author who is proving to have what it takes in making her mark as a force to be reckoned with in this romance genre.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---  <br />	2004-10-07
497407:US	45284807	R3MQM2UU226ZR7	0451210417	117999722	A Perfect Gentleman	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A Totally Charming Regency - Superbly Zany Characters 4-1/2*	Brought up as a gentleman, with no marketable skills - not that a `gentleman' would actually `work' for a living - left the Viscount Aubrey \\"Stony\\" Wellstone just about at the end of his rope.  He was a confirmed bachelor, with too much honor to do as other impoverished peers would do and set out to marry an heiress with a healthy dowry to bail him out of debt.  As luck would have it, with his good looks, immeasurable charm, and spotless character with the ton, it occurred to one beleaguered gentleman to write off one of his IOU's if Stony would provide escort and attention to said gentleman's daughter to one of the many tedious balls and social functions that fathers with marriageable age daughters were duty bound to attend.  Before he knew it, Stony's services as an eligible and willing escort was born and little by little his debts were being paid.<br /><br />So busy with such a full schedule Stony had enlisted the help of two friends, one of which, purely by accident, ended up compromising the young woman. From the hullabaloo that followed, the `ton' discovered that Stony was being `paid' for these services and suddenly found himself shunned by the people who once sought him out. It was about this time the very independent Ellianne Kane was to enter his life.  An heiress in her own right she was not looking for a husband, but needed Stony's knowledge of proper society to discover who might have last seen her sister who had gone missing.  Ellianne initially didn't want to hire the handsome Viscount, having no use for the idle life of a gentleman and fearing that they were only attracted to her money. Stony, who had always thought himself immune to the lovely misses he squired about town, soon found himself immensely attracted to the very unique and independent would be spinster and would indeed have his work cut out in proving to her that there was more to life than money.<br /><br />This book was so totally charming.  Stony was not only a perfect gentleman, but a perfectly wonderful hero. The secondary characters of Ellianne's eccentric household with her Aunt Lally, her butler Timms, and Ajax, the toothless bulldog as she tried to keep Stony ignorant of the origin of the `bawdy' comments that emanated from behind closed doors was an absolute hoot!  The entire book was a total enjoyment with so many humorous situations and a touching love story that I truly wanted to give it a perfect rating but the thought the lame excuse for the missing sister was too fast a wrap up and not quite believable.  Bottom line - I truly did love this book with the snappy prose and wonderfully funny characters, including the hero and heroine. So my little nit-picking aside - read this book and you won't be sorry in the least! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---but a perfectly wonderful hero. The secondary characters of Ellianne's eccentric household with her Aunt Lally, her butler Timms, and Ajax, the toothless bulldog as she tried to keep Stony ignorant of the origin of the `bawdy' comments that emanated from behind closed doors was an absolute hoot!  The entire book was a total enjoyment with so many humorous situations and a touching love story that I truly wanted to give it a perfect rating but the thought the lame excuse for the missing sister was too fast a wrap up and not quite believable.  Bottom line - I truly did love this book with the snappy prose and wonderfully funny characters, including the hero and heroine. So my little nit-picking aside - read this book and you won't be sorry in the least! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---  <br />	2004-10-07
500409:US	45284807	R1HZJXT373HIFG	0821776002	564349686	To Love An Earl (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	NOT her BEST effort	First of all, I am a HUGE fan of this author's meticulous attention to detail in ALL of her enormously entertaining and sensually packed historical romances and it truly does break my heart to say this was a big disappointment in my expectation of a fabulous read. The title would have been more appropriate as perhaps, TO DRIVE AN EARL CRAZY!<br /><br />For a synopsis of the plot, you have this very handsome and wealthy roguish Gareth Cavanaugh, Earl of Rathbourne who has according to his rank and privileged life cut a swath on two continents sowing his wild oats.  Miss Deirdre Fenton during her first season, spies him and they are both attracted but she has taken a particular dislike to his `type' in whom her only knowledge of him was through the gossip of exaggerated stories of his conquests, etc. After she soundly trounces him in a hand of picquet he takes greater notice of her and is impressed with her obvious intelligence and beauty.  He pursues, she's attracted but resists, and resists, and resists, and he's persistent to the extreme!<br /><br />This was a long and detailed book 476 pages reissued with a name change ( originally THE PASSIONATE PRUDE), and though the action, the writing, and the detailed character studies which fully exposed Deirdre's motivations were exceptional, I just could not come to have any feelings for this heroine, other than wanting to slap her for being such a cold and heartless _itch!  Her beloved stepfather, left her mother and two small children when Dee was 8 years old, and as a result, she grew up hating that `type' of man who emulated her stepfather. Deirdre ran hot and cold, but mostly cold and Gareth, not perfect as he did take advantage the moment she gave into her passion would have been better served to look elsewhere!  As a couple, this really was a mismatch.<br /><br />The settings of England, Brussels and France during the conflicts (circa 1814-1815) after Napoleon escaped from Elba including the battles of Waterloo added interest and dimension to this otherwise totally frustrating romance. Bottom Line - The writing, historical aspects and superb character development were remarkable lending interest and dimension to an otherwise totally wearisome romance. -  Not a keeperWaterloo added interest and dimension to this otherwise totally frustrating romance. Bottom Line - The writing, historical aspects and superb character development were remarkable lending interest and dimension to an otherwise totally wearisome romance. -  Not a keeper    <br />	2004-10-05
506688:US	45284807	RN0JOYCHEYTUH	0060513659	87860638	Yours Until Dawn (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another Winner for Medeiros!	Gabriel, Earl of Fairchild with a countenance so handsome that his family thought he'd been kissed by the angels had never lacked for female companionship. When he finally fell in love with a female immune to his charms, he wanted to prove he could make something more of himself than just the illustrious station he'd been born to. Sailing off to war in his majesty's Royal Navy he has now returned home, scarred and blind - a bitter man knowing that his beloved Cecily had run in fright from his bedside. After months of self imposed exile his father hires and send to the country estate a nurse, Samantha Wickersham.  It was her job to nurse him back from a self imposed exile and to help him to adjust to his blindness.  What Samantha found was a man whose actions spoke more of a beast than a sane man. As she worked to help him find his place in his new world, she found that the place she most wanted to be was with him - always.<br /><br />Starting out with a very serious theme the author uses her exceptional talent to bring forth both an inspirational and touching tale of love sprinkled with her trademark touches of humor that will have you laughing out loud.  Samantha was a very strong-willed heroine with a mission.  Gabriel, the once golden boy of the ton, not only had to learn to live in a world of darkness but deal with the betrayal of the woman he'd been so foolishly trying to impress. With memorable secondary characters, including a lovable and mischievous pup the reader is in for another of Medeiros' witty and entertaining novels sure to delight all of her discerning fans. This was truly a real sweetheart of a memorable read I highly recommend.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---	2004-09-29
506746:US	45284807	RELWXFDUZALGF	0821777661	14631933	A Man In A Kilt (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Fun Read - Loved IT!!!	Elizabeth `Beth' Pudding - plain as pudding - was just an ordinary working girl until the day a Scottish solicitor arrived at her doorstep telling her that she was the very last descendant of Clan MacDougall and as such was inheriting a castle in Scotland with the only caveat being she had to live in it for six months.  What the solicitor didn't tell her until after she arrived was that there was a resident ghost - this she would find out on her own.  Rather than being afraid when she began to see him, she being on her own most of her life, thought he just might make for good company.<br /><br />Duncan Angus MacDougall, had spent the last 600 years trapped in Blackstone Castle, having been cursed by the mother of his last wife. At first he was surprised she could see him, then he realized that she just might be the `one' he'd been waiting for to set him free. Watching for her on the parapets as she attempted to motor over during a storm he watched the boat engulfed by a wave. Realizing that IF she was the `one' he couldn't let her die, he materialized, saved her, then did something else (I can't tell you everything!) so that when she awoke she was being dragged out of a medieval carriage by Duncan MacDougall, in the flesh, AND obviously in another time!  Now, she knows who she is and where she's from but, Duncan doesn't know her other than that he has come to rescue a woman he'd been ordered to wed as his fourth wife!  Plain she may be, but for the love of this highland hunk, she just might be convinced to stay, even if she does finally figure out the way back.<br /><br />I so totally enjoyed the ghost storyline - reminding me of a Draycott Abbey novel-  in the beginning then was totally blown away when it became a time travel. Beth was such a darling - not your usual fabulously beautiful woman but one who worked on making the best of what the Lord had given her in the way of looks, and Duncan, well he was just a fabulously sexy and gorgeous Highlander that you just gotta love! The author grabs you right from the beginning weaving a tale that was packed with imagination and originality.  I simply love the way time travel authors find these original and fun ways of whipping back and forth through time - oh, could I wish! Time travel aside the romance is absolutely enchanting, the writing sharp, fresh and action packed. This is most definitely a debut novel and author that one should keep their eye on! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---you just gotta love! The author grabs you right from the beginning weaving a tale that was packed with imagination and originality.  I simply love the way time travel authors find these original and fun ways of whipping back and forth through time - oh, could I wish! Time travel aside the romance is absolutely enchanting, the writing sharp, fresh and action packed. This is most definitely a debut novel and author that one should keep their eye on! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---	2004-09-29
509267:US	45284807	RFQZXRPV6AOCD	0451212703	867138487	A Passionate Endeavor (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	This is a Sweetheart of a Read!	Setting - Wiltshire, England 1814 --- Hanging on for all he was worth, Nicholas Huntington traveled home to see his ailing father, praying that he only stay conscious from the injuries he'd received in the war long enough to get there.  Prayers answered, arriving home, he then promptly blacked out.  The next thing he saw, and felt, were gentle hands exploring his body that were attached to what appeared to be a very young girl with huge gray eyes.<br /><br />Plain Charlotte Kittridge, because of her tiny form appeared much younger, but at seven and twenty resolved herself to be firmly on the shelf, until this very handsome soldier, son of the ailing duke, stirred up feelings she'd long thought were dead and buried.  Being the daughter of the most talented and esteemed physician in Europe, she had dedicated herself to being his nurse and helpmate, but now, with her sensually reawakened, she couldn't help dreaming of a different life that included Nicolas. Later discovering that Nicolas had made a vow to never marry, she savored the one kiss he'd given her when he came out of a delirious fever. When he confessed a shameful secret to her, she insinuated herself into his life determined to help him overcome his greatest shame. Later when he proposed a marriage in name only, with the stipulation of a one night consummation to make it legal, she realized that while she really only wanted Nicolas' love, she'd agree to anything for the one chance to love him for real, and maybe, just maybe, he might want more.<br /><br />In this very lovely romance, this newer author reveals some superb characterizations of people dealing with serious (dyslexia) issues as well as gently inserting some very nice sensuality that is generally not found in the traditional short regency novel. The numerous secondary characters were delightful and I particularly enjoyed the two older (80ish) dowagers vying for the cleric's attention!  Not only was I impressed with her debut A SECRET PASSION but also have truly enjoyed this entry showing an author who does her research as well as coming up with an original storyline.  Bottom Line - This is a warm, romantically sensual sweetheart of a read - I loved it! ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---but also have truly enjoyed this entry showing an author who does her research as well as coming up with an original storyline.  Bottom Line - This is a warm, romantically sensual sweetheart of a read - I loved it! ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2004-09-26
512197:US	45284807	R1ZTG2Z7CG6R4I	0451211367	514998682	A Secret Passion (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Fabulous New Author	Setting - England, 1816 ---  Mrs. Jane Lovering is a widow, not quite out of mourning when her father, unbeknownst to her arranged a betrothal to  a tonnish fop, even going so far as to placing notice in the papers. Furious and refusing to be `sold' once again to bail her father out of debt - Jane is told to comply or leave taking nothing than the clothes on her back.  She `borrows' her mare, and flees to Littlefield and her spinster aunt, Clarissa Fairchild.<br /><br />Shortly after arriving in Littlefield, Jane chances upon a rider on a runaway stallion and assumes the rider to be a stable hand.  Rolfe Fitzhugh St. James, Earl of Graystock, short-tempered and belligerent, didn't identify himself blaming her for trespassing thereby causing his mount to bolt.  Upset, that a mere stable hand would rant at her, Jane further infuriates him by suggesting that she could train the temperamental stallion.  He taunted  her with an  `I dare you' proposition to come back the next day to see if she could do better riding the stallion. An accomplished horsewoman, Jane takes on the dare. The price for losing was a kiss, a kiss that surprised them both - but just don't think `happily ever after' - forget about it!  Jane's `secret passion' turned into a `secret' even she wasn't aware of until it was almost too late!<br /><br />This debut had more twists and turns than you can shake a stick at with two extremely stubborn protagonists! Jane, forced to marry a man much older than herself, thought after his death she was finally free until her father tried to marry her off again to a ridiculous fop with more money than brains. She escaped by running off and being disowned in the process.  With few options available she wrote to Harry, her childhood friend asking that he save her from her fathers scheming by marrying her.  Before leaving to meet up with Harry, she was again thrown together with the infuriating Earl of Graystock, and does her best to fight the powerful physical attraction she felt towards him. When they both give into passion and he discovers her secret he then, without speaking to her, did the worst possible thing by traveling to London and arranging another betrothal behind her back with her only too eager father.  In the meantime she and happy go lucky Harry, are busily planning an elopement.  On top of all that, there is another romance taking place as her spinster aunt rediscovers, the Earl's houseguest is none other than the one suitor she'd allow her brother to chase off years ago and has now re-entered her life.  Wow!  Ms. Nash's fresh and effervescent voice shows great promise proving she's got what it takes. Frankly, I loved this story with all the twists and turns, and the very sensual `foreplay' between the protagonists.  This was a really great read that I can highly recommend.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---traction she felt towards him. When they both give into passion and he discovers her secret he then, without speaking to her, did the worst possible thing by traveling to London and arranging another betrothal behind her back with her only too eager father.  In the meantime she and happy go lucky Harry, are busily planning an elopement.  On top of all that, there is another romance taking place as her spinster aunt rediscovers, the Earl's houseguest is none other than the one suitor she'd allow her brother to chase off years ago and has now re-entered her life.  Wow!  Ms. Nash's fresh and effervescent voice shows great promise proving she's got what it takes. Frankly, I loved this story with all the twists and turns, and the very sensual `foreplay' between the protagonists.  This was a really great read that I can highly recommend.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-09-23
512905:US	45284807	R3NUQH743HUYQ	0821777548	556267220	Somebody Wonderful (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding Debut!	Setting - New York City, 1882 --- Timona Calverson was something of a legend what with all the adventures of traveling over the world on famous archeological digs with her father Sir Kenneth.  She tries to stay out of the limelight, a difficult enough thing to do with all the amazing adventures that have been written about her. Though wealthy and related to British aristocracy she'd rather shun that particular society. Strolling through New York City, enjoying the light reflected off the buildings, she is abducted and brought to a bordello where luckily she befriends a young girl who helps her into a disguise and escape before any permanent damage to her is done. From the frying pan, into the fire, while attempting to find her way back home she is set upon, beaten, and stabbed by a street gang.  Luckily for her, Michael McCann, a recent Irish immigrant and New York City police officer, on his way home chased off the gang and rescued the `poor lad'.<br /><br />Mick was tired, wanted nothing more than his bed but he slung `the lad' over his shoulder thinking that the shortest distance for help would be his one room flat, rather than trying to locate a doctor for some homeless waif.  Mick was something of a hero in his neighborhood, attracting strays of all kinds and doctoring some of the smaller injuries when he could. When Timona wakens, she sees not only the kindest, bluest eyes but feels an awareness for a male that she's never felt before - she likes what she sees and asks him to marry her.  Mick originally thought her a `lad', then a cheeky prostitute, and now he was simply baffled by Timona and her unusually frank and outrageous comments - marry her indeed!<br /><br />What a wonderful debut!  This was so unusual, in both period and characters with protagonists that will gently ingratiate themselves into your heart. The different adventures Timona had gotten herself into while accompanying her father all over the world made a wonderful case for her embracing Mick, the Irish immigrant for what he was -- a wonderfully warm and charming hero that she immediately wanted to spend the rest of her life with - in whose strong arms she'd finally found a home.  The numerous secondary characters were all memorable, from the ugliest dog Botty, to the youngest Tucker who was a bit of a `puker' - all-unusual to say the least!  Ms. Rothwell has a rich and fresh voice that is a most outstanding welcome addition to this historical romance genre!<br /><br />Bottom Line - Embrace this author, I predict a rising star! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---Mick, the Irish immigrant for what he was -- a wonderfully warm and charming hero that she immediately wanted to spend the rest of her life with - in whose strong arms she'd finally found a home.  The numerous secondary characters were all memorable, from the ugliest dog Botty, to the youngest Tucker who was a bit of a `puker' - all-unusual to say the least!  Ms. Rothwell has a rich and fresh voice that is a most outstanding welcome addition to this historical romance genre!  <br /> <br />Bottom Line - Embrace this author, I predict a rising star! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-09-23
516653:US	45284807	R19DGLEGFJIQVY	0060536713	410365490	Love and the Single Heiress (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Totally Charming Regency	Staring across the crowded ballroom, Andrew Stanton recalled how he initially fell in love with the image of Lady Catherine, his best friend's sister; later becoming more enthralled with each and every newsy letter he shared with him. He'd waited years for the day when he could finally begin to court her. At long last, Lady Catherine, now a widow, was out of mourning and Andrew who in the intervening yeas had become a close friend of the family, was ready to pursue the object of his desires.  He was fully aware that as a common man, his chances at wooing a lady of the nobility would be difficult, if not fruitless.  Knowing that her marriage had been disastrous and that Catherine had vowed to never re-marry, did not deter Andrew from pursing the object of his desire.  She now seemed to be a devout advocate and champion of the mysterious author Charles Brightmore, the author of the scandalously popular `Ladies' Guide' that had most men of the ton ready to commit murder should they ever discover his true identity.<br /><br />Secretly, while rusticating in the country with her son Spencer, Lady Catherine had been only too happy to assist a friend with the publication of A Ladies' Guide.  The guide had taken society by storm but not without it's detractors. Having endured the narrow mindedness and hateful comments directed at her son's affliction she'd hope to set nobility on its ear, never dreaming that her involvement would place her life in danger.  After narrowly escaping an attempt on her life she was forced to leave the city with Andrew as her able bodied protector, a task he gladly took for the golden opportunity it afforded to begin his campaign of seduction.<br /><br />This was another winner from the very talented Ms. D'Alessandro who writes lively intelligent and witty dialogs and characters that endure long after you've finished the last pages. While Andrew's wooing of Catherine was utterly romantic, and sweetly sensual, the endearingly honest loving relationship he established with 12-year-old Spencer and  help in teaching him to deal with his physical limitations was simply outstanding. D'Alessandro also gives another interesting secondary character in Catherine's friend Genevieve, who as the true author of the `guide' would make a terrific sequel with a story of her own. Bottom Line - While this seemed to have a bit more serious tone than her customary belly laugh humorous romances, her dialogs and finely drawn characterizations along with an inspiring romance and seduction is totally charming and heart warming... definitely recommended! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---lationship he established with 12-year-old Spencer and  help in teaching him to deal with his physical limitations was simply outstanding. D'Alessandro also gives another interesting secondary character in Catherine's friend Genevieve, who as the true author of the `guide' would make a terrific sequel with a story of her own. Bottom Line - While this seemed to have a bit more serious tone than her customary belly laugh humorous romances, her dialogs and finely drawn characterizations along with an inspiring romance and seduction is totally charming and heart warming... definitely recommended! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br /> <br />	2004-09-19
517661:US	45284807	R14TKWFCFN9E4T	0060006617	908183003	A Perfect Bride (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Positively and Perfectly Charming Romance	Setting - London 1815 --- Devon St. James, lived in St. Giles working in an ale house for meager earnings.  She had survived the dangerous streets by playing it smart and taking precautions by disguising herself as a heavily pregnant woman when walking home in the dark.  This particular evening she carried not only her desperately needed wages but her most precious possession, her mothers necklace. She was set upon by thugs and fought like a wild cat to get back her necklace by defending herself then being stabbed and left to die in the gutter. When she opened her eyes, it was to see herself being rescued by the biggest, handsomest man she'd ever seen and thought she'd died and gone to heaven.<br /><br />Sebastian Sterling, Marquess of Thurston had grown up serious, letting duty chart his life.  Since the age of 10 he'd assumed the responsibility of taking care of his two younger siblings and did his best to shield them from their father's cold and unrelenting displeasure.  That night searching for his younger wild brother Justin, he was directed to a gaming hell in the dangerous part of London known as St. Giles. He was on his way there when he came upon a body lying in the street.  Upon closer examination, he found the bundle to be a female, alive but severely wounded and rather than try to find a doctor in the wee hours of the morning, he brought her home to his town house.  In the light and removing her filthy clothing, he discovered a young woman who nearly took his breath away.  Perhaps it was kismet, or the fates laughing at him that he chanced upon this street urchin, particularly when he had all but announced his intention of finding a `perfect bride'.<br /><br />This was the first time I've read this author's work and I can tell you that I will be looking forward to researching her back booklists and pre-ordering the proposed sequels to this `Perfect' new trilogy.  This was a `perfect' read of an absolutely divine romance filled with wit, charm and beautifully drawn and endearing characters. Several times I found myself chuckling out loud by the lively interplay between the very proper Sebastian and street wise and irascible Devon, as he became entirely captivated by her forthright manner. Bottom Line - You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll sigh over this perfectly wonderful regency era love story!  -- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---utifully drawn and endearing characters. Several times I found myself chuckling out loud by the lively interplay between the very proper Sebastian and street wise and irascible Devon, as he became entirely captivated by her forthright manner. Bottom Line - You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll sigh over this perfectly wonderful regency era love story!  -- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---  <br />	2004-09-18
522184:US	45284807	R1EO2GPILU21T1	006009298X	418464853	Temptation of a Proper Governess	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thoroughly Lovely Regency Romance	Setting - England 1804 --- When governess Isabel Halloran found that her 17-year-old wayward, promiscuous charge was missing from her bed, she roused the nanny to help her locate the chit before she did something foolish and have the staff blamed for her mischief.  Finding her charge lying naked in one of the wealthy visiting gentlemen's bedroom, she and nanny hauled her off and locked her in her bedroom. When the willful teenager taunted Isabel that she purposely left her bracelet in the bed in order to effect a forced marriage, Isabel rushed back to the room to retrieve it, only to be caught herself.<br />Unknowingly, Michael Severson came back to his room and found an intoxicatingly lovely woman who he was immediately attracted to.  He began to seduce her and Isabel who was mesmerized by him was a willing participant until his host, and her employer, came along with witnesses to barge into his room, expecting to see his daughter being compromised and not the governess.<br /><br />Initially refusing but then through a series of events and good intentioned friends, Isabel is finally persuaded by Michael to marry him - innocently putting a great deal of trust in a man who she'd only just met. Unfortunately, Michael had ulterior motives in his proposal once he'd discovered that she was the bastard child of Lord Elswick, a man who ten years earlier had attempted to have him convicted for murder. A deed Michael believed Elswick's son Henry had committed and Michael was determined to prove.  However, Michael soon falls in love with Isabel about the same time she discovers the real reason he married her, but too late - for although Isabel had lost her heart to him, she had also lost her trust.<br /><br />Once again, Cathy Maxwell, the mistress of unforgettable and sweet romances, hits a homerun with her latest novel having all the elements I've come to expect from her - vision, integrity, fabulous characterizations and all kinds of heart. She writes with intelligence and enormous feeling as these two wonderful protagonists come to terms with each other taking a leap of faith to accept the gift of a once in a lifetime love. The mystery of the murder was deftly handled and neatly tied up at the end.  Additionally, she teases the reader with unforgettable characters that one can only hope to see revealed in greater detail in future sequels to this grand beginning.  Bottom Line - This goes on my keeper shelf with spaces next to it for the sequels I pray come as soon as possible. --- Marilyn Rondeau (...)---as these two wonderful protagonists come to terms with each other taking a leap of faith to accept the gift of a once in a lifetime love. The mystery of the murder was deftly handled and neatly tied up at the end.  Additionally, she teases the reader with unforgettable characters that one can only hope to see revealed in greater detail in future sequels to this grand beginning.  Bottom Line - This goes on my keeper shelf with spaces next to it for the sequels I pray come as soon as possible. --- Marilyn Rondeau (...)---	2004-09-14
523429:US	45284807	R259ZSIS36GXMN	0060531231	291945801	When He Was Wicked (Bridgertons)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good but not Great	Michael Stirling never begrudged his best friend and favorite cousin John, his earldom or wealth, in fact was quite content without the responsibilities or the title. John and Michael were the best of friends and would each have laid down their lives for one another and then John introduced Michael to his fianc&eacute;, Francesca Bridgerton, 36 hours before the nuptials and Michael fell irrevocably in love for the first time in his life. Thoroughly uneasy at coveting John's wife, Michael became a master at hiding and disguising his true feelings for Francesca even as the threesome became something of a unit. Two years into the marriage, John suddenly died leaving both Francesca and Michael totally devastated. But for Michael, the grief was pure torture, as he somehow got it into his mind that because of coveting his cousins wife during John's life time it was almost as if he had wished him gone so that he could pursue Francesca. Michael, could not comfort Francesca - his guilt over loving her during John's lifetime was so great he left England traveling to India.  Francesca, could not believe that her best friend and confidante had left her when she needed his strength more than ever to share her grief, but it would be six years later before he returned home.<br /><br />I have been a huge fan of Julia Quinn for years, but have to admit she didn't keep me up all night reading this one.  For those fans that are looking for her trademark witty dialogs, and laugh out loud antics found in her previous books you should probably pass on this one.  This is not to say her writing and character development are lacking but it is a much slower pace than any of her previous books.  It is much more emotional for the first three quarters of the book which is pretty much weighed down with grief  and guilt.  When these two protagonists do finally get together though the passion, is very hot, but again it seems a one-sided love for Michael, and sad to say, Francesca while responding physically and quite passionately (six years celibacy will do that) couldn't resolve WHAT she was feeling other than lust?  Michael certainly turned out the hero in this book, if for no other reason than for his infinite patience!  Bottom Line - While still a good enough novel that loyal fans (like myself) are going to buy, it is not her best - just don't expect to laugh yourself silly.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...]ically and quite passionately (six years celibacy will do that) couldn't resolve WHAT she was feeling other than lust?  Michael certainly turned out the hero in this book, if for no other reason than for his infinite patience!   Bottom Line - While still a good enough novel that loyal fans (like myself) are going to buy, it is not her best - just don't expect to laugh yourself silly.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...]  <br />	2004-09-13
530229:US	45284807	RX2MKLBG9T1IU	0425198014	777315273	Beloved Impostor (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Awesome !st Book In New Trilogy	Setting - Scotland, 1511 ---  Felicia Campbell could not believe the letter she held in her hands. Her guardian uncle had arranged, by order of the king, her marriage to wed a brutal man three times her age, whose last wife had died under mysterious circumstances. She knew she wasn't pretty, and didn't expect much in the way of matrimony but this was beyond the pale. With the help of her beautiful friend, Janet Cameron, betrothed to her beloved cousin Jamie, they devised a plan to help her escape before being escorted to her doom.  The escape from her escort went well, that is, until a neighboring clan that mistook her for the beautiful Lady Janet abducted her. Worse still was the fact that her abductors were from Clan Maclean - a clan that was a bitter enemy of Clan Campbell.<br /><br />Rory Maclean, after an absence of ten years sailing the seas had come home at the summons of the clan. His father dead, his older brother missing, he had hopes of making peace and putting a stop to the bloodshed then return to his beloved sea.  With good intentions, the elder clan members felt that if they could find him a comely bride to produce an heir, they just might convince him to remain at home and provide the leadership they sorely needed.  A curse had been thrown down years before when the laird of the MacLeans had tried murdering his infertile Campbell wife - the curse prophesized that no bride of the Macleans would ever live long or happily.  After losing two wives, Rory had sworn that he would never marry again.<br /><br /> His reaction to the woman his clan mistakenly brought home to him was that he would take her back to the Camerons immediately but he hadn't figured on her igniting the passions he'd thought to have buried long ago.  Felicia, realizing she was on borrowed time before her real identity would be discovered, was ready to grasp whatever happiness she could, from the divinely attractive and Laird.  Before being sacrificed for her people she would fulfill her passionate dreams with the man who made her heart sing.<br /><br />This was a very well paced story of mistaken identity with a nice amount of historical court intrigue thrown in at the end to cap off  this  delicious period romance.  Rory was a truly great hero who truly didn't want the leadership of the clan but a good  and honorable man who shouldered the responsibilities thrust upon him.  While Felicia was not penned as a beauty, Rory recognized the inner beauty of Felicia thru her strengths and beautiful heart.  With beautiful and intelligent dialogs, Potter has crafted an exciting adventure, rich in historical background and with a sensual laden story line.  Bottom Line - I plan to look for and will anxiously await the next volumes of the rest of this planned trilogy.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---ill her passionate dreams with the man who made her heart sing. <br /> <br />This was a very well paced story of mistaken identity with a nice amount of historical court intrigue thrown in at the end to cap off  this  delicious period romance.  Rory was a truly great hero who truly didn't want the leadership of the clan but a good  and honorable man who shouldered the responsibilities thrust upon him.  While Felicia was not penned as a beauty, Rory recognized the inner beauty of Felicia thru her strengths and beautiful heart.  With beautiful and intelligent dialogs, Potter has crafted an exciting adventure, rich in historical background and with a sensual laden story line.  Bottom Line - I plan to look for and will anxiously await the next volumes of the rest of this planned trilogy.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] --- <br />	2004-09-07
530250:US	45284807	R1XJETK4DQ99QM	0425198022	862086885	A Hint of Seduction (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Actually 3-1/2* - Not exciting But Pleasant	Everyone thinks Catherine Reynolds has come to London to make a match, but she's actually trying to find out which of three men mentioned in her deceased mother's journal is really her father. After three months of fittings for gowns in anticipation of the season, and no progress made in locating the three men who might be her father, Catherine needed to get out and ride to feel the wind in her face.  When her groom's horse stumbled in a hole incapacitating him they decided that her sister and guardian, Victoria, would stay with the groom while Catherine would ride back to fetch a carriage. This would have worked out well if Catherine hadn't taken a spill when she ran into another rider. It was love at first sight for the stranger who was there to rescue her but as her later inquiries progressed, she discovered that there was a real possibility that he might just be her half brother!<br /><br />John Wickenham-Thickenham-Fines, the Fifth Earl of Chatwin, was one of the more sought after bachelor nobles who had escaped being leg-shackled by the best of the matchmaking ton.  He found himself clearly intrigued by the beguiling and cheeky miss that he'd almost run down. Her horse having run off, he endeavored to help her back to the stable to retrieve her carriage, but Catherine not wanting to take the chance of being seen before dawn in a gentleman's company had other ideas and ended up stealing his horse and leaving him stranded in the park. Catherine didn't know at the time that he'd been competing in a horse race and had all but forfeited the win to stop and help her. Furious, yet intrigued with the audacious chit who seemed immune to his charms, Chatwin was certain he would find her again along with his prize horse and regain his dignity if it were the last thing he'd do!<br /><br />This was a pleasant read that had me thinking of another recent novel that uses the vehicle of a `gossip columnist' to fuel the protagonists actions. The search to locate Catherine's biological father in an effort to discover why he never married her mother, was interesting when it led to the door of the man who she fancied herself in love with, but then it seemed to fizzle out with no real joy or excitement generated over the ultimate discovery. The romance was sweet, if not earth shattering exciting, and the secondary characterizations, particularly Andrew (who I predict is soon to have his own story) and the lovely Lady Lynette who had a facial disfigurement, were interesting and well done along with the character of her older sister Victoria who would like a career as a ton matchmaker.  While not an overly exciting read, it was somewhat predictable with a lovely romance that saved it with some very nice spicy scenes and cute dialogs. ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ----s biological father in an effort to discover why he never married her mother, was interesting when it led to the door of the man who she fancied herself in love with, but then it seemed to fizzle out with no real joy or excitement generated over the ultimate discovery. The romance was sweet, if not earth shattering exciting, and the secondary characterizations, particularly Andrew (who I predict is soon to have his own story) and the lovely Lady Lynette who had a facial disfigurement, were interesting and well done along with the character of her older sister Victoria who would like a career as a ton matchmaker.  While not an overly exciting read, it was somewhat predictable with a lovely romance that saved it with some very nice spicy scenes and cute dialogs. ---- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ----     <br />	2004-09-07
534684:US	45284807	R2KVHEI0FTHO8M	0843951443	864886797	The Trouble With Harry	Books	5	84	86	N	Y	MacAlister is Totally Delightful	Harry, the Marquis Rosse is a 45 year old widower with five precocious and lively children who are rapidly driving him insane. When his 13 year old daughter, Lady India, comes to him demanding an explanation on the reasons behind her bleeding, he knows he is in way over his head and must make the ultimate sacrifice -- find himself a woman to be both wife and mother to his brood of hellions.  Having his fill of society females, he placed an ad in the \\"Rams Bottom Gazette\\" so that no one would really know that he was a marquis.  This way, he would sort out the women looking for rich man and find a woman who liked children (not that he wanted any more) but would also be a bedmate for Harry.<br /><br />Twenty years ago, Frederica Pelham (Plum) had been married for 6 weeks to a man who neglected to tell her he already had a wife.  Upon discovering his deception, his family sent him to the continent, Plum's family disowned her over the `scandal' she caused!  Plum's life was ruined, she was disowned with barely enough to live on.  With few options left to her, and more than enough unsavory offers of protection, she retired to the country where she penned the highly popular but controversial \\"Guide to Connubial Calisthenics\\" under the pen name of Vyvyan La Bleu.  The book was so controversial (yet ordered by most of the ton) that it was even banned by the government.  Really needing some security, not only for herself but for her orphaned niece, and wanting a child of her own, Plum rationaled that she was not really lying about her past,  but just an omitting some of the truths.<br /><br />This was a hilariously funny tale of two middle-aged people who take their bedsport to a new level. Harry's accident-prone children are a trip whose non-stop antics enliven and grace the pages with joy and laughter!  Along with a superb secondary cast of unforgettable characters from the entertaining and irreverent Spanish butler Juan, to Harry's rapscallion brood of hellions - India, Digger, McTavis and twins Andrew and Anne -- who do their best to drive Plum crazy the reader should find themselves howling on the floor with straight from the gut belly laughs.  Bottom Line - For outrageous fun in a can't put it down rapid page-turner delight from start to finish - look no further than this gem by Katie Macalister! (...)twins Andrew and Anne -- who do their best to drive Plum crazy the reader should find themselves howling on the floor with straight from the gut belly laughs.  Bottom Line - For outrageous fun in a can't put it down rapid page-turner delight from start to finish - look no further than this gem by Katie Macalister! (...)	2004-09-02
534973:US	45284807	R3UFSBIXLAFPB8	0451208595	606864129	Wedded Bliss	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	Madcap, Zany Romance	Robert, the Earl of Rockfort is a tried and true diplomat who takes his duties to the crown seriously, but appallingly neglects his two sons.  Married and widowed twice, each wife had presented him with a son before expiring - sons that he was not quite certain were his. After being notified by the butler at Rock Hill that his spinster sister had run off with the bailiff who had both misappropriated funds from the estate as well as taken his precious Rembrandt, he hastened home only to discover that a widowed neighbor had also kidnapped his youngest son William. Arriving at the widow Hennings cottage and thinking the smallest young lad who appeared the right age was his (he hadn't seen the child for two years and after all) he started for the door only to be stopped in his tracks by our heroine holding a gun aimed at his back and demanding that he unhand `her son'!  Later discovering that Alissa Henning was not the criminal he was led to believe, but a wonderful mother who his son had grown very attached to, he began to see the possibilities that a marriage of convenience would bring.<br /><br /> Initially Alissa swore she would never marry the pompous earl, until her landlord, the very vile Sir George decided to raise her rent; propose that she marry him and produce his heir, whilst he puts her two sons to work on his estate, plus marry off her dear sister to the first taker!  Facing the alternatives of Sir George, or starvation, she decides to accept the Earl, who wants to marry immediately.  Alissa complies with his dictates then is infuriated when the pompous ass leaves her right after the wedding to return to London to resume his bachelor life!  Seeing her abandoned by her husband, Sir George thinks her fair game and accosts Alissa once again.  Furious, Alissa has had enough of a convenient marriage and packs up bag and baggage, four children, four puppies, and his errant spinster sister and descends upon her husband's town house demanding her connubial rights! Now that the stage has been set - let the fun begin!<br /><br />Though our hero was quite reluctant in the beginning, he is soon brought to heel both as a father and an adoring husband in a most delightful way. Alissa is  a charming and an extremely brave heroine who had the moral fiber and strength to pull this entire madcap family and retainers together. Along with a secondary romance between Robert's sister and the duke who'd jilted her 20 years before, a madcap eccentric aunt, and the very exuberant youngest son, Billy, the reader is in for a delightful treat and will find themselves chuckling throughout.  Metzger has totally won me over with her humor, witty dialogs and vastly entertaining cast of zany characters.  Bottom line - For a truly entertaining sweetheart of a madcap romantic tale,  Metzger is certain to deliver! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---s! Now that the stage has been set - let the fun begin!   <br /> <br />Though our hero was quite reluctant in the beginning, he is soon brought to heel both as a father and an adoring husband in a most delightful way. Alissa is  a charming and an extremely brave heroine who had the moral fiber and strength to pull this entire madcap family and retainers together. Along with a secondary romance between Robert's sister and the duke who'd jilted her 20 years before, a madcap eccentric aunt, and the very exuberant youngest son, Billy, the reader is in for a delightful treat and will find themselves chuckling throughout.   Metzger has totally won me over with her humor, witty dialogs and vastly entertaining cast of zany characters.  Bottom line - For a truly entertaining sweetheart of a madcap romantic tale,  Metzger is certain to deliver! --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---  <br />	2004-09-02
535506:US	45284807	R325CHCBKSD6EB	0060514124	437627633	A Scandal to Remember	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Dashing Hero - Perfectly Romantic - 4-1/2*	Setting - Victorian England 1851 --- In the second installment of Needham's Gentlemen Rogue series, the very sexy master spy, Andrew Chase, Earl of Wexford has uncovered an assassination plot against the exiled Princess Caroline Marguerite Marie Isabella of Boratania. Because he was the one to uncover the plot, his superiors decided that he would be the one assigned to protect her and Drew wanted no part of being a bodyguard to any more spoiled and cosseted royals. What he hadn't expected was for the Princess to be one of the most amazingly beautiful women he'd ever seen and that finding the assassins just might be easier than trying to protect the very stubborn Princess who had a mind and a mission of her own.<br /><br />This was a totally delightful romance from beginning to end.  The author immediately engages your imagination with the plausible plot of an exiled royal orphan who was brought up with the dream of one day returning and restoring the looted treasures of her miniscule kingdom back to their rightful place. The fact that the Princess was so adept at regaining Boratanias treasures through whatever means possible made for some very amusing situations.<br /><br />Having recently finished research on Prince Albert and Queen Victorias Great Exhibition of 1851, I totally enjoyed the references to, and prominence it played in this plot.  The romance was totally palatable and poignant as both Drew and Caro, so attracted to  each other, realized that she had a destiny to fulfill and that their time together would be so short.  The many references to Drew's `partners in crime' Ross and Jared, already have me looking for the first and looking forward to the third books in this very well written and exciting Victorian historical romance.  Bottom line - With a believable plot, crisp writing, wonderfully developed characters and of course, a perfectly dashing and brave hero, what more could a romance lover want? --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...]  ---ewriters.com  --- <br />	2004-09-01
536587:US	45284807	R3I17H9MLVB6AA	0373293194	291670458	The Proposition	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Exciting Canadian Adventure and Romance - 4-1/2*	Setting - Alberta, 1892 --- Sergeant Major, Travis Reid was unaware of the intense scrutiny that Jessica Haven had been giving him for the last few days, but even if he had he wouldn't give her the time of day.  In his mind, the mayor's daughter was the same, self-centered, shallow young girl he'd grown up with and all the polish from her fancy `charm school' she'd gone to back east for would do little in `charming' him.  Travis was a very angry young man, still grieving over the death of his beloved wife Caroline, who along with him had never gotten along with Jessica.<br /><br />Jessica Haven, has a secret and she had changed in more ways than one, ways that she couldn't yet reveal. She desperately needed Travis to escort her across the country in an effort to try and locate what she described to him as doctor she wanted to interview for an article in the medical journal.  The doctor in question had been a star witness in helping Travis convict a felon in a big case he'd just solved, so Jessica's claims that the doctor was not who or what he appeared but a greedy and unscrupulous individual was falling on deaf ears. Travis was adamant in wanting nothing to do with her and Jessica hating to do so, pulled strings and went over his head to his commanding officer to change his mind.  To Travis, this was just one more instance that proved to him that Jessica still used her family's influence to get what she wanted.  But to Jessica, nothing mattered more than to get one more step closer to locating what might or might not be the child that had been stolen from her 17 months earlier.  The treacherous cross-country journey would be the catalyst that would force meaningful life-changing attitudes that would put both their lives in perspective.  Travis, so angry and unforgiving, finally began to see that Jessica had changed and she began to stir that anger into passion and caring once again.<br /><br /> Kate Bridges once again engages the reader's emotions with a deft hand in examining the personalities and pain of two very wounded individuals.  She sets a glorious setting against the backdrop of the Canadian Rockies with great dialogs and three-dimensional characters tied to an emotional story that tugs at your heartstrings of a young woman searching for the child she was told had died and a man who had to work through the pain of loss and discover love again.  The finely drawn characters and smart pace made this book a hard one to put down. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---hand in examining the personalities and pain of two very wounded individuals.  She sets a glorious setting against the backdrop of the Canadian Rockies with great dialogs and three-dimensional characters tied to an emotional story that tugs at your heartstrings of a young woman searching for the child she was told had died and a man who had to work through the pain of loss and discover love again.  The finely drawn characters and smart pace made this book a hard one to put down. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] --- <br />	2004-09-01
537760:US	45284807	R1QZ81MZTYA6VS	0373836295	730127270	Forbidden (Harlequin Single Title)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Slow start - Fast Action Ending in a compelling read	Setting - England, 716 a.d.  --- Whatever had possessed the Lady Rowena to buy a slave for 12 mancuses, she had no idea, but the deed was done.  The big muscular thrall with silvery eyes like cold flint showed no deference for her lofty station - no, they held nothing but contempt. How dare it!  Lady Rowena, could never be at the mercy of another ever again and knew she must show more courage than she possessed. Her life and the life of her daughter were at stake, and the thrall was brave - this she knew, and she would risk it's life if he could survive the dangerous mission she would put to him for the price of his freedom.<br /><br />It's name was Wulf, a thrall - no longer a man but enslaved by a betrayal so bitter his rage alone had given him the strength to survive.  Now this beautiful noblewoman had purchased him - for what - a plaything to whore upon?  Trust would be a fragile link that might be breached between the two worlds they inhabited.  Desire and revenge, betrayal and love would all come into play as human passions exploded between two people who knew better than to taste these forbidden waters.<br /><br />Having read Kirkman's exceptional debut novel (A MOMENT'S MADNESS - circa 916 a.d.)  I was anxious to read another by her as she once again tackled an even earlier historical period.  The author's writing style is different and in this she does not employ a lot of dialog so much as express `feelings' and `mood' as Rowena tries to rationalize in her mind, what and why she is attracted to the very compelling slave. Admittedly for action lovers, the first third of the book is slow but, again, this seems to be the style the author has adopted in setting the stage.  The secondary characters are all very interesting and well defined, particularly Rowena's six-year-old daughter who practically steals the show as well as your heart as she tries her best to be a `healer' of both humans and animals.  The last portion of the book definitely picks up steam with a lot of action and wraps up all the loose ends that were tossed out in the beginning making this a rather satisfying read. Bottom Line - It does have a slow start, and the writing style is distinctive but, all in all, a very pleasant read for a lazy weekend. --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---with a lot of action and wraps up all the loose ends that were tossed out in the beginning making this a rather satisfying read. Bottom Line - It does have a slow start, and the writing style is distinctive but, all in all, a very pleasant read for a lazy weekend. --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---   <br />	2004-08-31
538583:US	45284807	R3D7X3IAFSL763	0451210050	455316000	Saving Lord Verwood (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Fully Satisfying and Enjoyable Regency	This is the third installment of a trilogy that highlights the trials and tribulations of three lively young women from different walks in life who became fast friends while in school. Having NOT read the prequels (THE INCORRIGIBLE LADY CATHERINE and THE REDWYCK CHARM) I can attest that this is a complete stand-alone, and because I truly enjoyed this author's writing style, I will probably look for the first two in the series.<br /><br />Miss Penelope Talcott, is in Brighton with her aunt and uncle who are doing all in their power to obtain a more advantageous match for their niece than the curate back at home whom she would have liked to wed. On one particular morning, as she rushed to get out of the way of a galloping horse, Penelope tripped over something in her path. The rider happened to be none other than Lord Verwood, the handsome rogue Penelope was not pleased to see as she knew him as an incorrigible rake who had toyed with her two very good friends. Realizing that the rope that had caused her to trip was meant to harm Verwood, and being able to sketch the culprit who had most likely set the trap, Penelope inadvertently became immersed in his life. Following this event, Verwood then saved Pen from a maddened woman who tried to drown her.  The gossip and scandal of Pen's association with such an infamous rake led to Pen's beloved curate showing his true colors and as he backed out of their `understanding', Verwood thinking to save Pen from further humiliation offered to marry her himself. With some reservations, Pen accepted Verwood's proposal and only time would tell, just who would be saving whom.<br /><br />I found our hero and heroine to be a completely engaging couple.  Rake or not, Verwood was so sweet to Penelope that it did make me smile at his captivating attempts of little kindnesses towards her as this former `bad boy' waited to find out if Pen would take him up on his offer of marriage.  Penelope's attraction, and her innocence, especially on her wedding night were both amusing and sweetly poignant.  With the slow and evenly paced romance both Verwood and Penelope were able to develop a really solid understanding of each others strengths as she witnessed the man behind the bravado, and they both fell in love.  Bottom Line - With an excellent sub-plot line of intrigue, the reader is treated to a nicely developed and engaging read with just enough spice, humor, and loving to make it a fully satisfying read.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---her wedding night were both amusing and sweetly poignant.  With the slow and evenly paced romance both Verwood and Penelope were able to develop a really solid understanding of each others strengths as she witnessed the man behind the bravado, and they both fell in love.  Bottom Line - With an excellent sub-plot line of intrigue, the reader is treated to a nicely developed and engaging read with just enough spice, humor, and loving to make it a fully satisfying read.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] ---   <br />	2004-08-30
554636:US	45284807	RDMAOK201RUW9	1410400719	399390194	Seducing Mr. Heywood	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Role Reversal In A Most Original REGENCY	Setting - Rowley Hall, Yorkshire, 1811 --- The very notorious Lady Sophia Rowley, thrice married, thrice widowed and smarting from the loss of her latest lover she had intended on making husband number four, was not in the best of moods.  On the advice of her solicitor she had come home to Rowley Hall to make the acquaintance of the vicar of St. Mortrud's, Mr. Charles Heywood, whom her late husband had appointed guardian of their two sons.  To say the least, their first meeting could in no way be termed favorable, - but I'll let the reader delight in THAT inauspicious moment.  In spite of her bad humor, and Charles' mortification it would be days before they would once more, accidentally meet and Sophia, thought to make the very handsome vicar her next lover while she rusticated in the country.<br /><br />Charles had always admired the beautiful woman from her portrait during his many visits and had it not been for the confidences shared with him by the late baron of how Sophia had been sold into a brutal and hideous first marriage by her despicable father, he might have the same unfavorable opinions of her that others had. Armed with that knowledge, and as their friendship developed he began to admire the intelligent and tenderhearted woman that was kept hidden behind the jaded and brittle mask she donned to hide her vulnerability.  There seemed to be a real chance at happiness for both of them if only they could survive the vicious manipulations that the re-emergence of her obnoxious father would bring back into her life.<br /><br />I found this to be a divine read.  I absolutely loved how Sophia the once-jaded and totally selfish heroine (from THE RELUCTANT GUARDIAN) finally came to her epiphany realizing her self worth as a caring, loving mother and found her true love in such an unlikely candidate. It was also a very original read in that the female/male roles were reversed where she was the rake, so to speak, and he the innocent.  In addition, I found the many varied characters were so very well defined that the reader could feel a part of the entire ensemble.<br /><br />Of particular note, is the way the author conveyed warm and loving feelings for the character of the deceased Baron Rowley.  Due to his unselfish regard in maintaining for his sons the illusion of a mother's love, he thoughtfully paved the way for her re-emergence into their life.  I thought that this very cleverly done to have such a warm and wonderful feeling for a character whom you never really meet in the story but who plays such a seemingly big part due to the fond remembrances and good deeds he'd done during his life.  Bottom line - With elegant prose, fresh and charming dialogs, and lovely regency touches the author had me totally enchanted from start to finish in this wonderfully feel-good romance.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...]he many varied characters were so very well defined that the reader could feel a part of the entire ensemble.   <br /> <br />Of particular note, is the way the author conveyed warm and loving feelings for the character of the deceased Baron Rowley.  Due to his unselfish regard in maintaining for his sons the illusion of a mother's love, he thoughtfully paved the way for her re-emergence into their life.   I thought that this very cleverly done to have such a warm and wonderful feeling for a character whom you never really meet in the story but who plays such a seemingly big part due to the fond remembrances and good deeds he'd done during his life.  Bottom line - With elegant prose, fresh and charming dialogs, and lovely regency touches the author had me totally enchanted from start to finish in this wonderfully feel-good romance.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, for [...] <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-16
558644:US	45284807	R16PL2CEQMTJ3A	0743470036	899097231	A Deal With the Devil	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Love this Author and Her Awesome books!	Setting - Cadrow Castle, England, 1829 ---  Carlyle's latest book in her `Devil' series features a young woman who has come to the musty rundown Castle Cadrow in answer to an advertisement for a housekeeper.  Calling herself Mrs. Aubrey Montford, she brings along forged documents along with her young son, Iain.  Major Lorimer, the cantankerous and ailing uncle of the Earl of Walrafen is ready to toss her and her son out until she reveals to him her real identity and he reluctantly allows her to stay where over time she endears herself to the Major.  Several years pass and the very  isolation of the castle gives her a feeling of safety as she busies herself in returning the castle and grounds back to a semblance of it's former glory.<br /><br />Giles, the Earl of Walrafen, whose unhappy childhood memories of Castle Cardow have kept him away from his childhood home for years has been apprised of the castles status by weekly missives, as well as scoldings he's been receiving from the seemingly irritable Mrs. Montford. He's dealt with these letters by regulating them to an almost non-existent priority in lieu of more important matters dealing with his Parlimentary work. Notified of his uncle's murder, he drops everything and travels to the castle where he is astonished when he finally meets the housekeeper.  The woman he'd once thought of as a close proximity to Atila the the Hun turned out to be quite lovely, AND she was also the prime suspect in his uncle's murder.  Their relationship starts out on the wrong foot from the very first moments, with Aubrey barely disguising her disdain for neglecting both his home and uncle, and of course he's not too pleased with a housekeeper that is treating him with such impertinence.  In spite of Aubrey's secrets, their mutual attraction simply sizzles and they embark on a surreptitious affair.  When Giles wants to make the relationship a more permanent arrangement, he's distraught when Aubrey refuses to even consider it.  Calling in some favors from friends, Giles asks them to conduct an investigation that just might destroy what gains he'd made in getting Aubrey to trust him.<br /><br />This was such an awesome and thrilling romance from an author whose writing style, I confess, I simply adore.  I totally enjoyed her two protagonists and their interaction, especially as Giles, whether he admitted it or not, had so enjoyed the letters he'd been receiving over the years from a woman who he thought of  as a `thorn in his side'.  While this is part of a `series' it certainly does stand-alone and I particularly love the way, Carlyle manages to bring back friends from all of her previous novels to pop in, here and there, to visit - one big happy family!  Kemble,  who has appeared in a couple of books that I can recall, is a remarkable secondary character that I find always adds a humorous touch to the usual drama in her stories.  Bottom Line -  This is just another of the superb stories I've come to expect when buying this authors works and I am so glad I discovered her right from the get go! All her books have found a  permanent  place on my `keeper shelf'! ---- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---ing in some favors from friends, Giles asks them to conduct an investigation that just might destroy what gains he'd made in getting Aubrey to trust him.  <br /> <br />This was such an awesome and thrilling romance from an author whose writing style, I confess, I simply adore.  I totally enjoyed her two protagonists and their interaction, especially as Giles, whether he admitted it or not, had so enjoyed the letters he'd been receiving over the years from a woman who he thought of  as a `thorn in his side'.  While this is part of a `series' it certainly does stand-alone and I particularly love the way, Carlyle manages to bring back friends from all of her previous novels to pop in, here and there, to visit - one big happy family!  Kemble,  who has appeared in a couple of books that I can recall, is a remarkable secondary character that I find always adds a humorous touch to the usual drama in her stories.  Bottom Line -  This is just another of the superb stories I've come to expect when buying this authors works and I am so glad I discovered her right from the get go! All her books have found a  permanent  place on my `keeper shelf'! ---- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] --- <br />	2004-08-12
567204:US	45284807	R2Z79WEG8VWL6E	0451210298	478974171	In A Wild Wood (Wild Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Superbly SENSUAL and Exciting!	In the much-anticipated sequel to UNDER A WILD SKY, this new and promising author, delivers another scorchingly sensual action adventure featuring Matalia McTaver, the eldest daughter of Ronin and Kalial.  Taught from childhood to wield a sword to protect herself and the forest of Loch Nidean she comes upon a traveler being set upon by a band of outsiders. Matalia, and the trio of wolves who travel with her, beat off the outsiders and save the traveler, Brogan O'Bannon. Rather than sending him on his way, the exquisitely beautiful and independent Matalia decides to keep the very handsome traveler to help her in her experiment to discover the secrets of the marriage bed.  She thought that if she were experienced and could tell her mother that she knew what marriage was all about then she would not have to endure any more of their efforts to marry her off and be controlled by a husband.<br /><br />Brogan O'Bannon was a fierce embittered warrior, traveling over the world to amass fortune and return home to satisfy the demands of his father to prove he was the stronger of two twins who were separated at birth. Waking up tied to a tree, he was infuriated at the attempts of this beautiful forest `faerie' who was conducting her `experiment' on him.  Brogan later escaped his bonds, and showed her exactly what carnal pleasure was all about in a most wild and unrelenting way.  Caught in her own experimental trap, Matalia would be forced by her parents into marriage and a bond with a man who would introduce her to an ecstasy far beyond her imagination  if they could only both survive the danger, treachery  and betrayal they would discover on his journey home.<br /><br />Double WOW! If you like them hot, seat squirming sensual -  along with a stellar love story, then this sequel to UNDER A WILD SKY is most definitely the book for you.  The basic plot of identical twins, and the mistake of marking the eldest, who were separated at birth and raised with the ultimate goal of besting one another for an inheritance was a powerful story in itself. Combining it with a superbly drawn heroine who would teach the embittered man to love was both touching and poignant. In examining the fantasy aspect, this one was minimal in scope to the first book.  Matalia's `gift'  was more in `taming' wild animals with song rather then the mind link and talking to them which her mother did. The human relationships, the mind link between the twins, and the fully robust secondary characters all worked together to provide the reader with a monumental and fascinating page-turner.  If this new author continues to deliver the quality I've seen in these first two books I predict another star in the making!  Both books are exceptional examples of their sub-genre and are finding their way onto my keeper shelves! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---besting one another for an inheritance was a powerful story in itself. Combining it with a superbly drawn heroine who would teach the embittered man to love was both touching and poignant. In examining the fantasy aspect, this one was minimal in scope to the first book.  Matalia's `gift'  was more in `taming' wild animals with song rather then the mind link and talking to them which her mother did. The human relationships, the mind link between the twins, and the fully robust secondary characters all worked together to provide the reader with a monumental and fascinating page-turner.  If this new author continues to deliver the quality I've seen in these first two books I predict another star in the making!  Both books are exceptional examples of their sub-genre and are finding their way onto my keeper shelves! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---  <br />	2004-08-03
568093:US	45284807	R1SNPUM0L8PFNV	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Once AGAIN - Kleypas Delivers - Magic!	Setting - Hampshire, England, 1832 --- Neglected by her aristocratic parents it wasn't surprising when the daughter of the house, Lady Aline Marsden would seek out a friend amongst the servants, and so, she and the young stable boy, John McKenna become bosom friends. As they grew older the childhood closeness they shared turned to a sensual desire of a love that they both knew could never be -even if they dreamed otherwise.  When their growing attachment was revealed to the Earl, her father threatened Aline with plans to destroy McKenna if she didn't break it off permanently. Knowing the heartlessness of her father, Aline told McKenna the lies that she knew would send him away and never return - all the while breaking her own heart as she was forced to break his.<br /><br />Twelve years later, McKenna, wealthy and successful beyond belief has returned to exact retribution on the woman that spurned his love and lowly status so many years before.  His plans were to seduce and then abandon her, hopefully leaving a remnant of the `bastard' she had spurned.  Nursing his hatred for all those years, he was not at all prepared once he saw her again for the flame of passion that still burned in his heart - not of vengeance but of a love that had never died.  Try as he might, McKenna was kept in the dark as he did his best to discover the secrets Aline kept, both of the supposed `sickness' that had befallen her and of the lies she'd been forced to tell.  In a spine tingling, climax that will have your heart in your throat, Aline would have to confront her greatest fear and trust that the love she still felt for McKenna would hold true and that the love he'd once felt for her hadn't been completely destroyed.  A love that that still burned brightly and defied all time.<br /><br />I know when I pick up a Kleypas novel that I will find another of her very powerful, and sensually filled romantic love stories and once more with, AGAIN THE MAGIC, she has captivated me again. This had not only one, but two very distinct and totally different romances, both featuring characters with overriding obstacles to overcome that were blended beautifully together.  Kleypas has a gift for creating characters that simply are so real and multi-faceted that the reader cannot help but become emotionally involved with the many passions and moods her eloquence with the written word creates. She has once again whetted my appetite, and now, I suppose I am going to have to faithfully wait for what I hope will be her next book featuring, Aline and Livia's brother Marcus' story.  A warning must be given though,  not to start any of her books late in the day, as this one again proved to be one I simply could not put down until finished!  When it comes to writing in the historical romance genre - Kleypas proves once more she is the 'Master of this Game'!... --- Marilyn Rondeau, (...)but two very distinct and totally different romances, both featuring characters with overriding obstacles to overcome that were blended beautifully together.  Kleypas has a gift for creating characters that simply are so real and multi-faceted that the reader cannot help but become emotionally involved with the many passions and moods her eloquence with the written word creates. She has once again whetted my appetite, and now, I suppose I am going to have to faithfully wait for what I hope will be her next book featuring, Aline and Livia's brother Marcus' story.  A warning must be given though,  not to start any of her books late in the day, as this one again proved to be one I simply could not put down until finished!  When it comes to writing in the historical romance genre - Kleypas proves once more she is the 'Master of this Game'!... --- Marilyn Rondeau, (...)	2004-08-03
568121:US	45284807	R1N2L7HN5QN55G	0425197786	566590985	The Heiress of Hyde Park (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable and Entertaining - Cinderealla Theme	Trista Nash, the illegitimate daughter of the governess had loved young master Roman Aylesgarth from the moment she saw him, although it would be some time before he grew up and returned the sentiment.  Eventually though, he too noticed and fell in love with her and life was promising with the future Trista had always dreamed of.  Unfortunately, when duty called and Roman was ordered, for the sake of the family to wed an heiress, he turned away from Trista, offering her instead the post of his mistress.  Grief-stricken with his insensitive treatment, Trista ran away to build a new life for herself and the unborn child she never told him about.<br /><br />Years later, Lady May Hayworth, sister to a roque who happened to be Trista's biological father discovered her existence and tracked her down to gift her with an inheritance that would change her life.  At the same time, Lord Roman Aylesgarth, now a widower, would re-enter her life and determinedly pursue the young woman who truly had been the love in his life that he'd never forgotten.  He said his feelings were as strong as ever yet he was unaware of the son she'd borne.  Could she ever take the chance of loving him again with the chance that he'd end up hating her for depriving him of his child? In his mind, would this beautiful woman be able to forgive him for the choice he'd made so many years before when he'd tossed love away for duty?<br /><br />In something of a Cinderella theme, this author continues with the second installment of her Mayfair Brides series.  The widowed Lady May Hayworth, reading her late brothers journals discovers that the rogue has left behind several illegitimate children and takes it upon herself to search out and find as many as she can.  Lady May is not only the fairy godmother handing out inheritances, but has her own complicated love life as well. The main theme features a central romance with two very wounded and flawed characters walking on eggshells trying to recapture the passionate love of their youth.  In addition to the usual romance, the author has given us a very touching story of a father trying to get close to a child who sees only the man who is taking away his mothers affections. Packed  with a very robust cast of secondary characters the readers will enjoy this second installment in this charming and emotional regency romance series.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---passionate love of their youth.  In addition to the usual romance, the author has given us a very touching story of a father trying to get close to a child who sees only the man who is taking away his mothers affections. Packed  with a very robust cast of secondary characters the readers will enjoy this second installment in this charming and emotional regency romance series.   --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---  <br />	2004-08-03
569370:US	45284807	R2HWBKP64WG8X7	1594140898	457528797	The Briar and the Rose	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding and Mesmerizing Debut Novel	Setting - England and Ireland 1827 ---  Devan, Marquess of Castlereagh, had fallen in love with the very beautiful Katherine from the moment he saw her, a mutual attraction, some would say that was pre-ordained.  Moments before they were to run away and elope to Gretna Greene a great fire erupted that trapped Katherine, and no amount of heroic effort on the part of Devan could save her.  Totally devastated, suffering the nightmares of Katherine's screams to save her, Devan left London for the tranquility of his Irish estate, Dahlingham.  Days after his arrival he gazed out to the gardens and spied the mysterious new maid his housekeeper and her daughter had found unconscious on the grounds days before. The young woman had no memory of who she was, or where she had come from, and had been nursed back to health by his housekeeper and her daughter Collette who would name her Raven. When Devan finally sent for her, he saw the very image of the woman he had loved and lost, his beloved Katherine. Soon, she was installed in the upper floors, and treated as his guest while he tried to discover who she was.  A mystery as her speech switched back and forth from an Irish peasant brogue, to a `lady' with precise and correct English speech.<br /><br />Almost immediately, Devan's nightmares of Katherine stopped only to be replaced by dreams of Raven who invaded his consciousness both night and day. Raven had nightmares and dreams as well, of a time, people, and places from long, long ago, until soon the face of her dream lover became the face of Devan. Terrified that she was losing her mind, as well as her heart, Raven did her best to distance herself from Devan by using the friendship of his friend Victor, Duke of Brookshire.  Was it reincarnation, a foul trick, or was it madness?  History would almost repeat itself, if not for the interference of Devan's wonderful friend Victor, who would save the day for Raven and Devan and give them the chance to right a wrong that had torn the two apart 200 years before.  But wait, the story does not end there, as another more surprising twist will stun the readers in this amazing sensual tale of reincarnation and second chance at love.<br /><br />In this, her debut novel, the author admits being inspired by the tragic folk ballad of Barbara Allen and Sweet William. She has crafted an amazingly intense and totally sensual tale, so complex and riveting that it will simply take your breath away with emotions her vivid words evoke in the readers mind. Filled with memorable visual imagery, and stimulating dialogs you will find your emotions engaged with scenes of passion, love and betrayals.  This is an outstanding, debut novel by a very talented writer that should not to be missed, and should have fans of historical and supernatural genres immediately looking to find a copy  that they'll want on their `keeper shelves'.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---orn the two apart 200 years before.  But wait, the story does not end there, as another more surprising twist will stun the readers in this amazing sensual tale of reincarnation and second chance at love.    <br /> <br /> <br />In this, her debut novel, the author admits being inspired by the tragic folk ballad of Barbara Allen and Sweet William. She has crafted an amazingly intense and totally sensual tale, so complex and riveting that it will simply take your breath away with emotions her vivid words evoke in the readers mind. Filled with memorable visual imagery, and stimulating dialogs you will find your emotions engaged with scenes of passion, love and betrayals.  This is an outstanding, debut novel by a very talented writer that should not to be missed, and should have fans of historical and supernatural genres immediately looking to find a copy  that they'll want on their `keeper shelves'.   --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---  <br /> <br />	2004-08-01
573995:US	45284807	RFCOWM4MGMDOI	0425195252	557142549	Merely the Groom (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Charming Tale -	Setting - England, 1812 ---  In the second installment of Lee's 'Free Fellows League' Colin McElreath (Viscount Grantham) becomes the second victim to become leg-shackled in marriage - a state that to the young adolescent boys who had originated  the league considered as a fate worse than death. Now grown up and working as a spy for the war office, Colin had established his spy persona as a smuggler working out of the Blue Bottle Inn.  It was on one of his nightly excursions that he spied a lovely lady keeping vigil in an upper room of the inn and wished that it were for him that she kept said vigil - that wish would somehow became prophetic in more ways than one.<br /><br />When Colin and his fellow Free Fellows learn that a Bow Street runner is closing in on Colin Fox (Colin's alias as a spy) they discovered that someone else had been using that name to seduce unsuspecting young woman into elopement and ruination.  One woman's father was determined to hunt him down.  Baron Davies, is no man's fool and when Colin is dispatched to try and convince the Baron to call off the hunt, the Baron decides that now that his daughter has been compromised, a husband is required to save Gillian's reputation and Viscount Grantham, whose financial situation was less than promising, but whose title was old and honorable, would fit the bill.  Marriage to his daughter, or the Baron would continue his investigation thereby totally compromising Colin's cover - and after all, marriage with a handsome dowry and Gillian Davies would certainly be worth the sacrifice.<br /><br />Once again, Ms. Lee has crafted an engaging and darling Regency-era novel set in the midst of the Napoleonic conflicts.  With the use of the prologue that is a repeat from BARELY A BRIDE, the first book in this trilogy, one has no problem with this book standing alone.  Though the marriage was 'forced' the two protagonists were 'known' to one another and their mutual attraction turned out to be their destiny.  I loved that it allowed Gillian, who had made a foolish mistake in being such a romantic and eloping with the wrong person, was given a second chance at love.  Colin, whose old and honorable title and empty pockets, due to his fathers gambling addiction, was truly Gillian's 'knight in shining armor' - her true Galahad.  The intrigue subplot of the cad who had left Gillian in such dire straits, ended up playing a very small but secondary  part in what was primarily a very loving and romantic read that is sure to warm many a readers heart. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---I loved that it allowed Gillian, who had made a foolish mistake in being such a romantic and eloping with the wrong person, was given a second chance at love.  Colin, whose old and honorable title and empty pockets, due to his fathers gambling addiction, was truly Gillian's 'knight in shining armor' - her true Galahad.  The intrigue subplot of the cad who had left Gillian in such dire straits, ended up playing a very small but secondary  part in what was primarily a very loving and romantic read that is sure to warm many a readers heart. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---    <br /> <br />	2004-07-28
574085:US	45284807	RI28OFPRKREJX	0060549300	149588686	It Takes a Hero (Avon Romantic Treasure Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Still Good BUT Really a 3-1/2*	Setting - England 1817 ---  Raphael 'Rafe' Danvers, did not fit into the polite ton society since coming home from the Peninsular wars, yet here he was being summoned by the Countess Tottley to join her at her morning salon.  It seemed that the young daughters of the ton had thought to emulate a popular 'fictional' heroine who had vowed after the demise of her 'fictional' beau to never marry! This author had to be found, in order to make her stop writing so that the match-making mamas of the ton could convince their impressionable young daughters to stop turning down offers of marriage to their eligible suitors.  Knowing that Rafe had no home of his own, Lady Tottley thought to entice him in aiding her and mothers of  the other marriageable daughters of the ton to locate M. Briggs the elusive author of the immensely popular Miss Darby chronicles, by offering him an estate - a bit of a 'handy-man's special.<br /><br />Rafe, a confirmed bachelor, would rather solve the murder he'd been working on with the promise of a hefty monetary reward but the thought of an estate - a home to call his own - was just too good to pass up.  He traveled to every bachelors nightmare, the matchmaking capital of Kent - Bramley Hollow where he discovered the very infuriating and lovely Miss Rebecca Tate.  His gut feelings told him she was the elusive author, and his brain told him he should forget about it and go look for a murderer instead - it would have been less dangerous for his state of mind and body.<br /><br />Normally, I have found Elizabeth Boyle's novels to be fast and funny page-turners, but have to confess that I couldn't categorize this in the  'I can't put it down' standard I associate with her earlier books.  While the story was good, it just didn't engage my emotions as much as her previous novels of the other Danver family members.  The zest just wasn't there, even with some very engaging sparring matches between the main protagonists.  The mystery of the original murder Rafe was working to solve was eventually worked into the search for the elusive author and brought to an almost too abrupt conclusion - but of course, the romance was the prime objective.  The one thing that didn't seem to make sense to me with regard to the heroines apparent insolvency was her obvious success of the Miss Darby novels.  With so successful a writing career her fixation and greediness in wanting to obtain and keep the legendary and valuable Kailash ruby seemed out of place, especially where she seemed to want to stay and live a peaceful existence in the country.  Some of the more enjoyable and humorous moments were provided by Rebecca's 'batty' uncle; her very ferocious tom-cat Ajax; and of course, the witty dialogs filling out the requisite gender banter.  Bottom line - My nit-picking aside, this was still an entertaining effort and fans of Elizabeth Boyle will not be too disappointed. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---l murder Rafe was working to solve was eventually worked into the search for the elusive author and brought to an almost too abrupt conclusion - but of course, the romance was the prime objective.  The one thing that didn't seem to make sense to me with regard to the heroines apparent insolvency was her obvious success of the Miss Darby novels.  With so successful a writing career her fixation and greediness in wanting to obtain and keep the legendary and valuable Kailash ruby seemed out of place, especially where she seemed to want to stay and live a peaceful existence in the country.  Some of the more enjoyable and humorous moments were provided by Rebecca's 'batty' uncle; her very ferocious tom-cat Ajax; and of course, the witty dialogs filling out the requisite gender banter.  Bottom line - My nit-picking aside, this was still an entertaining effort and fans of Elizabeth Boyle will not be too disappointed. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] --- <br />	2004-07-28
575130:US	45284807	R1GKEAN40V44WH	0425191249	399531140	Barely A Bride (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A Dream of a Read!	Setting - England 1810 --- The opening in this first installment of the 'Free Fellows League' introduces us to three young titled adolescent boys who while away at school formed a secret brotherhood to become England's hero against the impending war with France.  Furthermore, they would swear off the leg-shackling institution of marriage at least until the age of 30 or, unless it became absolutely necessary and never, ever, under any condition, fall in love. Years later, Viscount 'Griffin' Abernathy, follows his dream and buys a commission in the cavalry to go and fight the French. His father found out just in time before he left and more or less blackmailed him to find, marry, and beget an heir before leaving for the continent.  Luckily, while attending Almacks, he did notice a young woman whom he thought just might suit him and gained an introduction. Unfortunately, she was one of the season's incomparables and her ambitious mother felt that no less than a duke would do  for her youngest daughter.<br /><br />Lady Alyssa Carrollton, had formulated her own plans for her life and becoming a duchess just wasn't one of them.  Finding herself eavesdropping on a private conversation between three young men discussing something called the 'free fellows league' she was curious to discover just who they were.  Later as she realized that the handsomest of the lot was one of the gentlemen she had eavesdropped upon, she was more than interested in finding out who he was.  Later introduced, and allowed  a waltz then a private conversation she realized that Griffin would be more than an acceptable husband, especially when he offered her the one thing she 'thought' she wanted most - her very own garden to design. I say 'thought' because once she had been kissed by the very handsome young viscount, her thoughts on marriage to the young man became decidedly different.  Now the biggest obstacle would be in gaining her fathers approval.<br /><br />I have to say that I loved everything about this book and smiled almost, from the first to the last page!  Alyssa was the sweetest and most darling of heroines, Griffin who approached the whole marriage concept as a means to an end turned into a surprisingly wonderful hero! He was so sweet and caring, that you really wanted to hug and squeeze them both for being so perfectly matched up together!  I laughed out loud over Griffins interview with Alyssa's father as he bargained for her hand in marriage - her father - what a hoot he was!  With splendid secondary characters, wonderfully witty dialogs, hot and sensual seduction scenes, and with the heart wrenching emotions that had me sobbing -  this was for me a most perfect read!  Bottom line - This is a non-stop can't put it down kind of read that kept me reading way into the wee small hours!  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ----ything about this book and smiled almost, from the first to the last page!  Alyssa was the sweetest and most darling of heroines, Griffin who approached the whole marriage concept as a means to an end turned into a surprisingly wonderful hero! He was so sweet and caring, that you really wanted to hug and squeeze them both for being so perfectly matched up together!  I laughed out loud over Griffins interview with Alyssa's father as he bargained for her hand in marriage - her father - what a hoot he was!  With splendid secondary characters, wonderfully witty dialogs, hot and sensual seduction scenes, and with the heart wrenching emotions that had me sobbing -  this was for me a most perfect read!  Bottom line - This is a non-stop can't put it down kind of read that kept me reading way into the wee small hours!  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ----  <br />	2004-07-27
579364:US	45284807	R13A33MUY5CLMF	0515133477	699898891	Always a Lady	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Will Bring a Smile to Your Face - Sweetly Entertaining	Setting ? Ireland ? England 1838 --- In the third installment of the Marquess of Templeston Heirs trilogy, Christopher ?Kit? George Ramsey has grown up and come into one of his inheritances. Along with two of his life-long best friends he travels to Ireland to both claim his inheritance as the Earl of Kilgannon, and as he laughingly joked ?find his destiny?.  What he did find along with his title, and a beautiful castle, was a newly acquired ward.  Initially he assumed that the ward would be a young girl and all he?d need would be to hire a governess, etc.  What he discovered instead, was that his ?ward? was a stunningly beautiful young woman.  In addition, and according to Father Francis, Mariah?s dying mother had made him promise on her deathbed that he would see to it that Mariah?s guardian, the Earl of Kilgannon, make sure that her daughter be given a seasons debut.  Now, this was going to be quite a feat since his ward had been raised in the convent, her only accomplishment was as a heavenly head baker and she had virtually no training at all in the society rules that governed the ton.<br /><br />Having been brought up in a convent since the age of six, Mariah Shaughnessy, kept alive in her heart, the memory of young boy she?d met 14 years earlier.  That young boy, who of course was Kit, at the advanced age of eight had then kissed her and promised he?d return to marry her when they were all grown up. Naturally, they did not recognize each other and he had never known her name and although she knew the boy?s name to be Kit, as a grownup everyone was now referring to him as Lord Kilgannon. Before they realized their bond and childhood connection Kit and Mariah were falling in love. It looked to be clear sailing until a buried memory of Mariah?s surfaced, both in her mind and in the flesh, that threatened their dreams of a happily ever after.<br /><br />I believe that the author saved this third book, which really should have been the second novel in this trilogy, as the best for last.  It would be hard to find two more deserving or sweeter protagonists.  Kit?s boyhood and lifelong friends, who played wonderful supporting characters, were what everyone should wish for in true to life friends. The humor aspect, using Mariah?s frankness and confessions to Father Francis were a definite hoot!  Disclosing the contents of letters from deceased parents of both Kit and Mariah ? both of these ?orphans? were apprised of the deep and abiding love of being wanted and cherished ? and yes, the reader can expect these letters to definitely bring tears to your eyes. Once again, the reader is treated to an enormously happy, sweet and very charming ?fairy tale? romance that most romance lovers certainly dream about.  Bottom line ? this was an enormously satisfying and sweet romance sure to bring a little joy to your heart. ---  Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---trilogy, as the best for last.  It would be hard to find two more deserving or sweeter protagonists.  Kit?s boyhood and lifelong friends, who played wonderful supporting characters, were what everyone should wish for in true to life friends. The humor aspect, using Mariah?s frankness and confessions to Father Francis were a definite hoot!  Disclosing the contents of letters from deceased parents of both Kit and Mariah ? both of these ?orphans? were apprised of the deep and abiding love of being wanted and cherished ? and yes, the reader can expect these letters to definitely bring tears to your eyes. Once again, the reader is treated to an enormously happy, sweet and very charming ?fairy tale? romance that most romance lovers certainly dream about.  Bottom line ? this was an enormously satisfying and sweet romance sure to bring a little joy to your heart. ---  Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] --- <br />	2004-07-23
581326:US	45284807	R1988GXDV3SZE0	0515132500	599575925	Ever a Princess	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Amusing, witty and Sweet sensuality	Setting ? Scotland and England ? 1874 ---  In this second novel in the Marquess of Templeston?s Heir trilogy, we are introduced to Princess Georgiana ?Giana? May heir to the throne of Karolya.  After her cousin, Prince Victor, murders her parents in a coup attempt, Princess Giana, is spirited away by her loyal servants to a hunting lodge in Scotland.  Unknown to them, their peaceful coexistence is about to be shattered when American millionaire, Adam McKendrick arrives after winning the lodge in a card game  with the intentions of turning it into a ?for gentlemen only? golf resort. When Adam arrives he is somewhat surprised to discover a ?staff? already in residence in what he had assumed was an abandoned and little used hunting lodge.  What truly disturbed him was to find a tall, beautiful blonde along with her pony-sized dog (Wagner) in what was designated as the master?s bedroom.  Now that, in itself was bad enough, but to then realize he felt an attraction to her, when she wasn?t his ?type? seemed to bother him even more!<br /><br />The better part of the story then becomes quite humorous as Princess Giana, fondly called ?George? by Adam, attempts, very ineptly, to assume the duties of a ?maid?. Adam, in the meantime, recognizes her ?innocence? yet can?t seem to control his baser sexual attraction and taunts her with improper and provocative innuendo dialogs that somehow get lost in some of ?her? translations - cute!  Alas, it does seem to dawn on Adam that all is not what it seems when it comes to George; his ?staff? - who seem to be adhering to an agenda that isn?t his; and of course, his eventual discovery of who George really is.<br /><br />I found this to be a really cute and sweet romance. Adam, having four older sisters, is quite the champion for female rights and this is very apparent at the end of the book, after he?s worked out some testosterone issues once he is convinced that what he always thought was his type,  turned out to be George!  His seduction of ?George?, although initiated by him, got flipped around once ?George? discovered that she liked the feelings his kisses inspired in her.  I loved the dog Wagner, and the other secondary characters including Victor, the heinous villain in the piece, were sufficient to add substance but did not detract from the main romance theme.  Although, a bit unusual in trilogies to have a huge time gap from the first novel set in 1818 to the second set in 1874 I would advise reading the third published entry (ALWAYS A LADY), set in 1838, in order to keep more of a continuity line before reading this second published novel.  What should be noted here is that none of these novels need to be read in any specific order, as each can and does stand-alone.  Bottom line -- I found this a light read, amusing, and witty with a sweetly enjoyable sensuality. ---Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---on of ?George?, although initiated by him, got flipped around once ?George? discovered that she liked the feelings his kisses inspired in her.  I loved the dog Wagner, and the other secondary characters including Victor, the heinous villain in the piece, were sufficient to add substance but did not detract from the main romance theme.  Although, a bit unusual in trilogies to have a huge time gap from the first novel set in 1818 to the second set in 1874 I would advise reading the third published entry (ALWAYS A LADY), set in 1838, in order to keep more of a continuity line before reading this second published novel.  What should be noted here is that none of these novels need to be read in any specific order, as each can and does stand-alone.  Bottom line -- I found this a light read, amusing, and witty with a sweetly enjoyable sensuality. ---Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-07-21
582602:US	45284807	R5NGZPC1Q7YPB	0515131687	863649242	Once A Mistress	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable Second Chance at Love	Setting ? England, 1818 --- After a tragic sailing accident kills his father and his current mistress, Andrew Ramsey, now the new Marquis, found himself the executor of an intriguing codicil to his father?s last will and testament.  The codicil stated that Andrew would assume the care of any illegitimate offspring born within nine months of his demise, from any of the many mistresses he?d taken to comfort him after the death of his beloved wife.  Planning to bury his father and his companion together, Andrew traveled to evict his father?s live-in mistress, a Mrs. Stoddard, from the family estate.  The intention being that Andrew wished to avoid any more scandal  of having one mistress presiding over the burial of another mistress!  He was then devastated to find that Mrs. Stoddard was in fact, Kathryn Markinson, the one and only woman he had ever loved,  who had jilted him at the altar four years before.<br /><br />Andrew was hurt beyond belief, that his beloved father - who knew of his pain at being jilted ? would take his former fianc?e as his mistress. The pain and betrayal only intensified once he discovered that she was also mother to his father?s illegitimate son Kit, his step brother ? a child that should have been his!  Not only did he have to deal with these feelings of betrayal, but also was amazed to discover that in spite of it all, he still wanted her!  Kathryn, still loved him even though she had married another who was old enough to be her father, then became the mistress to bearing his father a son.  The mystery of how Andrew could still love and desire this woman after all she?d done was incidental to the puzzles the reader will feel compelled to solve as to why Kathryn didn?t show up for her wedding and what motivated her behavior afterwards.<br /><br />Once again, the reader will benefit from another well-written and engaging historical novel unfortunately, with the one blatant error of naming an illegitimate child as heir apparent to a marquis ? uh oh ? big slip-up there!  The mystery of why his father didn?t marry Kathryn to legitimize Kit, and why Kathryn couldn?t tell Drew the truth of that fateful period, will propel the reader into furiously turning the pages to discover the secrets in an emotional edge of the seat finale. Fans of Ms. Hagan Lee will not be disappointed in this passionately poignant and heartwarming tale.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---arquis ? uh oh ? big slip-up there!   The mystery of why his father didn?t marry Kathryn to legitimize Kit, and why Kathryn couldn?t tell Drew the truth of that fateful period, will propel the reader into furiously turning the pages to discover the secrets in an emotional edge of the seat finale. Fans of Ms. Hagan Lee will not be disappointed in this passionately poignant and heartwarming tale.   --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---  <br />	2004-07-20
584057:US	45284807	RRHLAJYJU5IDT	0425197093	10019024	To Find You Again (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Splendid and Exciting Page Turner - Intense Sensuality	At the age of 15, Emma Hartwell had been adopted into the Lakota Sioux by a kindly warrior and his wife who had lost their own daughter months before.  Initially terrified, she soon adjusted to their way of life and for seven years had lived the life of the People. During a devastating massacre of her adopted tribe by the army she was recognized as a white woman.  Severely wounded and hovering between life and death she had been returned to her parents and sister, but the homecoming was not as welcoming from the surrounding community who now considered her a `squaw woman' who had been ruined by the `red savages'.  Telling some but not all of her experiences with 'the People', she harbored a secret that was tearing her apart every day and knew she had to return to find out who had survived the massacre.<br />Ridge Madoc, once an army scout, had come home after years away at war to find that the ranch and land he had inherited had bit by bit been sold off to little than a hundred acres left.  After coming to her assistance Emma thought he might be able to help her find the tribe but he turned her down.  After learning that her parents would be sending her back East to avoid the gossip in town, Emma seized the moment and set out on her own to find that part of her heart that had been left behind. Ridge, hired by her father to track down and bring her back, would find her but Emma succeeded in convincing him to continue on to help her find what remained of the tribe.  It wasn't until they located them that Ridge discovered her secret - her half-breed son, Chayton.  Along the way, Ridge and Emma had given in to the physical passion each recognized in one another, although neither would admit to the real feelings that had developed. Soon Emma would be forced to make the choice no mother should ever have to make and would the shelter she'd found in Ridges' arms help to give her the strength to heal the heartache in her soul.<br />This was an extremely good, fast paced and exciting western romance from an author who really knows how to make the west come alive. While the sexual attraction in this romance was passionate in intensity and extremely well written it evolved slowly enough for the two protagonists to really get to know and respect the other's strengths.  It will certainly engage your emotions over the unfair attitudes that prevailed between the whites and American Indians during this shameful part of American history, especially over the heart breaking decisions that should never have had to be made because of race bigotry.  All in all, this is a splendid and exciting page turning romance with intense sensuality. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---and exciting western romance from an author who really knows how to make the west come alive. While the sexual attraction in this romance was passionate in intensity and extremely well written it evolved slowly enough for the two protagonists to really get to know and respect the other's strengths.  It will certainly engage your emotions over the unfair attitudes that prevailed between the whites and American Indians during this shameful part of American history, especially over the heart breaking decisions that should never have had to be made because of race bigotry.  All in all, this is a splendid and exciting page turning romance with intense sensuality. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-07-19
584217:US	45284807	R290IWZHX72AKG	0515129054	776776683	A Hint of Heather (Seduction Romance)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Wonderful Scottish Tale by a Master Wordsmith	Setting  Scotland, 1716 ---  The future that faced Clan MacInnes after the English finished their plunder in retribution for the Clans' support of Bonnie Prince Charlie was devastating.  There was virtually no food left, no livestock, no leather for shoes, nothing of value and, no young men to marry the women remaining in the Clan; the Clan would soon die out as well as their heritage.  In foresight, the father of the Lady Jessalyn, along with his privy council, made up of the last remaining three elders of the clan, had contacted a powerful English ally and sought his help.<br />The English Earl of  Derrowood, Neil Claremont, might have viewed the injustice dealt to the Scotts people as unjust  but as far as he was concerned, it wasn't his problem....he hated Scotland, was there only as a member of His Majesty's Royal Corps of Engineers to do a job.  He resented the interruption of his apprenticeship to the master architect of the day, Sir Christopher Wren and couldn't wait to get back to London and his studies. What Neil was not aware of was a plot, involving his beloved grandfather that would bind him to Scotland and the newest laird of Clan MacInnes.<br />Set free from the chains imprisoning him for a minor infraction against his despicable commanding officer, Neil was then kidnapped and brought to the highland village to marry the newest Laird of Clan MacInnes, Lady Jessalyn.  The fact that she was a bonny young woman wasn't quite enough temptation but when he was shown the signed betrothal documents with HIS signature, he saw his grandfather's hand in the deception, and felt honor bound to comply.  Insulting his bride to be, with the comments of her dirty unshod bare feet, he found that she was no pushover and not about to be intimidated by his insults.  He soon discovered that her strength and determination were traits that he found as appealing as the lass herself.  When the marriage was consummated Jessalyn was less than pleased with the boasts her husband had made as to his prowess in the bedchamber and Neil knew he had a LOT to make up for!<br />This was a darling story that has some very humorous and very tender moments. The secondary characters were drawn with a richness and depth I've come to expect from this author.  I loved the wooing with the shoes, and especially enjoyed the way Neil's grandmere handled his former mistress - delightful! The villain in the piece was truly a piece of work and was dealt with by Lady Jessalyn in a MOST appropriate way! Three cheers for this charming and irresistible tale! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---had made as to his prowess in the bedchamber and Neil knew he had a LOT to make up for!<br />This was a darling story that has some very humorous and very tender moments. The secondary characters were drawn with a richness and depth I've come to expect from this author.  I loved the wooing with the shoes, and especially enjoyed the way Neil's grandmere handled his former mistress - delightful! The villain in the piece was truly a piece of work and was dealt with by Lady Jessalyn in a MOST appropriate way! Three cheers for this charming and irresistible tale! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---	2004-07-18
588247:US	45284807	R1A8C5UTOTZDO2	0515127124	50722618	Whisper Always	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Splendid Historical Background - Outstanding Love Story	Setting - London and Vienna 1878-1880 ---  Set in a period using actual historical events the author again weaves for the reader a glorious love story of great emotional depth. Our heroine, the season's incomparable, Christina Fairfax is about to make her debut before the Queen in gown that she finds totally detestable.  Trying to adjust said gown, in what she assumed was an empty chamber she is discovered by Lord Blake Ashford who amusingly helps the young chit make the adjustments.  His arrogance, black looks, and amusement at her predicament did nothing to endure him to her yet sparks did fly between them.  Returning to the ball, she is captured in the arms of Rupert, the Crown Prince of Hapsburg-Lorraine. Unaware of who he was, and still smarting from the set-down Lord Blake had given her she was anything but charming to her waltz partner and returned his over friendly overtures with sarcasm.  Days later her avaricious and immoral mother would attend a private party and sell her Christina's innocence to the highest bidder - that bidder being none other than the Crown Prince. Lord Blake, a witness to the event was fuming.<br />Her mother, after having Christina daughter beaten  and drugged, had her delivered to the residence to be complete the deal, only Christina was not about to succumb so easily.  Left in the bedroom of the prince, she tore his sheets into strips and attempted to escape through the window when rescue came in the guise of Lord Blake.  After hearing of the transaction, Lord Blake was planning to rescue Christina once again and had been making plans to switch Cristina for a similar looking [prostitute].  What follows is a series of adventures, misconceptions, and miscommunications  as the two keep crossing paths until the they both give in to the undeniable attraction that had sparks flying the moment they met.<br />For those who think that this was a simple love story, let me put your mind at rest...the road to pure happy bliss for these two was paved with, danger, madness, lust, and unbelievable betrayals!  This is a story that will have you laughing, crying, and sitting on the edge of your seat in this FULL BODIED romantic adventure.  Twists and turns were adeptly played in a wonderfully crafted novel.  The secondary characters were portrayed wonderfully for both humor and malicious aspects.  I have been reading a series of Ms. Hagan Lees earlier novels and so far have been more than pleased with her accurate and painstaking attention to the historical detail of her settings and can only say that I've yet to be disappointed.  This author has become an automatic buy for me for delivering what I love best, beautifully romantic love stories that touch my heart.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---was paved with, danger, madness, lust, and unbelievable betrayals!  This is a story that will have you laughing, crying, and sitting on the edge of your seat in this FULL BODIED romantic adventure.  Twists and turns were adeptly played in a wonderfully crafted novel.  The secondary characters were portrayed wonderfully for both humor and malicious aspects.   I have been reading a series of Ms. Hagan Lees earlier novels and so far have been more than pleased with her accurate and painstaking attention to the historical detail of her settings and can only say that I've yet to be disappointed.  This author has become an automatic buy for me for delivering what I love best, beautifully romantic love stories that touch my heart.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-07-15
592385:US	45284807	R21NQ7YTFS4CXW	0515124303	902029966	Gossamer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Absolutely Beautiful !	Setting - San Francisco, 1837 --- Elizabeth Sadler, a bankers daughter, had been brought up in a genteel society.  Disowned by her grandmother she had come to San Francisco to join her brother only to find that he had died and been buried two months earlier.  Near destitute, and having nowhere to turn to she was sobbing her eyes out.  Hearing the heart wrenching cries coming from the room next to his, wealthy businessman James Craig felt impelled to offer whatever comfort he could.  The cries were to him a nightmare and a  burden he carried within his heart.  Opening the door to a stranger was not something she would normally do but Elizabeth couldn't help herself when his kind eyes offered a comfort she desperately needed.  He held her like a child throughout the night though the next morning, she ran away never thinking to see the kind stranger again.<br />James, later returns home to find that he has lost another governess, and gained another `Treasure'.  Deciding that Elizabeth, who claimed to have lost her last teaching post would make a splendid governess - notwithstanding the fact that she was the first woman he'd met that he'd like to spend time with --- set the local police out to find her using the theft of his handkerchief as an excuse to lodge a charge of petty larceny. Warned that the police were looking for her, Elizabeth (you got to love her!) figured if she were going to be arrested it would be for more than petty larceny!  The police located her when she went to the opium den of Lo Peng that her brother died in and proceeded to tear it apart!<br />Alerted by the police, James, bails her out and convinces her to accept the governess post, which was fine until she discovered that his `treasures' were Chinese.  Orientals, just like Lo Peng, the hated crime lord who provided the opium that killed her brother.  James convinces her to stay and within a short time falls desperately in love with the children and James. In spite of one of James' daughters, Ruby (spoiled brat) the love blossoms between the two, until a tragic accident threatens to tear their love apart.<br />Absolutely beautiful --- THIS is why I love ROMANCE novels!  Absolutely divine character development, from the lead to the secondary characters.  The children were darling - even Ruby who truly was a spoiled brat! The author touches upon a horrid Chinese practice of treating female children as garbage and one man's attempt to save as many of these treasures in order to give them life and love.  This was such an enchanting tale, I hated to see it end and it will stay with you long after you've finished. This is a fabulous read by a very gifted author - very poignant yet joyful.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...] ---Ruby (spoiled brat) the love blossoms between the two, until a tragic accident threatens to tear their love apart.  <br />Absolutely beautiful --- THIS is why I love ROMANCE novels!  Absolutely divine character development, from the lead to the secondary characters.  The children were darling - even Ruby who truly was a spoiled brat! The author touches upon a horrid Chinese practice of treating female children as garbage and one man's attempt to save as many of these treasures in order to give them life and love.  This was such an enchanting tale, I hated to see it end and it will stay with you long after you've finished. This is a fabulous read by a very gifted author - very poignant yet joyful.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...] ---	2004-07-12
594402:US	45284807	R2JFORY21A2JCJ	1557737509	921672043	Golden Chances (Homespun)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful American Frontier Historical - Original	Setting - Virginia and Wyoming 1869 --- Reese Alexander Jordan considered himself a master strategist as he placed an ad in the newspaper that would get him exactly what he wanted, an heir without having to be married. Wealthy enough he would be able to gain his hearts desire without having to endure having his heart broken again.<br />Faith Collins, was a member of the Richmond Ladies Sewing Circle.  Living with her aunts and assorted relatives in the once beautiful antebellum mansion that was literally falling down upon their heads, she worried over just how they would be able to pay the taxes and fix the roof before being totally homeless.  Discovering a folded newspaper with Reese's ad - an ad altered to read a tad differently than what was really intended -- Faith traveled to Washington and was hired.  When the mistake was discovered, Faith was already halfway falling for her employer, and the absolute need of the advance payment swayed her into agreeing to have his child and then disappear once it was born.  On the train, somewhere along the way to Cheyenne, Wyoming Faith knew she had fallen in love only it would be some time before Reese would recognize that the family he yearned for was in front of his face and included Faith!<br />This was an absolute gem of a romance.  Reese was wealthy and influential, yet he did not have the bloodlines to sway his first love into marriage after she publicly jilted him at the alter in order to humiliate him. One thoughtless, hateful event soured him on marriage.  Faith hadn't any idea of his history, but she was so very brave and loving thinking that she could prove invaluable and persuade him to love her before sending her away after she produced a child.  Reese on the other hand, recognized his love, but was so afraid of asking her - for fear of being refused again - that he almost lost her anyhow.  With an original plot, fresh writing, beautiful tenderness, lively secondary characters, and the hero's devilish charm, this is just what I look for and enjoy in a romance.  I can highly recommend this read to lovers of early American frontier historicals - simply darling.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---this is just what I look for and enjoy in a romance.  I can highly recommend this read to lovers of early American frontier historicals - simply darling.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-07-11
596554:US	45284807	R18H3F29KIA5VY	0380820838	493470499	London's Perfect Scoundrel (Lessons in Love, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Lovely Regency with Wonderful Sensuality	In the second installment of Enoch's  Lessons in Love series Miss Evelyn Marie Ruddick had made her list of things she would like to teach to her, as of yet, unnamed scoundrel. At the present time though, her main concern was to do something for the orphans of the Heart of Hope orphanage and in the process, she found her pupil... the Marquis of St. Aubyn, aka \\"Saint\\" who just happened to be the head of the orphanages board of directors.  More importantly, he was known widely as London's most perfect scoundrel, and banned from most of gentle society's social establishments - not that he cared!<br />Evie, determined to aid the children in the orphanage, needed the approval of the arrogant and devilishly charming St. Aubyn,  and,  if in the meantime, she could impart a few lessons to him -  so much the better.  It almost seemed as though she were getting both her wishes until she discovered his nefarious plans of demolishing the orphanage. That was when the gloves came off and with the aid of the delightful children, they kidnapped the Marquis and locked him in the dungeon. Unfortunately, for Evie his touch, his looks, his words had already done much to inflame her desires. Once he escaped, his `blackmail' to keep silent over her kidnapping him, was nothing short of pure bliss!<br />Loved this book!  Evelyn Marie was a darling and the Saint - oooh, what a devil! The plot itself was very original and fun; the children were a delight; and the sensuality was passionate and heady!  As part of the series, it can and most definitely does stand alone, but is also enhanced with involvement of Evelyn's best friends, Georgiana and Dare from THE RAKE, and Lucinda Barrett from ENGLAND'S PERFECT HERO.  Any lover of Regency romances who like them served up with naughty and `very nice' sensuality will sure to be pleased with any or all of these books in Enoch's Lessons in Love series.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-07-09
603757:US	45284807	R27KAGERBT8JLE	0743456181	553104352	Almost Like Being in Love (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 2)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Still a Great Storyteller	In the second installment of Dodd's contemporary trilogy, the middle Prescott sister, Pepper is featured as a hard-nosed, hard-working, wounded young woman with a tremendous amount of trust issues.  Orphaned, and torn from her family at the age of eight, she had been parceled out and lived in various foster homes, none for very long as her rebelliousness caused her to be tossed around quite often. Only once, - the final foster home in Diamond Idaho, where she had stayed the longest did she feel some sense of belonging, but even from there she ran.  The years in between, after reading an inspiring  memoir of a woman's accomplishments, she turned her life around and started a thriving landscape business.  Discovering and witnessing her hero, General Jennifer Napier, killing her aide after he accused her of furnishing government secrets to terrorists, Pepper who had been living under an assumed name herself, knew she had to run for her life because who would believe her word over that of a General.  Running to the last place that had felt like a home to her, Pepper discovered that her long lost lover Dan Graham, had taken up residence and was now keeping up the ranch.  Not only was Dan there, but her foster mother had died and left the ranch to her.  Years before, Dan was the reason she had left, and the years in between hadn't lessened the attraction they both still felt, but trust was another matter entirely.<br />In this sequel, Dodd turns up the heat in some very passionate and exciting sensual laden encounters.  Brisk writing, page turning action, and hot and steamy sex had all the makings of this being a stellar read, but for the fact that I was totally aggravated with our heroine and hero - especially Pepper.  After all, after having this amazingly sensual connection with a he-man type gorgeous soldier, she couldn't TRUST him to tell the truth, to share her burdens that someone (an Army General) was trying to kill her? And her reasons for running away from him in the first place - didn't cut it. Granted he had his secrets too, but she was just too prickly to warm up to.  I did like the action, the covert gadgets and thrill of terrorists attack. Unfortunately, even the hero turned into too much of a cave-man with the `you belong to me - we're mated' statement! Ugh, I cringe! But sensibilities aside, when an author can arouse readers emotions with a characters' distasteful personality - then you do have to appreciate the writing talent and Ms. Dodd is certainly that, a writer with enormous talent.  Bottom line - I enjoyed the read, I just didn't warm up to nor embrace the main characters.  ----- Marilyn Rondeau,  Official Reviewer for [...] ----m in the first place - didn't cut it. Granted he had his secrets too, but she was just too prickly to warm up to.  I did like the action, the covert gadgets and thrill of terrorists attack. Unfortunately, even the hero turned into too much of a cave-man with the `you belong to me - we're mated' statement! Ugh, I cringe! But sensibilities aside, when an author can arouse readers emotions with a characters' distasteful personality - then you do have to appreciate the writing talent and Ms. Dodd is certainly that, a writer with enormous talent.  Bottom line - I enjoyed the read, I just didn't warm up to nor embrace the main characters.  ----- Marilyn Rondeau,  Official Reviewer for [...] ----	2004-07-04
605575:US	45284807	R24H2K3PWIN4GQ	0553584979	618437945	The Last Mermaid	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Totally Awesome Love Stories!	This is an amazing tale set in three separate time periods and linked together by the prologue that explains the myth and how the curse came to be as the original mermaid of Kell lost her one true love and how her descendants all fought and found their way to discovering their destinies and true love.<br /><br />531 a.d. --- The Picts ambushed Aedan, a Prince of the Isles who would one day be King.  Mortally wounded he was then shipped out to the middle of the ocean near the mysterious island of Kell, dumped overboard and believed to have drowned.  Actually, he did drown, but through the enchanted ministrations of the siren Iona, who lived on  the enchanted island of Kell, Aedan was restored back to life.  Love blossoms with exquisite sensuality between the two, yet Aedan felt impelled to build a vessel to return to his home and save his people knowing that he would be leaving a part of his soul behind with Iona.  Deliberating over the knowledge that a slow death would occur should she leave the island of Kell, Iona follows Aedan to inform him that she would be having his child only to find that once again, Aedan was betrayed, a prisoner in his own castle and near death. Risking her own life by leaving the magical waters of Kell, Ione would  save Aedan once again, but could she survive herself?  - Thrilling, with intense action and sensuality.<br />1721: Ronan MacMhuirich, Earl of Kell, mysterious and beloved laird of his clan is the target of an unlikely assassin. Rarely appearing in the London social circles he and his clansmen traveled to the city to try and discover who was attempting to kill him.  Searching for an assassin he discovered instead a mysterious and beautiful woman from an exotic land. Leila, not only a skilled assassin, but also gifted with `sight' that could prove to be much more dangerous to Ronan than any assassins weapon.  Irresistibly drawn to one another, the beautiful would-be slayer and Ronan (a male siren) would discover a magic more powerful than either of their gifts - the magic of love found only by true soul mates.  - Very ORIGINAL, passionate and sultry!<br />2004:  Ruri Kell, is still dealing with the unexpected death of her parents when several things happen. First she receives a very old silver locket; discovers she has inherited an island no one knew existed; and a devastatingly handsome Scot, Dr. Iain MacInnes, has arrived at her door offering her an astronomical amount of money to buy the island.  The one condition of the sale is that she must travel to the island (she who is deathly afraid of water) and `see' it first before selling.  Unknown to Ruri was that she was the last descendant of the Kell's, and knew nothing of her father's family history.  Iain had been waiting several lifetimes for her and for himself too and would only be free to love when she could `remember' who and what she really was.<br />All three stories/books were very original, sensual and passionate love stories, my favorites being Aedan and Ronan's stories.  Ms. Abe is a favorite author of mine and it has been a long time between books.  I am delighted to say this was well worth the wait and  I heartily recommend this for lovers of this fantasy genre as an enjoyable and very original  read. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---l than either of their gifts - the magic of love found only by true soul mates.  - Very ORIGINAL, passionate and sultry!<br />2004:  Ruri Kell, is still dealing with the unexpected death of her parents when several things happen. First she receives a very old silver locket; discovers she has inherited an island no one knew existed; and a devastatingly handsome Scot, Dr. Iain MacInnes, has arrived at her door offering her an astronomical amount of money to buy the island.  The one condition of the sale is that she must travel to the island (she who is deathly afraid of water) and `see' it first before selling.   Unknown to Ruri was that she was the last descendant of the Kell's, and knew nothing of her father's family history.  Iain had been waiting several lifetimes for her and for himself too and would only be free to love when she could `remember' who and what she really was.  <br />All three stories/books were very original, sensual and passionate love stories, my favorites being Aedan and Ronan's stories.   Ms. Abe is a favorite author of mine and it has been a long time between books.  I am delighted to say this was well worth the wait and  I heartily recommend this for lovers of this fantasy genre as an enjoyable and very original  read. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-07-02
607638:US	45284807	R11BZRIMIQB172	0373293143	800276799	West of Heaven	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Outstanding Inspirational Writing	Setting - New Mexico, 1885 --- Married one week, now a widow and kneeling over the body of her dead husband Hank, Jayne Dawson was perturbed and didn't need the despicable looks she was getting from Ethan Trent.  Too bad, that her husband had chosen Ethan's barn to die in,  but a little bit of compassion would have been a nice thing, unfortunately, it was not forthcoming from the unkempt and furious looking man who'd found Hank's body in his precious barn.  The last thing he wanted was to help her, but he's not so heartless to turn her away when he discovers that she's pregnant, and pursued by a vicious killer.Be that as it may, the fates intervened, with a blizzard that forces them to endure one another's company.<br /> Jayne Dawson, a dressmaker by trade, has never seen such an unkempt and miserable human being with such bad manners yet would soon discover that underneath was a man, who if given a chance, had a remarkable ability to love. It was providence that brought them together to lean on one another and deal with the dangers of the present, and the tragedy of Ethan's past as both are given a second chance at love, if only -- they would both take a chance.<br />This story of second chances is the second book I have had the pleasure of reading by this very inspirational author.  Her characters are real people that are given emotional depth, and believability.  With subtle inspiration, she shows that with real tragedy that there is always hope and states it with the reverend's words of  \\"Hope is a rope.  Tie a knot and hang on!\\"  With a deft hand she creates the moods of tension, danger, and makes you feel good with the final and long awaited embrace.  This is an author who writes with heart, and articulates well a clear understanding of human feelings and frailties that readers should totally enjoy. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ----	2004-07-01
612386:US	45284807	R21L0QOUWWS0AF	0451208587	543688963	Lavender Blue (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Magical and delightful	Setting - Regency England 1813 ---  Lady Anthea Wintour was once deeply in love with the Duke of Chavanage, Jovian Cathness and they both happily planned to be married. Then out of the blue, Jovian turned to drink for no apparent reason and it was a rarity to ever find him sober. Rumors abounded of his drunken displays and even stranger behavior with even sightings of him flying up to second story windows.<br />At about the same time, Anthea's father remarried, then his bride died, and in his grief he left the country sending his newly acquired step-daughter Corrine to live with Anthea. After Corrine's arrival, Jovian and his new neighbor, Erebus Lethe, seem to continually cross their paths. Strange occurrences start to happen beginning with a posy of fresh lavender given to Anthea in the middle of winter by an unusually sober Jovian along with a strange warning. Jovian, the man whose very kiss sends her sailing over the rooftops, makes Anthea realize that he is the only man she will ever love even if he has broken her heart with his terrible behaviour.  As the strange happenings begin to take on sinister overtones danger takes on new meaning. Anthea realizes Jovian is the only person who will be able to stop the insanity and save her step-sister's life.<br />There are more and more twists and turns in this short and delightful little regency than one can shake a stick at!  It is my first Sandra Heath novel but definitely not the last, as she mixes in romance, magic, and ancient myths into this one brilliant little book.  Talk about original!  Jovian is total mystery and divine hero and  in addition, you are treated to a non-stop action page-turner that will have you panting for more and rushing to the bookstore to discover more gems penned by this outstanding talent.  Do yourself a favor and put a little bit of magic in your life and this novel in your beach bag! --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-06-28
613263:US	45284807	R1FT7NCE3J8YQ4	0060561432	184209709	Miranda Blue Calling	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Original Plot	Miranda Blue is a book I picked out thinking it would be humorous and light, and up to a point I was not disappointed - well possibly for the first chapter.  Instead I found that our heroine is a woman, like a lot of us, who have a tendency in falling for the wrong man.  Finally, after expressing the wrong sentiment in trying to break off a relationship, she's left both physically beaten and emotionally battered. She then decides to take off to a remote spot in Otnip, Colorado where she has promised herself a moratorium on any involvement with the male species. Starting up a business she could operate from home-- calling and checking on the elderly and homebound -- Miranda has successfully secluded herself with only one neighbor to contend with.  Unfortunately that one neighbor, Billy Steadman, just happens to be a handsome devil with a charming way about him.  Billy himself had chosen to isolate himself, after his loving wife had died nine years earlier.  Now, after seeing Miranda, Billy was ready to reenter the world of the living, only Miranda was doing her best at keeping him out.<br />Thinking originally that this would be more of a humorous chick-lit type, I was treated to a more poignant and thoughtful tale.  Miranda, was a wounded soul, very cautious after failing at relationships with men.  Over the phone, she could be more open, yet she still hid and held herself back.  It took the combined efforts of some of her elderly clients and friends of Billy to finally bridge over the misconceptions that both held of one anther as they slowly (ever so slowly) came together.  While I did find this an interesting and original plot - it's lack of action made it a much slower read than I would like. The originality of Miranda's business - touching base with the elderly - I found quite admirable though, so for those looking for something a little bit more original than the norm would enjoy this.  ---  Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-06-27
614840:US	45284807	R3IG4M3Q6YYNFT	0821774123	572094693	Lady Scandal (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beautiful - Second Chance  at Love Story	Setting, France 1803 ---  The widow Lady Sandel, Alexandria Chetwynd and her niece Diana had been visiting friends in the French countryside when upon arriving back to their townhouse in Paris they discovered that war had been declared and as English citizens they were wanted by the French officials.  With nothing left after the soldier's destruction and looting of their home, they re-boarded their coach and set out for the port of Calais.  In another part of Paris, Paxten Marsett, after being shot by an irate paramour who unfortunately for him was the wife of a French General, was also desperately trying to leave Paris and head for the seaports. Some miles out of the city at a rest stop to change horses, their paths would cross and the Lady's maid would be forced by the wounded Paxten to give him her skirts and cape so that, disguised and in the dark he could board the coach and travel along with them. It would be several miles later that the lady's would discover that their `maid' was, not only a `man',  but a man Alexandria had loved and sent away years before.<br />Paxten and Alexandria nicknamed by him, `Lady Scandal', were both bitter over their parting years before, with both thinking they were the injured party and as they raced across the countryside they would both discover that their feelings of long ago were not over, by any means.  At the very core of this story they would have to discover whether the essence of the love they'd once shared so many years before be given a chance to flame again and overcome the shadows and bitterness of their past?<br />The reader will love this exceptional action tale of a desperate and exciting dash across France, as two lovers meet again with Alexandria now free from the responsibilities that once held her back from the man she loved.  The pain of the two protagonists is written with such deep and emotional intensity that it had me sniffling over the intense heartbreak that both felt over their individually perceived betrayals. The non-stop action and sensual imagery penned by this author was simply wonderful and I finished this book in one sitting.  Not only was the love story between the two older protagonists exceptional but watching Diana's character as she grew from young adolescent to young woman along the perilous journey was also a delight.  I can only hope that the author plans to capitalize on this marvelous novel and bring to us a sequel with Diana as the heroine.  This book is one which I highly recommend.  ----  Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...]  ---betrayals. The non-stop action and sensual imagery penned by this author was simply wonderful and I finished this book in one sitting.  Not only was the love story between the two older protagonists exceptional but watching Diana's character as she grew from young adolescent to young woman along the perilous journey was also a delight.  I can only hope that the author plans to capitalize on this marvelous novel and bring to us a sequel with Diana as the heroine.  This book is one which I highly recommend.  ----  Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...]  ---	2004-06-26
618485:US	45284807	R38CUDO937W0YV	0380750082	167649323	The Hidden Heart (Avon Romance)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Tortured Hero - Love Lost, Found and Fought for	Lady Tess Collier, had led a most uncommon life living in some of the world's most unique and wild places as she accompanied her explorer father, the Earl of Morrow, on his many expeditions.  When her father, the Earl, lay dying, he made her promise to return to England and marry well.  He appointed a good friend as trustee over her substantial inheritance and instructed him to enlist the aid of a young sea captain to both sail her home and once there to act as a friendly advisor to investigate and try to guide her in selecting an honorable husband.<br />Gryphon Meridon, was a man with a mysterious past who had lost much in his life when as young boy of 12 his loving family had been massacred in a brutal raid by pirates. The act of piracy had been engineered by a distant cousin who stood to inherit the title and wealth of the Marquess of Ashland -  a title that rightfully belonged to Gryphon.  Carrying an enormous amount of baggage Gryph had not allowed himself to feel love as he'd done some things as a blockade runner and privateer that he'd not been proud of but had served as a necessary means of survival. When he met Tess his heart was immediately engaged from the moment he saw her.  Though placed in the position of keeping unworthy suitors from her door and  knowing that no matter what he felt, he was the most unworthiest of all, Tess managed to wring a proposal from him.  Treacherously betrayed by a vain and selfish woman who told her lies, Tess, somewhat insecure herself, accused Gryph who in shock over the death of a dear friend, could not defend himself.  Tess, hurt and disillusioned, married the one man who Gryph had been trying to protect her from.  Two souls, who truly were meant for one another would then be torn and tossed into a cruel world that only faith and a deep healing love would be able to save.<br />This was a really good, intense and sometimes disturbing love story.  Tess, was a delight, an intrepid explorer in the wilds of a jungle, yet like a lamb led to a slaughter when it came to the `civilized' London ballrooms where danger came in the guise of civility.  Gryph whose life from a very young age had been one long trial of endurance was portrayed as a savvy yet wounded young man who had endured so much loss that guarding his heart against what he surmised would be eventual pain was very disturbing to me.  Adventures and settings to other locales around the world were deliciously described as both protagonists followed each other to try and work things out as danger and treachery followed. This was a well-plotted and proficiently detailed journey of two worthy individuals who through their trials earned the right to happiness.  For those who are looking for a wild and action packed emotional roller coaster ride with a courageous story of love lost and finally found then look no further as this book should satisfy all of those needs in this reissue. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---e a lamb led to a slaughter when it came to the `civilized' London ballrooms where danger came in the guise of civility.  Gryph whose life from a very young age had been one long trial of endurance was portrayed as a savvy yet wounded young man who had endured so much loss that guarding his heart against what he surmised would be eventual pain was very disturbing to me.  Adventures and settings to other locales around the world were deliciously described as both protagonists followed each other to try and work things out as danger and treachery followed. This was a well-plotted and proficiently detailed journey of two worthy individuals who through their trials earned the right to happiness.  For those who are looking for a wild and action packed emotional roller coaster ride with a courageous story of love lost and finally found then look no further as this book should satisfy all of those needs in this reissue. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-06-23
619907:US	45284807	R2SD6X3COXROKF	0451212193	445720659	Wind Walker	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Would seem to be geared towards a younger audience	Setting - Wyoming Territory, 1868 ---  With apprehension  but also excitement, Maggie Tolan and her mother set out from Boston to join her Uncle Patrick on a trek across the west to Oregon.  Along the way, Maggie lost her mother, so now her only living relative was Uncle Patrick, leader of the wagon train.  At the encampment one night there were two visits, one from a local rancher, Archy Parrish, who gave warnings of Indian raiders that would steal white women never to be seen again. The second set of visitors included a very handsome Indian warrior, Wind Walker, who offered genuine friendship and warnings of renegades who had little scruples and less moral values. Both Maggie and Wind Walker would notice one another and both would mark it as a meaningful moment.<br />It would be later, in the dead of night, that Maggie would be forcefully abducted by the unscrupulous rancher Archy where he would hold her prisoner on his ranch to be both mother to his young sons and act as virtual slave to cook for his thirty cowhands.  Uncle Patrick would conduct a search, swearing he wouldn't leave without her and enlisting the aid of Wind Walker after being turned down for any assistance from the unscrupulous rancher Archy.  Naturally, Wind Walker, rescues Maggie and as they soon declare their undying love for one another, they set out to teach Archy a lesson he richly deserved.<br />I had seen many titles under this authors name and expected a really good American West historical romance, and while the story was good, it seemed to me that the dialogs were somewhat `off' for the period and especially for the main character Wind Walker.  Had it not been for the brief culmination of the two protagonists making love, I could even suggest this as a very good `young adult' romance.  As it stands though, I really do feel that this romance is more suited towards a younger audience as the ` sexual act' was not as graphic as some and on the mild side.  I guess that what I really could not get past was the precise way Wind Walker was speaking unless he'd had a quality English education, which was not indicated in any background of his upbringing.  It was a very quick read with not a lot of background and that was quickly glossed over with very little descriptive prose.  Not a bad read, but not something that I think a voracious historical romance reader could sink their teeth into. --- Marilyn Rondeau (...)t get past was the precise way Wind Walker was speaking unless he'd had a quality English education, which was not indicated in any background of his upbringing.  It was a very quick read with not a lot of background and that was quickly glossed over with very little descriptive prose.  Not a bad read, but not something that I think a voracious historical romance reader could sink their teeth into. --- Marilyn Rondeau (...)	2004-06-22
636401:US	45284807	R3DR01DX4D3EB6	0451209478	760443179	The Trouble With Magic	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Magical, Sexy and Totally Entertaining!	Sit back in an easy chair and be prepared to be entertained as Ms. Rice takes you back into the creative and enchanting world of the Malcolm / Ives family with this latest entry featuring Lady Felicity Malcolm Childe and the youngest of the Ives brothers - Ewen. Most of the Malcolm women are born with special gifts and Felicity is no exception other than the fact that she hates her gift and finds it very difficult to control.  She lives a very protected life as her extraordinary tactile powers have been known to shock her into a faint when the thing or person she touches has seen or known violence/hatred/rage, etc..  When she fell in a dead faint from a vision induced from the touch of the suitor her family had hoped she would marry she decided to find the means to rid herself of her gift. To do this, she needed to locate a special journal written by a Malcolm ancestor that would give her the `recipe' to accomplish it.  Felicity and her aura-sensing sister, Christina made their escape from the confining security of their father's yacht and ran off to the city of Edinburgh.  Along the way they ran into their brother-in-law, the youngest and handsomest of the Ives brothers - inventor Ewen Ives - who felt compelled into escorting the two innocents on their journey.<br />Mistakenly, Ewen touched Felicity and she realized that his touch didn't hurt her, rather it seemed to bring her to a more calmer and secure place. Ewen, initially attracted to Felicity by her intelligence and strength, discovered that once she shed the heavy coverings she normally wore, was an ethereal beauty as well.  Even though he was becoming more and more attracted to Felicity, Ewen intended to marry a widowed heiress, regretting the fact that Felicity was an innocent and that he had nothing to offer her other than huge debts that were the result of one of his inventions that caused a flood.  Felicity knew that Ewen was being cheated, framed for a crime he wasn't responsible for and knew she had to use her gift, no matter the ramifications,  in order to help save the man who had given her the insights to accept her gift and whom she had fallen in love with.<br />Once again, Ms. Rice has created another totally delightful tale developing these very unique and wonderful characters from the inside out presenting the reader with a perfectly complementary couple in a purely soul satisfying story.  Ewen's strength and understanding helped Felicity to understand the truly great `gift' she possessed.  Showing her to enjoy her tactile gift Ewen ended up the recipient of a man's dream come true as Felicity welcomed and embraced her sensual awareness. This is a series that has each book standing on it's own with a wonderful cast of secondary characters that the reader will embrace in their hearts.  And yes, I am still waiting patiently for the secret behind the mysterious Ives cousin(?) Aidan Dougal!  Magical, sexy, and totally entertaining - Yes, yes, YES!  ---  Do I recommend it - Most Assuredly! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---o use her gift, no matter the ramifications,  in order to help save the man who had given her the insights to accept her gift and whom she had fallen in love with.<br />Once again, Ms. Rice has created another totally delightful tale developing these very unique and wonderful characters from the inside out presenting the reader with a perfectly complementary couple in a purely soul satisfying story.  Ewen's strength and understanding helped Felicity to understand the truly great `gift' she possessed.  Showing her to enjoy her tactile gift Ewen ended up the recipient of a man's dream come true as Felicity welcomed and embraced her sensual awareness. This is a series that has each book standing on it's own with a wonderful cast of secondary characters that the reader will embrace in their hearts.  And yes, I am still waiting patiently for the secret behind the mysterious Ives cousin(?) Aidan Dougal!   Magical, sexy, and totally entertaining - Yes, yes, YES!  ---  Do I recommend it - Most Assuredly! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-06-09
639185:US	45284807	R2XX06FVHV432X	0425196836	971409045	Beauty in Black (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Very Impressive Sequel - Great Characterizations	Setting, London 1817 ---  Marianne Hughes has been a widow for some time now and after marriage to a very young and immature man, her notion of marriage life left much to be desired. Fortunately, she was left somewhat comfortable which afforded her to live a genteel if not wealthy life and not to resort to becoming someone's governess. However, as a respectable widow, she was approached by her in-laws to chaperone the comely Miss Crookshanks' come-out in London.<br /> John Sinclair, Marquess of Gillingham, due to a scarred countenance from the ravages of a childhood case of smallpox, has lived life as something of a hermit, avoiding crowds, hardly ever venturing out to the city or out of the dark, but rather than leave his younger hated brother as his heir, he would make the supreme sacrifice and  a quick trip to London with the hope to entice a young miss to become his wife and produce an heir.  He never expect love, but thought his title and wealth might prove to be enough incentive to convince a woman to bear his child.<br />The comely and spoiled Miss Louisa Crookshank, had heard of the beastly looking Marquis through the gossips and knew he was in the city to find a bride.  She had been sorely disappointed in love by a childhood neighbor and friend who she'd expected would ask for her hand and rather than admit defeat, would do her best to snare a title -more for spite than for love.  The Marquis was her target and Louisa very forwardly made his acquaintance, but it was Marianne that John was attracted to. Thinking Marianne was married he dutifully paid his attentions to Louisa before he was made aware of Marianne's single status. Somehow, Louisa contrived to have him awkwardly state his intentions which she misconstrued into a marriage proposal which she promptly accepted.<br />In this delightful story and sequel to DEAR IMPOSTER, there are villains and intrigue as well as a dysfunctional family background, making BEAUTY IN BLACK a wonderful read. There is some very nice sensuality felt in this book, however when Marianne and John both finally admit to their mutual attraction, the passion is extremely palatable and well worth the wait - wow!  The intrigue of who was trying to cause harm to Louisa - or so everyone thought - was a light little mystery, but I was more impressed with the secondary storyline of the relationship between two brothers who were pitted against one another from childhood by a vicious father that I found to extremely poignant.  Nevertheless, I found that the plot, the romance, the intrigue all blended together into a book that captured my imagination from start to finish. I highly recommend this book. --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...] ---ome very nice sensuality felt in this book, however when Marianne and John both finally admit to their mutual attraction, the passion is extremely palatable and well worth the wait - wow!  The intrigue of who was trying to cause harm to Louisa - or so everyone thought - was a light little mystery, but I was more impressed with the secondary storyline of the relationship between two brothers who were pitted against one another from childhood by a vicious father that I found to extremely poignant.  Nevertheless, I found that the plot, the romance, the intrigue all blended together into a book that captured my imagination from start to finish. I highly recommend this book. --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...] ---	2004-06-07
640378:US	45284807	R17A9LXZ4BJI2	0451206754	793577851	Must Be Magic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding Character Development in an Awesome Series	Setting - England, 1753 ---- Lady Leila `Malcolm' Staines has always felt like the odd-man out when it came to her family because as far as she could see, she didn't seem to have any discernible special `gifts' like the other Malcolm women did.  Now that she was a widow, she finally felt the freedom to do as she wished, to make her mark so to speak.  She did have a gift though, that of a wonderful `nose' and she wanted to create scents that would be totally unique by growing and crossbreeding flowers.  In order to expand upon this plan she needed the expertise of the greatest agronomist in England, Dunstan Ives. Because historically, Malcolm women and Ives men mix like oil and water - convincing the very angry and volatile Dunstan would take a minor miracle. When they both met though, it wasn't only Leila who experienced an olfactory scent of pure lust but Dunstan as well.  With Dunstan trying to curb any type of involvement with women since the murder of his wife Celia - a murder most thought he committed -  he was determined to stay away. Circumstances changed and badly needing not only the money, but a job, and land to plant his experimental seeds on, he negotiates a deal with Lady Leila.  For Leila, to become involved with Dunstan or marry, she would lose her long sought independence.  But, would that be so bad as over the course of time both would succumb to the lusty feelings they inspired in one another and as they began to grow their individual crops - his turnips, her flowers - they each began to see and respect each other for their individual uniqueness and the trust and respect each earned for one another turned into a most marvelous love story.<br />This was another fabulous story featuring more of the marvelous Malcolm/Ives families that is a pure joy to read.  Yes, there is a bit of magic that some might think of as cataloging this book as a paranormal but don't be turned off by this as it is so much more.  Dunstan and Leila are both terrific characters who grow into each other.  The confusion Dunstan felt as he was attracted to two different women (Leila and Lily) until he discovered they were one and the same; his undeniable love for his son Griffith; and his total support of Leila as she experimented with her `gift'; right up to the final realization that for the sake of those he loved he must clear his name in order to be able to have some kind of a life was a wonderfully drawn portrayal.  Outstanding character development!  Both Leila and Dunstan are unique and marvelous characters and their respective families are a total delight...  Fans of Ms. Rice will surely not be disappointed in this brilliant and refreshing series. ---- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---ers who grow into each other.  The confusion Dunstan felt as he was attracted to two different women (Leila and Lily) until he discovered they were one and the same; his undeniable love for his son Griffith; and his total support of Leila as she experimented with her `gift'; right up to the final realization that for the sake of those he loved he must clear his name in order to be able to have some kind of a life was a wonderfully drawn portrayal.  Outstanding character development!    Both Leila and Dunstan are unique and marvelous characters and their respective families are a total delight...  Fans of Ms. Rice will surely not be disappointed in this brilliant and refreshing series. ---- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]   ---	2004-06-06
644809:US	45284807	R24LT1DX6ZKJP2	0451402987	77373384	Touched by Magic (Onyx)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Charming Regency	Setting - England, 1816 --- Lady Cassandra Howard, was the daughter of a Marquess, though her upbringing was not what one would expect for one of that noble a birth.  In fact she had never had a proper come out due to the fact that her mother was a semi invalid and her father and brother had been bringing her into the worst gaming hell's since the age of twelve. After her father's death, life with her older brother was becoming increasingly disgusting to her especially when he was about to sell her into a marriage with a dissolute yet wealthy lord.  Running away from Rupert, the man her brother was going to give her to, Cassandra ran straight into the arms of Wyatt Mannering, Earl of Merrick, once a neighbor and whose apples she once stole. She pleaded with him to help her escape the ball before the odious Rupert could corner her.<br />Cassandra had indeed grown up in the intervening years and Wyatt, known throughout the ton as `Saint' Wyatt, was not totally immune to the young lady's obvious charms. Cassandra sensed this attraction, and knowing what a witch his intended was whispered into his ear that he could do much better.  Cassandra truly was an innocent in the ways of love, yet she also knew that the only way out of her proposed betrothal dilemma was to somehow trick Wyatt into offering for her.  Innocently, she would arrange to have them be caught in a compromising situation, but what wasn't factored into her plan, were the honeyed kisses that would rock her world and make Wyatt feel as though he'd been touched by magic.<br />Cassandra was an interesting heroine. Although both her father and brother had thrust her into an unorthodox life style, dragging her along on their gaming ventures, in the area of love and sex, she truly was a clueless innocent.  Wyatt, on the other hand, had the experience but had never come up against a free-spirit like Cassandra.  Discovering what her childhood had been like, he was at once ready to champion her, but found that his dictates were one sure way of her doing the exact opposite. This was a charming little  read although it did tend to bog down a bit in the middle.  Cassandra's innocence was so sweetly depicted though that I would recommend to bring it along for a relaxing day at the beach or out in the backyard. ---Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---is dictates were one sure way of her doing the exact opposite. This was a charming little  read although it did tend to bog down a bit in the middle.  Cassandra's innocence was so sweetly depicted though that I would recommend to bring it along for a relaxing day at the beach or out in the backyard. ---Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-06-03
644835:US	45284807	RURN66DB8M8Q	0451200497	572356460	Merely Magic	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Story - Interesting Characters	Setting - England 1750 ---  Ninian Malcolm lived in a cottage on the outskirts of the village of Wystan, and that one word - outskirts - more or less described her life up to that point.  When her grandmother had been alive she hadn't been quite so lonely.  Ninian didn't mind so much the feeling of being kept at a distance, especially where it was a well-known fact that she was a witch -a witch whose healing talents were gladly accepted, even if she was not. As a healer, she had the ability to `read' or `empathize' with a person's innermost feelings, so it was disconcerting, to say the least when the newly arrived Drago, Earl of Ives could completely block both his feelings and presence from her.  Dark, mysterious, and totally logical, Drago did not accept the unexplainable- nor was he about to believe in witches or anything that reeked of the supernatural.<br />Meeting this `moonchild' on the feast of Beltane, would forever change both their lives as they were both inexplicitly drawn together into an attraction that according to legend should end in disaster, should the Ives and Malcolms mate.  With the interference of Drago's cousin Sarah, who dabbled in matchmaking and aphrodisiacs the die would be cast and whether it was Sarah's interference, or pure unadulterated lust -- the passionate mating of these two polar opposites would forever change the course of their lives into one fantastic and `merely magical' event.<br />I truly loved this story.  The historical significance of the Malcolm/Ives mating, Drago and Ninian's contrasting personalities and especially their totally mesmerizing families consisting of Ninian's witchy aunts, and cousins, and Drago's assortment of brothers, both legitimate and not - what a circus! This was such a distinctive and unusual read - even if Drago's stubbornness made me want to slap him along the side of his head to wake him up to other possibilities! Whew!  Unfortunately, I have rated this a trifle lower based on the historical aspect, only because of the references made to helium which was not discovered until 1895 and seemed out of place in the 1750 setting of the book.  Nonetheless, I am very much looking forward to reading more from this author on how this odd assortment of relatives (Dunstan, Adonis, Ewan, etc.) get on with the sequels in this planned series. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---spect, only because of the references made to helium which was not discovered until 1895 and seemed out of place in the 1750 setting of the book.    Nonetheless, I am very much looking forward to reading more from this author on how this odd assortment of relatives (Dunstan, Adonis, Ewan, etc.) get on with the sequels in this planned series. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-06-03
653589:US	45284807	R3LRDUIYEPPCVR	0060577487	491139140	Lady Whistledown Strikes Back	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Superior Effort in Blending into a Marvelous Anthlogy	FIRST KISS, THE - Julia Quinn - Peter Thompson is home from Waterloo, one of the fortunate to survive and wants nothing more than to settle down with a biddable wife on a small farm somewhere.  His prospects are not that good, being the second son of a minor baron, he is in London to find a suitable bride with a relatively good dowry.  As it happens he is at the most sought after dinner party put on by Lady Greely, he comes face to face with Lady Mathilde `Tilly' Howard, sister of his best friend Harry who didn't survive.  He knew by her close resemblance to Harry who she was without being introduced, but more than that he was attracted by her sincere and sweet manner. Knowing that she was daughter of an Earl and an heiress to boot he knew he'd have to look elsewhere or be labeled a fortune hunter.  Tilly attracted as she was by this handsome, intelligent and honorable hunk thought to change his mind!  Totally charming, very cute and funny  - 5*<br />The LAST TEMPTATION - Mia Ryan  ---  Isabella `Bella' Martin has been Lady Greely's companion and party planner for the last ten years and has been quite adept at hiding in the shadows. A spinster fast approaching her 30th birthday and never been kissed which she vows to change before that fateful birthday.  Lord Anthony Roxbury, 37 and heir to the Earldom has no intention to marry in spite of the weekly sessions with his father continually stressing the reasons why it is his duty to marry and procreate. Having too much fun it is the last thing on his mind until he mistakes Bella for one of his assignations and she not only gets a kiss but a relatively nice grope before she shockingly rears back and almost breaks his nose.  Through the blood and the apologies, Anthony discovers that this very self deprecating spinster is a breath of fresh air and decides he must see more (and more) of her.  Wonderfully romantic -  5*<br />The BEST OF BOTH WORLDS - Suzanne Enoch ---  Charlotte Birling is allowed no chance at all of ever being mentioned in Lady Whistledown's column, ever since she was seven and her cousin had married in haste and then been deserted by Lord Easterly.  But a girl could dream and the dream rode by her house every morning on his way to Gentlemen Jacksons.  Her dream was the very handsome Earl Xavier Matson who since coming to town was making a name for himself with his womanizing exploits.  When Xavier chances to overhear Charlotte at a function standing up against Lady Greely for accusing someone of stealing her bracelet without so much as a shred of evidence, Xavier is intrigued.  No. she might have been plaine and  she certainly wasn't the type he'd been pursuing in a search for a wife but there was something about her that did kindle his interest - an interest that Lord and Lady Birling were adamant of nipping in the bud.  - But alas, we all know that love will win out!  -  Totally awesome for such a short novella!  5*<br />The ONLY ONE FOR ME - Karen Hawkins --- Sophia (cousin of Charlotte Birling Throckmorton Hampton, Viscountess Easterly was abandoned by her husband Max, the Viscount Easterly twelve years earlier.  Abandoned after she failed to show him support when he was accused of cheating. Max's pride would not allow him to deny what he felt was an insult to his honor. On their brother Richard's deathbed, Sophia and her brother John Throckmorton, Earl of Standwick would discover that Richard was the real culprit who allowed Max to shoulder the blame.  After not seeing him for 12 years other than missives from his solicitor, Max showed up at Lady Greely's shocking Sophia.  His mere presence was all it took to re-ignite the passion both held for each other. When the blame for the theft of Lady Greely's bracelet threatened to implicate Max, Sophia was determined to discover the real culprit, if only to atone for her lack of faith that caused him to walk away so many years ago - but also - could it be she still cared!!!  Sweetly endearing, snappy dialog and a lotof sensual teasing....  5*<br />OVERALL - In this sparkling anthology, these marvelous authors all picked up a thread on the mystery of the missing bracelet to blend them all into one full length story with several sub-plots each with its own delightful romance. Although it would be hard to pick my favorite, I think it would be Enoch's story with Charlotte solving the problem of her parents objections of Earl Matson so very cleverly in front of the guests at the ball!  This is not to say that they were not all delightful - just my personal favorite!  A superior effort by all authors and one I highly recommend. --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for  [...]  ---and a lot of sensual teasing....  5*  <br />OVERALL - In this sparkling anthology, these marvelous authors all picked up a thread on the mystery of the missing bracelet to blend them all into one full length story with several sub-plots each with its own delightful romance. Although it would be hard to pick my favorite, I think it would be Enoch's story with Charlotte solving the problem of her parents objections of Earl Matson so very cleverly in front of the guests at the ball!  This is not to say that they were not all delightful - just my personal favorite!  A superior effort by all authors and one I highly recommend. --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for  [...]  ---	2004-05-26
657444:US	45284807	R3DZ644XDZBFI5	0505525801	220130407	Kissed by Magic	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Fun Regency with a Fantasy Twist	In this debut novel the author has created some memorable pixie sprites that will gladden your heart and put a smile on your face.  Allegro and Largo are the pixie faeries who have been assigned an almost impossible task - coerce the Earl of Falconwood, aka \\"the Black Falcon\\" to fall in love with Phaidra Moore, a 27 year old hoyden spinster.  Convincing Phaidra that Kain was her `destiny' was a huge undertaking in itself. She realized that even if she was strongly attracted to the Falcon, their stations in life were eons apart.<br />As luck would have it, Kain at least was interested in the marriage if only for a purely selfish reason of gaining Phaidra's dowry - the formula for her Nottingham blue dye. Denying his attraction, and convincing himself he was not worthy to be loved would be the pixies biggest problem in trying to convince Kain that the attraction he felt for his indomitable wife was more than lust but a truely destined and everlasting love.  Phaidra, in spite of the rumors was quick to recognize his goodness and up for the challenge to systematically begin to change the general public opinion of her husband's notorious evil reputation.  Convincing Kain that he was not only worthy of her love, and not responsible for his brothers death would take all of the pixie's and Phaidra's combined strength before he would allow himself to be kissed by the magic!<br />This was a darling debut tale of a regency era fantasy.  The author's creatively humorous and often combative pixies were a hoot and at times upstaged the two main protagonists, Phaidra and Kain.  Allegro and Largo were so opposite in nature that I could only liken them to the original Odd Couple - Felix and Oscar.  The romance was sweet and I liked that Phaidra was such a strong character and didn't let anything deter her from going the distance to prove to Kain that he was not the ogre he imagined himself to be. What was really cute was the way Kain thought he would shock Phaidra with romantic overtures and she would turn the tables on him with her more than accommodating participation sending him running.  This was an endearing tale that readers will enjoy in this newly created fun world of pixies and sprites. - Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---vertures and she would turn the tables on him with her more than accommodating participation sending him running.  This was an endearing tale that readers will enjoy in this newly created fun world of pixies and sprites. - Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-23
661257:US	45284807	R1B3GF25SA77T6	0843948884	688179077	Fallen (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Totally charming  and extremely enjoyable!	Setting - England, 1831--- Izzy Temple is a rather non-descript and plain young woman who has convinced herself that she would never marry. After all she knew was very plain, but she was intelligent and she had a dream. Of course, her dream was not like the one she was experiencing at the moment with someone nibbling at her neck, caressing her body, and causing all kinds of delightful feelings in the pit of her stomach - but wait a minute, this was no dream! Screaming out and reaching for a candelabrum next to her bed she had just knocked her assailant senseless as the door to her bedchamber was thrown open. Several people came running to her aid.  Among them was the fantastically beautiful Lady Claire Bottomly, whose horrifying expression of shock and embarrassment made Izzy realize in an instant that Eppingham, Julian Rowley had mistaken her room for his assignation with the much more desirable Lady Claire.  As Julian's father came through the door expressing his disgust with his son, Izzy made the split second decision to protect both Julian and Lady Clair by claiming a lover's quarrel rather than everyone's assumption that he was raping her. Actually, fessing up as being ruined would solve a big problem for her.  As the days progressed Izzy was quite pleased with herself that she was to be labeled a `fallen' woman - this way she could set up her own household living alone as an `independent' woman until she would eventually leave England for America!<br />Unfortunately, Julian in trying to accommodate his father's wishes (and believe me his father ends up being a real beastly, unloving, horrid father)  agrees to marry the plain little spinster or he would be disinherited. He is astounded when Izzy promptly turns him down, but after he explained his situation, soft-hearted Izzy agreed to a fake betrothal that she could end within a suitable frame of time, even if she really and truly would love to marry the handsome Lord she was fast losing her heart to.  Originally, Julian thought himself immune to the plain spinster, but as he spent time with her - originally as part of the `deception' - he realized that she wasn't plain at all, and when he was with her his heart felt lighter - could this be love?<br />This was a totally delightful and satisfying read.  I don't remember enjoying a heroine so much as Izzy (sweetly nicknamed Isadorable by Julian) and her matter of fact, down to earth outlook on life.  Her going away present to her horrid little cousin Sheldon was a hoot and the way she stood up against and `dressed down' Julian's father was magnificent!  The reader is just bound to love her transformation from plain Jane to Isadorable. If I have any complaints at all, it would be that the secondary characters (Eric, Lady Claire, cousin Millie, etc.) were so endearing that I feel bereft in not seeing the story continue into a series.... I just hated to see this end even though the author does tie all the ends up with a neat little epilogue.  For a debut novel this one is most deservedly worthy of the RITA it has won.  Totally charming  and extremely enjoyable! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---lly, Julian thought himself immune to the plain spinster, but as he spent time with her - originally as part of the `deception' - he realized that she wasn't plain at all, and when he was with her his heart felt lighter - could this be love?<br />This was a totally delightful and satisfying read.  I don't remember enjoying a heroine so much as Izzy (sweetly nicknamed Isadorable by Julian) and her matter of fact, down to earth outlook on life.  Her going away present to her horrid little cousin Sheldon was a hoot and the way she stood up against and `dressed down' Julian's father was magnificent!  The reader is just bound to love her transformation from plain Jane to Isadorable. If I have any complaints at all, it would be that the secondary characters (Eric, Lady Claire, cousin Millie, etc.) were so endearing that I feel bereft in not seeing the story continue into a series.... I just hated to see this end even though the author does tie all the ends up with a neat little epilogue.   For a debut novel this one is most deservedly worthy of the RITA it has won.  Totally charming  and extremely enjoyable! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-20
663074:US	45284807	R112DR2QKNWU2O	0451211839	152389042	Skylark (Company of Rogues)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not a lot of action but thoughtful and a sincere romance	Setting - England 1816 --- With another addition to her highly popular Rogue series she has given us Sir Stephen Ball's story and romance. A romance that for him was six years in the making might not have been if not for the fickle hand of fate that set Laura Gardeyne free once more after the untimely death of her husband, Hal.  Stephen had once asked Laura to marry him, to wait until he could finish his schooling and be able to provide her with a better life, but then that Laura had been dazzled by the heir to a Viscount, his wealth and zest for living. Back then Laura had been the darling of the ton, and somewhat hurt Stephen had nicknamed her Lady Skylark -flitting to one good time after another. For Laura, the hated moniker was a slap that hurt coming from a man she'd grown up with and they had avoided each other ever since.<br />Knowing that Laura was coming to the end of her mourning period, Stephen chose the time to once more make his bid for the love he'd never gotten over, but when he arrived to begin his courting, he found a frightened young woman.  Laura, was fearful that someone was trying to eliminate her son Harry, now heir to her father-in-law's title, estate and riches - and she was almost positive that the person with the most to gain was her brother-in-law Jack Gardeyne who now wanted that title for his newborn infant son.  With her father-in-law ill,  and discovering a mysterious letter that hinted that the rightful heir was alive, Laura enlists Stephen's help to discover if he really were alive.  If so he would be the rightful heir leaving her son Harry safe from being eliminated by his uncle. Along the way both Stephen and Laura began to see the changes that time had made to each other and they began a sweet and passionate romance.<br />Okay, this was not quite up to par with regard to the action I've come to expect from Jo Beverley but that is not to say that it was boring or  without  merit.  Laura was not the most memorable heroine I've come across either, but one has to give her points in the mothering department.  Also, this was not your usual pitiful widow where the husband was not a nice guy, he was true to his station in life (a true Corinthian) but a lusty and thoughtful lover for a woman who undeniably found their bed sport to be quite satisfying.  Stephen who was portrayed as studious and serious as a youth just needed for Laura to grow and discover what was really important in her life.  There was a great deal of sensual tension, but you will wait until practically the end of the book before seeing anything happen. (These two were just too polite!)  The ending twist is also an unusual plot device that I've seldom seen used in most regency era plots, but as usual, Beverley jumps right in and comes up with a real zinger!  Bottom line - not as much action as I prefer but a thoughtful and entertaining read. ---- Submitted by Marilyn,  Official Reviewer for [...] ---across either, but one has to give her points in the mothering department.  Also, this was not your usual pitiful widow where the husband was not a nice guy, he was true to his station in life (a true Corinthian) but a lusty and thoughtful lover for a woman who undeniably found their bed sport to be quite satisfying.   Stephen who was portrayed as studious and serious as a youth just needed for Laura to grow and discover what was really important in her life.  There was a great deal of sensual tension, but you will wait until practically the end of the book before seeing anything happen. (These two were just too polite!)  The ending twist is also an unusual plot device that I've seldom seen used in most regency era plots, but as usual, Beverley jumps right in and comes up with a real zinger!  Bottom line - not as much action as I prefer but a thoughtful and entertaining read. ---- Submitted by Marilyn,  Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-18
666265:US	45284807	R1TCCDI9UP0OG	0451210654	801353308	Winter Fire	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fabulous Georgian Period Malloren Family Addition	Setting - England 1763 ---  In an effort to escape the home of her father and his new wife, Genova Smith found herself accompanying the elderly Trayce ladies,  Lady Calliope and Lady Thalia to Christmas revelries at Rothgar Abbey as their companion.  The tedium of the journey ended abruptly as they stopped to aid another carriage on the road.  Requesting assistance, the woman, identifying herself as Mrs. Dash,  requested that Genova transport the woman's child and his wet nurse to the next inn to await the arrival of Mr. Dash.  Mr. Dash turned out to be the dashing and devastatingly handsome Marquess of Ashart, who just happened to be the great nephew of the Ladies Calliope and Thalia.  Handsome as he was, Genova was disturbed that he refused to acknowledge the child as his and seemed more intent on vexing her with some very disturbing kisses. After discovering that his Aunts were on their way to Rothgar Abbey to visit his mortal enemy and cousin, the Marquess of Rothgar, Ash agreed to accompany them the following morning.<br />Unfortunately, through a series of mishaps, the next morning found both both Ash and Genova in a compromising situation, which was witnessed by two other travelers. Lady Thalia quickly covered up the imminent ruin of Genova's virtuous reputation by claiming that Genova and Ash were secretly engaged.  Agreeing to carrying out the faade of a loving couple for a few days before a public breakup, Genova found that there was more to the man than his purposeful attempt to destroy his mortal enemy.  While playing at pretending to be in love, Genova discovered that her feelings for him had changed. Freeing him would be the right thing to do but it would leave her with a broken heart as she had fallen hard and deep in love with the dashing devil.<br />Although, this was Ashart's story, featured prominently as a secondary but important player in the story, was Rothgar and of course, he was as intoxicating and sexy as always. So, in effect, what the author has given us are two heroes in one amazingly wonderful story! Discovering and proving paternity of the child was secondary to the building of a peaceful pact of peace between the cousins and the dialogs and verbal duels were fabulous with all three players taking part - Ash, Genova, and Rothgar in this fully robust and skillfully plotted confrontation.  Beverley is a remarkable storyteller who once more brings Georgian England to life with golden prose and emotional feeling into one more beautifully written romance.  Awesome stuff from one of the stellar authors in this genre! --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---author has given us are two heroes in one amazingly wonderful story! Discovering and proving paternity of the child was secondary to the building of a peaceful pact of peace between the cousins and the dialogs and verbal duels were fabulous with all three players taking part - Ash, Genova, and Rothgar in this fully robust and skillfully plotted confrontation.  Beverley is a remarkable storyteller who once more brings Georgian England to life with golden prose and emotional feeling into one more beautifully written romance.  Awesome stuff from one of the stellar authors in this genre! --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-16
667039:US	45284807	RYM4HLEGT84AY	0553585924	976982035	The Sinner (Seducer)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Another Captivating Read from Hunter	Dante Duclairc, beautiful and intoxicatingly handsome rake, has come to the end of his rope.  He has gambled himself so deep into debt he is planning an escape the following morning for the continent before he is thrown into jail. Unfortunately, he has accidentally shot the very lovely and old family friend, Fluer Monley, in her \\"rear nether region\\" (...) - A long story you'll just have to read this for yourself.....  Recognizing that this was the young woman his brother Adrian had jilted some years before, Dante was determined to make sure she was taken care of after  she told him of the circumstances that had driven her to be running through the countryside that evening.  Dante managed, with the help of some friends to fend off her step-father and see to her immediate safety, but ended up in debtors prison himself after putting off his own escape.<br />In order to further delay her step-father's nefarious plans for her, Fleur visits Dante in prison and proposes a `white marriage' arrangement to him.  The deal would be his debts would be paid, and he'd be given an generous annual amount in return for allowing her an independence with no questions asked about her financial and charitable affairs. With very little choice, Dante accepts the arrangement not realizing that the gentle, beautiful Fluer would soon become the one and only most desirous woman he would want - yet didn't want him.  Fluer  who most certainly didn't want intimacy, fought the strange attraction and unusual heated responses Dante caused by his presence. With patience and trust Fluer and Dante began to build a relationship that just might blossom if they could only survive the treachery and attacks meant to destroy the fragile bonds that were being built.<br />In the fourth book of Madeline Hunter's latest regency series (note I say fourth and not last - I'm hoping for more) we see one more member of the Dueling Society get what's coming to him - a partner and soulmate for all times!  Fluer (originally introduced in THE SAINT) was the almost fiance of his brother Adrian. Dante was the fun loving younger son, too beautiful for his own good, masterful lover with no sense of direction.  With Fleur being persecuted by her step-father, Dante found a purpose and the soul searching and deeply sensual attempts in trying to rid Fleur of her fears was beautifully scripted as he tried to win her heart.  While some might find this story slow - to a certain extent - the depth of the feelings was so beautifully scripted that I really didn't mind.  Hunter also introduced us to some new players that just beg to have a story told.  Hopefully one of them will be Dante's friend Ewan McClean.  Bottom line - another satisfying read that I do recommend.  ---Marilyn, (...)iginally introduced in THE SAINT) was the almost fiance of his brother Adrian. Dante was the fun loving younger son, too beautiful for his own good, masterful lover with no sense of direction.  With Fleur being persecuted by her step-father, Dante found a purpose and the soul searching and deeply sensual attempts in trying to rid Fleur of her fears was beautifully scripted as he tried to win her heart.  While some might find this story slow - to a certain extent - the depth of the feelings was so beautifully scripted that I really didn't mind.  Hunter also introduced us to some new players that just beg to have a story told.  Hopefully one of them will be Dante's friend Ewan McClean.  Bottom line - another satisfying read that I do recommend.  ---Marilyn, (...)	2004-05-15
672874:US	45284807	R2WD36ZBJD1R4P	0553585916	249728210	The Charmer (Seducer)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Solid Gold Romance - Divine Hero!	Setting - France and England 1831 ---  In THE CHARMER, this third entry into Ms. Hunter's latest Regency era series I find Hunter back where she belongs - right on top with SOLID GOLD! One cannot but admire the ingenuity of this regency romance using as a background the seldom discussed  period of British history political unrest circa 1831-1832.<br />Sophia Raughley, with the death of her father, was now the Duchess of Everdon. Eight years previously she had fled, from her autocratic father  to the continent and had been living outrageously in France. Now, none other than the king of England himself has summoned her home and sent a handsome messenger to complete the task.  Charged by Wellington with the task of bringing the duchess home is one of the most divine hero's to hit the pages of this talented wordsmith.  Adrian Burchard, third son (though illigetimate) of the Earl of Dincaster.  While Adrian's first impression of the new Duchess of Everdon did not display her in the best of circumstances - she really did `display' quite a bit of her charms - her impression of him was of another autocratic and manipulative male.  Knowing full well that the summons is only to marry her off in order to put a man in one of the most powerfully political seats, she is resentful at being forced into being manipulated and used once again by the men in her life. Both lead protagonists, were resentful of one another but circumstances compelled them  into a close association and as Sophia began to trust Adrian, they both began to recognize a kindred spirit as they peeled back the layers of mistrust, and lack of nurturing they'd both endured during their formative years.  Adrian realized that under the frivolous demeanor Sophia showed to the world there existed a terrified and tortured soul that with his quiet strength and understanding helped her to overcome her fears - all the while as they opened their eyes and embraced the passion that soon overcame them both they stole what happiness they could as he tried to protect Sophia from the treachery of those who would use her for their own means.<br />This was a fabulous read with two very intelligent, complex and wonderfully defined  protagonists. The passionate intensity of the story and the steamy love scenes were all the more poignant as through it all, Adrian because of  his checkered bloodlines and political affiliations knew that their love had no future.  He loved as though each time might be their last and the sensual dialog's were so beautifully composed that they truly did touch my heart.  Along with this very moving romance, we are treated to a wonderful cast of secondary characters of which Sophia's two prot&eacute;g&eacute;s, Attila and Jacques, who were tremendously delightful, especially when Jacques reprimanded Adrian for not being a good lover -- then proceeded to give him tips!  On top of all of this, the reader will uncover a very surprising twist at the end that I never saw coming - but you'll have to read the book to discover it!  Bottom line --  THIS is romance at it's best and what I've come to expect from Madeline Hunter!  --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---happiness they could as he tried to protect Sophia from the treachery of those who would use her for their own means.  <br />This was a fabulous read with two very intelligent, complex and wonderfully defined  protagonists. The passionate intensity of the story and the steamy love scenes were all the more poignant as through it all, Adrian because of  his checkered bloodlines and political affiliations knew that their love had no future.  He loved as though each time might be their last and the sensual dialog's were so beautifully composed that they truly did touch my heart.  Along with this very moving romance, we are treated to a wonderful cast of secondary characters of which Sophia's two protgs, Attila and Jacques, who were tremendously delightful, especially when Jacques reprimanded Adrian for not being a good lover -- then proceeded to give him tips!  On top of all of this, the reader will uncover a very surprising twist at the end that I never saw coming - but you'll have to read the book to discover it!  Bottom line --  THIS is romance at it's best and what I've come to expect from Madeline Hunter!   --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-11
675468:US	45284807	R1CIUFWX8DCJGT	0553585908	329605277	The Saint (Seducer)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good not Great but still worth a Look!	Setting - England 1823 ---- In the second book of Hunter's new Regency era series, Vergil, Viscount Duclairc, is in search of his missing American ward under the assumption she has been kidnapped, only to find that she was performing as a theatrical singer in a gentleman's club.  Miss Bianca Kenwood had no interest in giving up her independence and this high-handed and stern new `guardian' of hers, however handsome he may be, was not about to curb her life's greatest desire of singing on stage.  But considering that he controlled her inheritance, she would have to allow him to sweep her off to his country estate until she could come up with a better plan to pursue her dream.<br />Exchanging barbs, refusing to address him properly and going out of her way antagonize him enough that he would wash his hands of her just didn't seem to be doing the trick.  Not only that but his nearness and presence was definitely affecting her in spite of her resolve to continue her studies and anticipated career.  Before long the mutual physical attraction and some outrageous behavior from his American ward had Vergil swept up into a maelstrom of emotions - like whether to kiss her or spank her!  As they both are bound together for the next 10 months they must endure each other as they attempt to survive the murderous attempts on their lives and discover the reasons for his brother's suicide.<br />Why the lower rating?  Okay, I am a great fan of Ms. Hunters and absolutely loved her medieval BY series....  This story was a take on the guardian falling in love with his ward vehicle often used in the romance genre.  I was a bit disappointed in Vergil's high handedness with Bianca and his seemingly cold-hearted attempts to divert her fortune into his family's control by initially trying to marry her off to his brother Dante.  This did not seem like the same Vergil, that was warmly characterized in the first book of this series - THE SEDUCER.  I can also say that Bianca did not worm her way into my heart at all - a bit too stubborn and selfish. On top of some bad editing mistakes on pg. 191 and 192 - (who the heck is Lucas?), I thought the author opened up a can of worms with Vergil's almost and very likeable fianc&eacute;.  Why was Fleur, portrayed as such a classical beauty, best friend and with a very minor role as to why she was so gun-shy of marriage?  It sounded like another mystery and then dropped??? Hello, what happened here-- a little bit of closure would have been nice.  Bottom line - good, but not up to the standards I've come to expect from this exceptional author after reading her medieval BY series...... --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---into my heart at all - a bit too stubborn and selfish. On top of some bad editing mistakes on pg. 191 and 192 - (who the heck is Lucas?), I thought the author opened up a can of worms with Vergil's almost and very likeable fianc.  Why was Fleur, portrayed as such a classical beauty, best friend and with a very minor role as to why she was so gun-shy of marriage?  It sounded like another mystery and then dropped??? Hello, what happened here-- a little bit of closure would have been nice.  Bottom line - good, but not up to the standards I've come to expect from this exceptional author after reading her medieval BY series...... --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-09
678649:US	45284807	R1S1LBPLNMXX1G	0843953098	474360377	The Spare (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	Original and Page Turning Regency	Setting -  Pennhyll Castle, Cumbria, 1812 ---  Captain Sebastian Alexander, of His Majesty's Royal navy was home, recuperating from wounds received in battle, and from the summons that had finally reached him notifying him of his father's death and his bother's murder.  Sebastian, `the spare' was now the heir and as such, the Earl of Tiern-Cope.  It was his duty to marry, yes marry and set up his nursery - and to his mind get back to the sea, the only thing in his life he loved.<br />His very good friend James had assembled a house party along with a bevy of prospective brides for him to choose from, including James' sister Diana, whom he assumed Sebastian would marry.  Included with this group and to even out the numbers, was another `spare' Olivia Willow who is the only witness and sole survivor at the scene of the murder that claimed his brother and sister-in-law's lives.  The only problem being, Olivia had been so traumatized that she'd lost all memories of the day before and the two days following the murders.  Sebastian was determined to `break' her, to probe within the mind that held the secrets and bring the killer to justice. What he was not ready for was Olivia, with her red hair, and her irreverence towards his arrogance and animosity towards her.  While staying in the castle both Sebastian and Olivia were being assailed with visions of the ghostly Black Earl and themselves in sensual occupations, neither was ever sure what was real and what was not, except for the intense physical attraction that both felt and  were trying to ignore.<br />This was quite an unusual love story with two very original lead protagonists.  Sebastian was determined to uncover the murderer, always thinking that Olivia was involved yet fighting his escalating feelings every day for a woman whom he clearly felt had probably had an affair with his brother.  Sebastian is clearly one of the more arrogant male leads I've encountered with very little finesse in courting the female sex, particularly after having led a sailors life for the past twelve years.  Olivia on the other hand, was a delightful heroine, who on top of all the injustices she'd endured in life still had a positive outlook.  The secondary characters were all well drawn out as to their parts in the story, and the ghostly apparitions were a fun touch adding a lot of depth and interest to the plot.  I admit to reading this in one sitting, it certainly was an exciting page-turner and the `imagined and dreamed' sexual encounters were extremely hot.  The only reason I have for not giving it a higher rating though, is that I believe it would have been nice to have seen a bit more reaction of James and Diana to Sebastian's abrupt marriage to Olivia, especially since James was his best friend and had himself offered marriage to Olivia.  Bottom line, the story is terrific with an original plot that fans of this sub-genre should truly enjoy. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer at [...], particularly after having led a sailors life for the past twelve years.  Olivia on the other hand, was a delightful heroine, who on top of all the injustices she'd endured in life still had a positive outlook.  The secondary characters were all well drawn out as to their parts in the story, and the ghostly apparitions were a fun touch adding a lot of depth and interest to the plot.  I admit to reading this in one sitting, it certainly was an exciting page-turner and the `imagined and dreamed' sexual encounters were extremely hot.  The only reason I have for not giving it a higher rating though, is that I believe it would have been nice to have seen a bit more reaction of James and Diana to Sebastian's abrupt marriage to Olivia, especially since James was his best friend and had himself offered marriage to Olivia.  Bottom line, the story is terrific with an original plot that fans of this sub-genre should truly enjoy. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer at [...]	2004-05-06
681208:US	45284807	R3OAG7OF8A65MW	0972937935	475404469	Promises of Honor	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Superb Emotional Intensity - American Revolution	Setting - Philadelphia, 1781 --- In Book II of the HONOR TRILOGY, the author takes us back to the closing stages of the American Revolution.  The two lovers Faith and Fletcher Irons have reconciled, their love has survived the war, betrayal, tragedy and the separation.  And now as the continuation opens, Faith has aided  Fletcher in escaping the hangman's noose as the three, Fletcher, Faith and Jonathan, flee to a tract of land and a new start in Delaware.  Along their journey, they had the misfortune to stop at an inn in Philadelphia where Faith was brutally attacked.  Fletcher, verbally and physically had a public altercation with the man and the next morning when the man's body was found he was then falsely accused of murdering him. Still reeling from the trauma of the attack, Faith was now left alone with their young son to not only fight for Fletcher's life as well as to restore her own soul.<br />Discovering a solicitor who would defend a former English officer in patriotic Philadelphia proved to be disheartening task, but once again Faith is able to find not only a kindly man to take on the case, James Westbrook, but who would also provide she and young Jonathan a place to stay while the case was tried.  Soon a young man, with a long-lost secret from Fletcher's past would arrive just in time to help Faith once more aid Fletcher to escape another hangman's noose.<br />Once again the author recreates for the reader a marvelous tale of love, devotion, betrayal, and forgiveness of these two star-crossed lovers, now man and wife as they fight the insurmountable odds in an attempt to begin a new life at the end of the war.  The author tugs at your emotional heartstrings over the brutality of men against woman, and its aftermath.  Faith in spite of the brutality against her and the regrets of the precious time wasted between her and Fletcher is still portrayed as strong, determined, and passionate in her defense of her husband.  Fletcher is a grand hero, a man of honor, who I rather felt sorry for, he was completely shut out and didn't know of one child's existence until he was totally grown up, missed the first five years Jonathan's childhood, his son with Faith, and now was about to lose his life for crime he didn't commit. The secondary characters are marvelous and the romance between Christian and Sara is captivating and sweet.  The entire story is thrilling with page turning intensity, featuring vividly described emotional upheavals of love lost and found. Another superb entry in this marvelous trilogy! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---honor, who I rather felt sorry for, he was completely shut out and didn't know of one child's existence until he was totally grown up, missed the first five years Jonathan's childhood, his son with Faith, and now was about to lose his life for crime he didn't commit. The secondary characters are marvelous and the romance between Christian and Sara is captivating and sweet.   The entire story is thrilling with page turning intensity, featuring vividly described emotional upheavals of love lost and found. Another superb entry in this marvelous trilogy! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-05-04
686491:US	45284807	R17QCH5IDJ8V16	0060505737	569988195	The Ideal Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Not her best effort - but still good!	Setting - Eyeworth Manor, near Fritham in New Forest, Hampshire, 1825 ---  For fans of Laurens earlier Cynster novels this one features  Michael Anstruther-Wetherby, who at 33 is a rising member of Parliament -- a man who clearly has a very promising future, quite possibly destined for greatness but insiders confided to him that advancement would be conditional upon him acquiring a wife.  Handsome, well-born and naturally charming he is matchmaking mama's dream, especially with his connections to the wealthy and influential Cynster family -- his sister is married to Devil Cynster, the Duke of St. Ives (DEVIL'S BRIDE).<br />Knowing that he needs a perfect wife, who would be politically astute, Michael has looks over his acquaintances and decides that 19 year old, Elizabeth Mollston would make a perfectly acceptable wife and helpmate as she came from a politically involved family herself.  The only problem is that Elizabeth is in love with another and has enlisted the help of her Aunt Caro Sutcliffe, to help her in discouraging him from declaring himself.  It doesn't take long before Michael discovers what that Caro has been `managing' him and that it is Caro, the very accomplished foreign ministers widow, who would be the perfect helpmate. Only Caro, whose previous marriage to a much older man, is adamant to remain `The Merry Widow' and NEVER intends to marry again.  Michael has to use all of his abundant diplomatic charm to convince her to become his wife.  At the same time, in a secondary sub-plot, and after numerous `accidents', he must discover who is trying to kill her.<br />While this latest entry has abundant and graphic sexual encounters, it seemed to me that Laurens came up a bit short in the fire and feisty humor department.  Caro and Michael, when not in bed, against a wall, or on the floor or ground hardly ever lose control of their emotions, which believe it or not give them a slightly lifeless appeal. After a while I grew somewhat bored with the repetitive sexual encounters and actually started skipping over them,  being more interested in the action and mystery of the sub-plot of who was trying to kill Caro.  The well-developed mystery subplot, in my opinion, saved this story being tossed aside, and of course, involving Devil Cynster (one of my all time favorite male heroes) was a treat!  The excitement just wasn't there to call this a page-turner.  Another point I look at when evaluating a book is that I had no trouble in putting it aside to go to bed.  Bottom line.... Good, but not what I've come to expect from such an accomplished author.etitive sexual encounters and actually started skipping over them,  being more interested in the action and mystery of the sub-plot of who was trying to kill Caro.   The well-developed mystery subplot, in my opinion, saved this story being tossed aside, and of course, involving Devil Cynster (one of my all time favorite male heroes) was a treat!  The excitement just wasn't there to call this a page-turner.  Another point I look at when evaluating a book is that I had no trouble in putting it aside to go to bed.  Bottom line.... Good, but not what I've come to expect from such an accomplished author.	2004-04-30
687450:US	45284807	R2S9D7GZXYA509	0425196453	372745873	The Marriage Test	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Delicious Medieval Sequel to Brides of Virtue Series	Setting - France - Medieval era --- Once again the author returns to the Brides of Virtue Convent, where the reader is introduced to Julia, of Childress.  Julia is a young woman of 18 who through amazing efforts of fortitude and resiliency has achieved the position of head chef of some fame at the abbey with her very delectable dishes.  As it happens, two knights from the count of Grandaise stopped on their way home.  Knowing the count's peculiar affliction they reported back to him the discovery of a chef with such an amazing talent, that even the count whose sense of smell was so profound, would be able to eat these heavenly inspired dishes. Griffin, the count, was forced to live with a steel band around his nose to prevent the abundant, decaying and surrounding odors from assailing his senses.  Having hired and fired so many cooks, Griffin decided to discover himself if this cook was as good as described.  Disguised, he snuck into the convent's kitchen and stole samples of the dishes Julia had prepared especially for the Duke of Avalon's visit.  (The description of this event was hilarious!) Griffin, thought he'd died and gone to heaven -- he was so astonished -- and he knew at once he had to procure this chef at all costs.<br />The abbess, realizing what a `treasure' she had in Julia, had tried repeatedly to convince her to take vows in an attempt to keep her in the convent kitchens. She wasn't about to let Julia go without a fight.<br />Enamored and bewitched by the heavenly food he'd sampled, Griffin was unwilling to be intimidated by the abbess.  Cunningly, he negotiated a princely sum in the presence of the visiting `greedy' bishop and duke so that the abbess was overruled and compelled into allowing Julia to be loaned to Griffin for a term of one year.  At the end of that time, Julia was to be returned to the convent - maidenly intact - and ready to take her vows.  This was not a problem until Griffin discovered that the `chef' was quite a `dish' herself!<br />Unfortunately, while all these negotiations were going on, Julia was fuming as her ideas of what she wanted in life were decidedly different from what was being discussed.  Julia wanted marriage and a family, not the convent, and she was just stubborn enough to get the sensitive nosed count to realize she's just the `dish' he's been waiting for his entire life!<br />I found this new addition to the Convent of the Brides of Virtue series to be a most interesting and `delectable' novel, and only wish that it came with a cookbook attached of the recipes on the fabulously described dishes that had my mouth watering!  The old adage of ...the way to a man's heart was through his stomach... was certainly proven here in this delightful tale. As I have come to also notice in her writing, along with the very interesting characters, there are the villains set in the background trying to make trouble and avenge what they perceived to be wrongs done to them.  Peppered thoroughly with Ms. Krahn's pearls of wisdom on `husbands', coupled with a lot of common sense, this could be used as a guide on sustaining the growing pains one endures in making a marriage work!  Truly, this was a most delicious book in this thoroughly entertaining series.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---<br />Unfortunately, while all these negotiations were going on, Julia was fuming as her ideas of what she wanted in life were decidedly different from what was being discussed.  Julia wanted marriage and a family, not the convent, and she was just stubborn enough to get the sensitive nosed count to realize she's just the `dish' he's been waiting for his entire life!<br />I found this new addition to the Convent of the Brides of Virtue series to be a most interesting and `delectable' novel, and only wish that it came with a cookbook attached of the recipes on the fabulously described dishes that had my mouth watering!  The old adage of ...the way to a man's heart was through his stomach... was certainly proven here in this delightful tale. As I have come to also notice in her writing, along with the very interesting characters, there are the villains set in the background trying to make trouble and avenge what they perceived to be wrongs done to them.  Peppered thoroughly with Ms. Krahn's pearls of wisdom on `husbands', coupled with a lot of common sense, this could be used as a guide on sustaining the growing pains one endures in making a marriage work!  Truly, this was a most delicious book in this thoroughly entertaining series.  --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-04-29
687776:US	45284807	R22GKRIJIKT8VH	0451411129	857453135	The Corset Diaries	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Funny Slapstick Kind of Humor	Tessa Riordan, accepted the challenge, or should I say position of playing the part of a turn of the century duchess in a British television reality show. Not that she thought she was actress material, quite the contrary as a 39 year old, nearly 6-foot tall overweight widow.  Her friend Roger convinced her that none of that mattered that she was descended from royalty, but in the end it was the pay - ten thousand dollars for one month's work - that was much too hard to turn down, especially as she was so financially strapped.  Twenty-four hours later, jet-lagged, and slightly drunk she was to get her first good look at Max Edgerton, a veritable dark sexy Adonis, who was to play the part of her husband, the Duke.  She promptly vomited on his foot and thought things just couldn't get any worse.  She was wrong!  She would have to wear a turn of the century corset and still try to breathe every time she caught sight of the duke!  In this mad-cap, screwball comedy of errors, MacAlister sets the reader on a roller coaster ride of the behind the scenes look at what could and does happen behind the scenes of reality TV with a sex-starved widow thrown into a month-long make-believe marriage with a very sexy and very accommodating lusty kind of guy and his brat of an adolescent daughter.  Toss into this mix, a bunch of zany characters like, Mrs. Peters, the housekeeper who keeps daily contact with the spirits of the house; a hypochondriac butler; and plethora of screwy like actors, producers, and assistants and you are in for a very amusing read.<br />Funny - absolutely! AND, as a devoted reader of regency era genre, what fun it would be to be cast in this type of a reality show!  So, why not a higher rating?  I have followed and read just about all of her books, even the very first regency written under Marthe Arends, and totally loved her comedic historicals.  My reasons are that I feel in her more contemporary writings, I get the distinct feeling of crassness in her humor i.e. a `stuffy nose' referred to as a `snot locker' - Sorry, but that type of humor doesn't really do it for me.  Also, I really couldn't believe a 39-year-old widow who nursed and lost a husband to cancer acting like such a featherbrain most of the time, it really seemed a bit unbelievable to me, although towards the end of the book, way at the end, she did start to act more responsibly.  Looking beyond my nit-picking objections, and these are just my opinions, devoted fans of this very talented author will enjoy her latest entry at a comedic look at reality TV.i.e. a `stuffy nose' referred to as a `snot locker' - Sorry, but that type of humor doesn't really do it for me.  Also, I really couldn't believe a 39-year-old widow who nursed and lost a husband to cancer acting like such a featherbrain most of the time, it really seemed a bit unbelievable to me, although towards the end of the book, way at the end, she did start to act more responsibly.   Looking beyond my nit-picking objections, and these are just my opinions, devoted fans of this very talented author will enjoy her latest entry at a comedic look at reality TV.	2004-04-29
687948:US	45284807	R79JEJOV5WNDR	0451211952	516196681	Losing the Moon	Books	5	23	25	N	N	OUTSTANDING - Emotional and Real - A Winner!!	WOW! If you could make money by predicting a best seller then I would go ahead put your money on this one!<br /><br />Twenty-five years ago, two college students, Amy Reynolds and Nick Lowry were young, idealistic, and very much in love.  Idealistic, Nick wanted to save the wilderness and he and seven other students left on a Costa Rican tropical biology conservation program as part of credits towards graduation - parting was painful for young lovers but the promise to return in three months was made..... only it didn't happen.  No letters, no contact, Amy was shattered and bereft, especially after Nick's mother told her that Nick was going on with his life and to forget him.  After a time, Amy began to live again, married a hometown boy, had two loving children, and settled into middle class suburbia - a seemingly perfect life.  That is until one perfect autumn afternoon when Amy's son asked that his parents come to meet the parents of a girl he'd become serious with and on that fateful day, the two families lives would never again be the same.<br />For anyone who has ever experienced that first love, with the passion, the rush, the giddy `can't get enough of you' - all consuming kind of passion, this is a book you cannot miss!  It is powerful, sensual, beautifully portrayed and thoroughly credible.  You'll feel the rage of betrayal and the confusion that both Nick and Amy felt.  You'll develop your own opinions on forgiveness.  I felt it eloquently imparted all the joy, pain and sorrow that only those who have been there can understand.  It touched me deeply and stayed with me long after the final chapter.  All of the characters and their motivations were so well described and sympathetic that I agonized right along with them.  This is a most passionate and beautiful love story that the reader should keep tissues handy when reading.  I absolutely loved it and highly recommend this book.  This new author, in my opinion, has made a brilliant start with this outstanding first novel. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---nding first novel. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-04-29
688287:US	45284807	R3DYDLWGD0LJ0F	0373293046	682235510	The Engagement	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Canadian Mounted Police WINNER!	Setting - Alberta, Canada 1891 --- This is the second novel penned by Ms. Bridges featuring the Canadian Mounted Police. While it is part of a trilogy, it can most assuredly stand-alone.  Dr. Virginia Waters has traveled to Alberta from Niagara Falls to marry - not the brother, Andrew, she had been engaged to for six long years - but his older brother Zack Bullock, i.e. `Bulls - eye' - aptly named for his precision as a `sharpshooter' in the Mounties.  While, she had not been madly in love with Andrew, they had been childhood friends and it was a comfortable arrangement, with Andrews's parents even paying her tuition for medical school. Now, several months later after finding out that Andrew had married a woman he'd known for less than two months, she was being getting ready to marry his older brother Zack in two days! She'd arrived four weeks early hoping to reacquaint herself with her intended groom, and two days before the nuptials he'd still not shown his face - one could certainly understand her anxiety over the possibility of being jilted -- once again!<br />Zack, knew that he would have to get married some day and while this would not be a love match he remembered well the attractive young girl that had tagged along behind his younger brother Andrew.  It would prove to be a good match, knowing that she would have her medical career, and would more than likely leave him to his duties.  He'd never been in love, and never expected he would be.  What he did not expect, was to have her administering to his wounds after a failed bomb and gunshot left him immobilized and weak the day before the wedding.<br />As someone had to make a decision, and the groom would never be up and about to marry her the next day, Virginia postponed the wedding.  Later, Zack would remember hearing a threat against his pretty bride to be. Knowing that his enemies were vicious enough to harm her he had to make a decision as well - one that would truly get the point across to his enemies that Virginia meant nothing to him.  So he publicly and loudly proclaimed to all at a pre-wedding get together, that he was breaking off their engagement and she should get on with her life elsewhere!  Well, I guess it's a `guy thing', because wouldn't you guess, now he's having a heck of a time trying to act uninvolved when he wants nothing more than to be VERY involved with the very desirable Dr. Virginia Waters.<br />Ms. Bridges has penned another devilishly delicious and witty novel based on the men and the woman who loved those daring and irresistible Canadian Mounties!  She develops the characters extremely well with what must be a good amount of research and very descriptive prose that gives the reader a picture in their mind of life in that era and engages your emotions writing with compassion, humor and sensuality.  This is a great little book that I can recommend for people who like a warm and fuzzy after feel served up with their favorite novels.  Can't wait for the next in this trilogy! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---es that Virginia meant nothing to him.  So he publicly and loudly proclaimed to all at a pre-wedding get together, that he was breaking off their engagement and she should get on with her life elsewhere!  Well, I guess it's a `guy thing', because wouldn't you guess, now he's having a heck of a time trying to act uninvolved when he wants nothing more than to be VERY involved with the very desirable Dr. Virginia Waters. <br />Ms. Bridges has penned another devilishly delicious and witty novel based on the men and the woman who loved those daring and irresistible Canadian Mounties!  She develops the characters extremely well with what must be a good amount of research and very descriptive prose that gives the reader a picture in their mind of life in that era and engages your emotions writing with compassion, humor and sensuality.  This is a great little book that I can recommend for people who like a warm and fuzzy after feel served up with their favorite novels.  Can't wait for the next in this trilogy! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-04-28
688808:US	45284807	R2ER8OTF4VI4VW	0425195279	493661268	Charming the Shrew (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Exciting Scottish Medieval	Setting - 1308, Scotland ---- Well, when you get right down to it, both of the protagonists were running away.  Catriona MacLeod, known throughout as the Shrew of Assynt, was running from an arranged marriage her insufferable and mean spirited eldest brother had arranged for her. Catriona had vowed that she would bow to no man's demands and live life on her own.  Tayg Munro, warrior and supporter of Robert the Bruce, had returned home the hero. With his elder brothers death, he is now the heir apparent to lead his clan and all that it entailed.  His mother was pushing him to select a bride himself before she arranged a suitable match so Tayg promised her,  that if he could not find someone himself, he'd capitulate to her wishes.  Only first, he would undertake one more task for his country -- that of posing as a bard to carrying a message to the king keeping his eyes and ears open along the way to discover the political climate and who might be supporting his throne.<br />Trying to escape, Catriona \\"Cat\\" whose sense of direction was minimal, unfortunately ran in the wrong direction. She was caught in a snow storm, thrown from her horse, was swearing up a blue-streak and  discovered by the `wandering Bard' who hadn't heard such colorful language since leaving the battlefield.  Tayg thought he'd never met a more beautiful lass, or a more thorny one whose sharp tongue could cut like a rapier.  Cat, thought he was certainly one of the most handsomest men she'd seen, and stranded as she was, would allow the `bard' to help her escape.  Tayg not really needing another encumbrance on his mission for the king - no matter how beautiful she was - just couldn't abandon her in the middle of the snowstorm.  Little by little she came to trust her `bard' as he discovered that her acerbic tongue was used as a shield she used in disguising her true softer self. Discovering a diabolical plot, they soon joined forces in their cross-country race to warn the king of treasonous activities.  As the dangers around them flared, their passions ignited as well, hot and bold enough to consume them both in a passionate lovers embrace that would be pure bliss - if they survived!<br /><br />For me this new author has penned an exciting Scottish Medieval romance starring two captivating protagonists. While I found what I felt were inconsistencies in the dialogs, I can still appreciate the engaging storyline and could identify with the shrewish tongue Cat used to erect a wall around her heart.  This was a lovely story, fast paced and interesting.  While it did not contain an enormous amount of sensual activity, it projected a great deal of sensual awareness and emotion.  The `true' villain in the story was a surprise and was dealt with satisfactorily.  I readily suggest that this be put on sub-genre fans wish and buy lists as a very enjoyable read.  --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for  [...]s.  As the dangers around them flared, their passions ignited as well, hot and bold enough to consume them both in a passionate lovers embrace that would be pure bliss - if they survived!<BR> <BR>For me this new author has penned an exciting Scottish Medieval romance starring two captivating protagonists. While I found what I felt were inconsistencies in the dialogs, I can still appreciate the engaging storyline and could identify with the shrewish tongue Cat used to erect a wall around her heart.  This was a lovely story, fast paced and interesting.  While it did not contain an enormous amount of sensual activity, it projected a great deal of sensual awareness and emotion.  The `true' villain in the story was a surprise and was dealt with satisfactorily.  I readily suggest that this be put on sub-genre fans wish and buy lists as a very enjoyable read.  --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for  [...]	2004-04-28
696308:US	45284807	R2SPAS3SNXIULJ	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Darkly Sensual Page Turner  4-1/2*	Setting - France and England, 1818 ---  In this new series from Madeline Hunter, she has moved from the medieval age over to the Regency era in the period following the defeat of Napolean.  Our heroine is the orphaned young girl, Diane Albret.  She has been brought to the headmistress' office to be judged and punished for a school infraction.  Brought to the school to witness this crime was, Daniel St. John, her mysterious guardian - a man who paid her tuition and made yearly visits to ask after her comfort - a man whose eyes were so dark and unfathomable that the child Diane had nicknamed `The Devil Man.  As Daniel questioned her he realized that time had passed quickly when he wasn't looking and she was no longer a child,  it was definitely time she left school.<br />For Diane, looking into his dark unfathomable eyes, the name Devil Man still had credence as he took her from the school, the only home she'd known for the last ten years.  An innocent, warning from the headmistress rang in her head - that a men such as he would only be after one thing.  Therefore, Diane was amazed when he brought her to the home in Paris he shared with his sister Jeanette.  She couldn't fathom what he wanted from her but as he showered her with gowns and trips to the opera, her feelings of discomfort were rising to the surface - not realizing that the discomfort was really from an intense physical attraction to him and not just for his kindness to her.<br />Daniel St. John, was a notorious seducer yet while he was attracted to the beautiful young orphan, he fought his attraction knowing that he couldn't let himself get involved with Diane for she would be playing an important part in his plan of a revenge that he'd long awaited for. Daniel, traumatized as a young boy as he witnessed his mother's demise on the guillotine and his fathers complete breakdown had lived only for this revenge - fifteen years of waiting.  Revenge upon the man who had stolen his sister's innocence, would be sweet, and Diane was just the bait to trap him. Unfortunately, human nature and the laws of attraction would plunge these two `orphans' both into danger and each other's arms as Daniel would learn that revenge at the cost of losing Diana, would not be sweet at all.<br />Madeline Hunter's newest offering has begun this series with a non-stop page-turning, darkly sensual and moody debut.  Daniel is a very dark and moody hero, with more secrets than you can shake a stick at and Hunter keeps the suspense close to her chest as the reader is compelled to discover what those secrets are.  The palatable sensuality is kept at an all time high as the two lead characters stir an ever-tangling web of seduction that leaves no passion unstirred...or heart untouched.  With a wonderful cast of secondary characters promised to have their stories told in future novels, this new series written by the very talented Madeline Hunter is one in which I can't wait to follow up on!  ---  Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---be sweet, and Diane was just the bait to trap him. Unfortunately, human nature and the laws of attraction would plunge these two `orphans' both into danger and each other's arms as Daniel would learn that revenge at the cost of losing Diana, would not be sweet at all. <br />Madeline Hunter's newest offering has begun this series with a non-stop page-turning, darkly sensual and moody debut.  Daniel is a very dark and moody hero, with more secrets than you can shake a stick at and Hunter keeps the suspense close to her chest as the reader is compelled to discover what those secrets are.  The palatable sensuality is kept at an all time high as the two lead characters stir an ever-tangling web of seduction that leaves no passion unstirred...or heart untouched.  With a wonderful cast of secondary characters promised to have their stories told in future novels, this new series written by the very talented Madeline Hunter is one in which I can't wait to follow up on!  ---  Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-04-22
699189:US	45284807	RYPH17WX57PV8	0425192091	1113934	Widow in Scarlet (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Luscious Seduction....4-1/2* Rating	Setting - London, 1816 ---  Lucy Contrain, was just completing a years mourning for her deceased husband, Stanley.  Having not left her financially secure, she was just getting by - barely - and trying to keep her head above water at the mountain of debt left to her at Stanley's passing that was fast consuming her. If not for the friendship of a very kind widow, the countess of Sealy, who held weekly salons, Lucy, who attended these, would at least be able to eat and oftentimes sneak a sandwich or two in her reticule to bring home to her one remaining young maid. The gossip at these salons often told the tales and latest on-dits and conquests of Nicholas Ramsey, Viscount Richmond.<br />Nicholas was widely known by a scandalous reputation, and as a great lover, although few knew his true occupation was acting as an agent for the Prince Regent.  Prinny had commissioned him to locate a legendary ruby, the \\"Scarlett Widow', that he wanted as an addition to the famous crown jewels.  The problem was the ruby had been stolen before it ever reached the appointed exchange and Nicholas' friend, the courier, had been killed in the process.  A year later and a  very cold trail led him to the door of another beguiling widow, Lucy Contrain.<br />Totally wary of this known seducer who announced - `he desperately needed her' - Lucy was not initially ready or comfortable to help him prove her deceased husband was in cahoots with the thieves.  That was until she discovered that he would allow her to share in the five thousand pound reward - and of course she would be able to clear her husbands name.  Nicolas whose devil-may-care attitude towards falling in love masked a deep and genuine hurt over failing to keep his loved ones safe, so made it a point to remain detached. Now that attempts are being made on Lucy, he is more than ever regretting allowing her to become involved.<br />What follows is an exciting adventure and a luscious slow and beautiful seduction that is as charming as the suspense plot is exciting.  Nicholas is a complex character who masks his generous and caring heart with an arrogant indifference.  Lucy, although a widow is an innocent and trusting young woman who is only now experiencing through Nicholas, what true caring and loving is all about.  Mostly serious in nature, the reader will be delighted with the humorous episode involving the borrowed guard dog and the resulting calamity.  This was a truly enjoyable read that is just perfect for a lazy day at the beach or in the back yard. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---g as the suspense plot is exciting.  Nicholas is a complex character who masks his generous and caring heart with an arrogant indifference.  Lucy, although a widow is an innocent and trusting young woman who is only now experiencing through Nicholas, what true caring and loving is all about.  Mostly serious in nature, the reader will be delighted with the humorous episode involving the borrowed guard dog and the resulting calamity.  This was a truly enjoyable read that is just perfect for a lazy day at the beach or in the back yard. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-04-20
708364:US	45284807	R1J9CLMY7AP74W	0060527056	576993619	Affair Most Wicked, An	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Very smart and wickedly sexy book!	Setting --- London, 1883 -  Following on the heels of the brilliant marriage her sister Sophia had made in marrying an English Duke, Clara Wilson, who had avoided a near disaster in ruining herself two years prior, has now come to London to find a good and kind husband and if he has a title, so much the better. Not that a title was important -- as an heiress in her own right, she had no need of money.  Due to a mix-up in invitations and running late, Clara and her companion attended a notorious Cakras ball, two doors down from the polite society event they were meant to attend.  It was at this same Cakras ball, that Clara met a most intriguing man, one whose dance, and seductive kisses were to leave such an imprint on mind and body that she would enlist her sister, to attend another Cakras ball in order to discover just who the mysterious and seductive stranger was.<br />Seger Wolfe, the marquess of Rawdon had sworn himself away from virginal debutantes, yet the innocent American, had intrigued him and caused his hardened outlook on life to contemplate further communication with her.  Beginning with some very seductive and `naughty' notes (awesomely improper, but oh so titillating) Seger initially shocks and appeals to Clara's sense of adventure even though he just the sort of sexy rogue she should be avoiding especially when she has caught the attention of a very proper Duke who would be much more suitable!<br /><br />Following in the footsteps of  MacLean's series featuring American heiresses who marry into British nobility she has come up with book two that is every bit as sensual and delightful as the first book, TO MARRY THE DUKE.  The protagonists are delightful with Seger as a wonderful hero who writes positively honest and wickedly sensual notes in this deliciously sexy tale of two people who marry for the pure joy of desire - or at least on his part.  Clara is less jaded and is true to her heart, even if she is not entirely sure she can trust Seger.  The romance is divine, and the sex - very hot.  There are just enough evil manipulations by the insipid step-mother and her niece that gives enough intrigue to round this out into a very satisfying novel of a couple who while in love have yet to discover that the basis of true loving relationship was to learn how important it was to trust in one another!  Very smart and wickedly sexy book! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for www-historicalromancewriters.com ---romance is divine, and the sex - very hot.  There are just enough evil manipulations by the insipid step-mother and her niece that gives enough intrigue to round this out into a very satisfying novel of a couple who while in love have yet to discover that the basis of true loving relationship was to learn how important it was to trust in one another!   Very smart and wickedly sexy book! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for www-historicalromancewriters.com ---	2004-04-13
712334:US	45284807	R3OLWD65TRVE73	0425190927	622422263	The Wife Test	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Sequel - Totally Entertaining	Setting - King Edward II England circa 1300's ---  Chloe of Guibray, was a babe in a basket left on the doorstep and brought up by the nuns  in the convent of the Brides of Virtue.  As such she knew most all of the `secrets' kept at the abbey by virtue of her training as the abbess' clerk. - Those secrets she didn't know she was adept at learning, all except the most important one to her, which was her true origins. When she heard how the Duke of Avalon was asking the convent to deliver four marriageable \\"daughters\\" as a part of his ransom to the King of England, Chloe decided that this would be her chance out of the convent and to discover just where and to whom her mysterious English roots would lead her to.  She maneuvered her way into the ransom bride party as `another' of the Duke's `daughters' and when arriving in England, convinced King Edward that it was her `duty' to administer the `wife test' to the prospective brides and grooms in order to match them up to the person most suited to each.<br />Escorting the `maidens' party to England was the ill-tempered, intense and very gruff Sir Hugh de Sennett whose ill will toward women was notorious - and most probably why the King, who was known to enjoy a jest or two, thought Hugh would be the perfect escort and later assistant `wife tester' along with Chloe.  Raised in a monastery since the age of five by monks, Hugh did not hold the female population in any type of esteem at all - likening the whole lot of them to instruments of the devil whose sole duty was to corrupt all men!  AND in his mind, the leader of this pack of females, Chloe, had to be the worst - why else couldn't he erase the image of her azure-blue eyes, and long white legs, from his mind!  Chloe, who'd been brought up under the resolute abbess of the convent of the Brides of Virtue had enough spunk to probably be about the only woman that could make Hugh see that the brainwashing he endured in the monastery truly did taint his outlook at womankind. Hugh had to decide whether he truly was a `hypocrite' to his beliefs, or that what he had learned in the seminary was not necessarily the rules that should be applied to men `outside' those hallowed walls.<br />Krahn's very entertaining sequel to THE HUSBAND TEST - which stands completely on its own - quickly turns into an, exciting adventure and battle of the sexes. The story mixes terrific characters, humor, sensual anticipation, and the mystery of who and why someone wanted to harm the brides, into a delicious blend of creative and skillful writing.  Chloe, whose courage, spunk, and a very high threshold of `forgiveness' (so much to forgive!) and understanding for Hugh - who managed to stay a self-righteous prig through out most of the novel - is a heroine to love!  The one factor that saves Hugh from being a total jerk was discovering how his childhood and upbringing gave him such a skewed up outlook on life. I was totally entertained from start to finish and absolutely howled over Hugh's `confession' of his immoral thoughts towards Chloe!  With terrific secondary characters, subtle wit and humor used in the dialogs, and very creative plots, I find that this author is fast on her way to becoming an `auto buy' for me! (...)nd. Hugh had to decide whether he truly was a `hypocrite' to his beliefs, or that what he had learned in the seminary was not necessarily the rules that should be applied to men `outside' those hallowed walls.<br />Krahn's very entertaining sequel to THE HUSBAND TEST - which stands completely on its own - quickly turns into an, exciting adventure and battle of the sexes. The story mixes terrific characters, humor, sensual anticipation, and the mystery of who and why someone wanted to harm the brides, into a delicious blend of creative and skillful writing.  Chloe, whose courage, spunk, and a very high threshold of `forgiveness' (so much to forgive!) and understanding for Hugh - who managed to stay a self-righteous prig through out most of the novel - is a heroine to love!  The one factor that saves Hugh from being a total jerk was discovering how his childhood and upbringing gave him such a skewed up outlook on life. I was totally entertained from start to finish and absolutely howled over Hugh's `confession' of his immoral thoughts towards Chloe!  With terrific secondary characters, subtle wit and humor used in the dialogs, and very creative plots, I find that this author is fast on her way to becoming an `auto buy' for me! (...)	2004-04-10
712721:US	45284807	R1COX5KNVCT77X	0553583867	589314413	The Husband Test	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wonderfully Entertaining!	Setting - Medieval England --  From the very first paragraph of this novel when the abbess of the Brides of Virtue convent uttered these prophetic words \\"Heaven help me from that wretched girl!\\" I just knew that this was going to be a delightful tale.  The `wretched girl' turned out to be Eloise the novitiate whose greatest ambition was to become a nun and `abbess'.  Eloise, whose ambitious attempts at finding a better way for tried and true methods have most often ended up into disasters that have tried the patience of the long suffering abbess.<br />When Peril, Lord of Whitmore shows up at the gate of the convent in search of a `virtuous bride' who could rid his home and lands of a curse, the abbess created a new position, that of `husband judge' and sends Eloise, the `thorn in her side', the ambitious little novitiate, to assess whether this frustratingly haughty Lord is worthy of one of the highly desirable virtuous young ladies coveted as brides and trained at the convent. Peril, was a warrior and he really didn't want a bride but would do anything to try to save his village and lands from the disasters and curses that continued to rain down on his domain.<br />Right from the start `Sister' Eloise and Peril seemed to bring out the worst in each other as the entertaining filled beginning turned into an action adventure once they started for his home.  Once there, Eloise was given her greatest test, that of separating her growing `non-nun like' feelings for the man she was to judge worthy for a bride.  For Peril, his greatest test was to dismiss the `carnal' thoughts he was having for the `nun' that was to judge his suitability for a virtuous bride.  Not only would the sexual attractions between the two protagonists cause problems but more importantly they would have to band together to discover what treachery there was behind the `curse' at Whitmore.<br />From the totally entertaining beginning the reader will open their hearts to this thoroughly likeable and darling heroine and the very tender love story that brings a tear to your eye as Peril comes to realize, almost too late that the small `stirring' in his heart is really love and not `pain'..  The author knows how to keep the reader interested and certainly caught my attention as from the very first page of this book I found it VERY difficult to put down. For pure joy and entertainment, you can't miss with this one! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...] ---rling heroine and the very tender love story that brings a tear to your eye as Peril comes to realize, almost too late that the small `stirring' in his heart is really love and not `pain'..  The author knows how to keep the reader interested and certainly caught my attention as from the very first page of this book I found it VERY difficult to put down. For pure joy and entertainment, you can't miss with this one! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for  [...] ---	2004-04-10
720616:US	45284807	R14VJK9R80R7UH	0821774409	381506827	Beyond My Dreams (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Action Historical Romance with Egyptian Background	Setting - Rosetta, Egypt 1799 --- Sent by his sovereign, King James of England, Gavin DeFoe, the Earl of Blackwell, and his trusted friend Connor were in Egypt trying to locate a crew of excavators to unearth a valuable artifact and untold riches that both King James and Napoleon Bonaparte were seeking.  Napoleon had pressed into labor most of the excavating crews so Gavin was forced to negotiating with Willie Tuggle, his last hope.  Having to pay double the fee, the Earl was not pleased to see this decrepit looking crew in which there didn't seem to be a man younger than 50 years old.  Gavin wasn't happy, but even less so having to wait for the leader, `Mac' to show up and to discover that `Mac' was in actuality MacKenzie --- tall, statuesque and of all things, a woman!  Gavin wanted nothing to do with a woman - he'd vowed never to trust another woman as long as he lived after marrying a woman, betrayed, then losing both her and his 3 year old son.  For the last six years he'd built a wall around his heart and though the very sight of this woman caused his blood to boil, he was determined to fight that attraction by being as obnoxious as he could - and this he did well!<br />Mac, had never before let a man affect her but one glance at this darkly handsome man and the attraction was both immediate and intense!  That glance had heated her body and caused her normally unflappable mind to wander to the wild side.  The dangers of the desert, and the dangers of being caught by Napoleon were secondary as compared to the dangers of succumbing to the tall dark and handsome earl. Knowing well the dangers, Mac was still determined to break through the wall guarding his heart, at the cost of losing her own.<br />This was a fast read and somewhat suspenseful.  The author set up quite a few adventures with some steamy scenes that should have left you squirming only to have the hero pulling back which after awhile became quite frustrating - hence the 4* versus a 5* rating.  Hilz's character development was good, and you will at once come to champion Mac, and want to kick Gavin in the butt to make him come to his senses to `seize the moment'.  The secondary characters, evidently from the first book of this series, worked well in the plot as they were the archaeologists that gave the story more credence. The rest of Mac's `crew' or `family' as she referred to them, and Mac's father were delightful.  This plot was good with colorful characters that I can recommend as a delightful light historical read.ilz's character development was good, and you will at once come to champion Mac, and want to kick Gavin in the butt to make him come to his senses to `seize the moment'.  The secondary characters, evidently from the first book of this series, worked well in the plot as they were the archaeologists that gave the story more credence. The rest of Mac's `crew' or `family' as she referred to them, and Mac's father were delightful.  This plot was good with colorful characters that I can recommend as a delightful light historical read.	2004-04-03
720961:US	45284807	R4H8749R8HZRO	0821776479	563248730	Mostly Married (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Outstanding Debut Novel	Setting - St. Abbs, Scotland  and Wakefeld, England  1823 --- As Lucas Holbrook, Duke of Wakefield emerged from  unconsciousness, several things were not making sense - one of them being why he was smelling sea air in his home at landlocked Longfeld Park.  The other thing was why the lovely green-eyed naked `goddess' sharing his bed was berating him for fighting and carousing the night before, and why on earth was she calling him Luke Martin instead of `your grace'.  As Lucas became more and more confused, Charity, Luke Martin's wife, began experiencing her worst nightmare.  There had always been the chance that the half-dead man her family had fished from the sea would regain memory of his past, but that he could forget her and the idyllic life they'd made, loving and working together in the past year, was horrifying especially now that she was certain that she was carrying his child!  She had planned to tell him about the babe, but this just didn't seem to be the time - when he couldn't seem to remember who she was or what they had meant to one another.<br />Charity realized that Luke, the man she'd loved and married, was much too honorable to ignore his former life and had to return to his family to let them all know he was alive and well, including his fianc&eacute;, Helena.  Charity had no choice but to let him go back to his world but she couldn't give up completely her hope of seeing him remember the life they'd shared together - the past year of paradise and dreams.  She concocted a plan to slip into his realm, emerging as his families' newest and dearest friend and neighbor, Miss Charity Williams.  Lucas, would be torn between the two women, one he had loved so well like a sister, and one whose fragrance and body he was beginning to remember so well!<br />Readers will be impressed and delighted with this outstanding debut novel of an author that I predict is a new star in the making.  Her well-developed characters sprang to life in this novel as the author gives us two compassionate, loving and totally honorable protagonists that you simply have to love as they both try to determine the right and honorable path to take over their respective emotional turmoil.  She liberally sprinkles in amusing and lovable and some villainous secondary characters, and keeps up the suspense of how and why this landlocked Duke ended up being fished out of the sea.  The love story is a joy and you will be entertained and satisfied from beginning to end!  I suggest that lovers of this historical romance genre put this author on their `watch' and `buy' lists! --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---us two compassionate, loving and totally honorable protagonists that you simply have to love as they both try to determine the right and honorable path to take over their respective emotional turmoil.  She liberally sprinkles in amusing and lovable and some villainous secondary characters, and keeps up the suspense of how and why this landlocked Duke ended up being fished out of the sea.  The love story is a joy and you will be entertained and satisfied from beginning to end!  I suggest that lovers of this historical romance genre put this author on their `watch' and `buy' lists! --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  ---	2004-04-03
726616:US	45284807	RYHDIWLDPJXG5	0553584243	548159070	Moon in the Water	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Beautiful and Tender Love Story on the Riverboat!	Chase Hardesty, had no idea why the Commodore of the shipping line he worked for had summoned him to his home and was stunned when he was offered the captaincy, and the chance to own the newest steamboat of the Gold Star line, the Andromeda.  The only thing he had to do was to marry the commodore's daughter.  A heady proposal for a young man with no prospects other than what could be earned as a riverboat pilot, and knowing there'd be strings attached, Chase cautiously agreed to meet the young woman.<br />Ann Rossiter, was most definitely brought up to be a lady of quality yet in her present state, four or so months pregnant, was not in any condition to dictate terms.  She needed to get out of her step-fathers's house;  to somehow secure her unborn child as well as her own future;  and a husband was definitely not in that future.  Ann, thinking that after her conversation with Chase, who had assured her he would not accept the bargain, was then astonished when her stepfather informed her that the wedding would be going forward the next afternoon.  Feeling betrayed again, and with little choice in the matter, Ann was married to Chase, who thought life would go on as usual and he'd be shipping out that afternoon.  But what he hadn't bargained for was that Ann would barge her way onto the Andromeda and demand to be taken along on the ride.  As the two, traversed the western rivers together, Ann would be drawn to his gentleness and quiet strength, as he was drawn to her courage, strength and beauty.  Attracted as she was, Ann would still keep her terrifying secret rather than be betrayed once more and when Ann's past revealed itself, would their marriage of convenience be able to weather the storm!<br />This was an absolutely wonderful story, rich in western Americana historical aspects that will provide the reader with a truly rewarding and visually stunning reading experience.  It is beautifully written with strong and well-defined characters, both main and secondary,  with deep emotional strengths. Her characters will become so real to you that right from the start you'll be rooting for Chase to break down the barriers and help Ann to heal her soul after being so bitterly used. This is a terrific story with a plot that will engage the reader from the very first pages until the very end.  It was a strong, tender and a beautifully satisfying love story that I heartily recommend!  ---  Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]ary,  with deep emotional strengths. Her characters will become so real to you that right from the start you'll be rooting for Chase to break down the barriers and help Ann to heal her soul after being so bitterly used. This is a terrific story with a plot that will engage the reader from the very first pages until the very end.  It was a strong, tender and a beautifully satisfying love story that I heartily recommend!  ---  Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-03-30
726619:US	45284807	R2NQ8STT7CULKV	0821774107	83948904	A Proper Mistress (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Pure Regency Delight	Theodore \\"Theo\\" Winslow is a second son. A young man who hero worships and does his best to emulate his elder wastrel of a brother.  Their father uses threats and intimidations to keep them in line by disinheriting and then re-inheriting the elder as a means of control.  Theo, thinking to put an end to their father's controlling tactics sets out to have himself disowned in order to have his elder brother reinstated.  His plan is to bring home a thoroughly crass and totally unsuitable `bride' and so goes to Sallie Ellis' brothel where he negotiates for one of her `working girls' to pose as his intended.  Sallie, not having any `working girls' to spare, coerces her cook, the very young and beautiful virgin - Molly Sweet to take on the position.  Molly, born a lady but through a twist of fate, found herself employed in the brothel as a cook had a dream of one day buying and cooking in her own inn. Sallie knew this and used that knowledge as a bargaining chip.  So with the tempting offer of fifty pounds for a few days work - Sallie convinced Molly to think of the next few days as a holiday `posing and dressing' as a doxy without having to do any of the physical requirements.<br />Initially, both Theo and Molly agree to this as nothing more than a business arrangement, but as Molly began slipping in and out of a doxy -like character, Theo finds he is beginning to want a few more liberties.  His sweet Miss Sweet is beginning to worm her way into his devil-may-care heart and he finds he just may want to get a little more personal.  And, after a few of Theo's kisses, Molly who'd never been kissed before, wouldn't have minded a few more of those kisses herself!<br />This Regency novel by Shannon Donnelly's is a wonderfully satisfying, deftly plotted delight. The excellent characterizations of the lead protagonists are handled in a way that will endear the sweet \\"Miss Sweet' into the readers heart.  The humor of the double entendres that Theo whips past Molly is really cute and superbly handled by this author. Molly is a sweetheart and under her tutelage Theo finally grew up! If I have any complaint at all, it is that it ended too soon as it was such a warm and fuzzy read one just wanted it to last forever. --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ----and superbly handled by this author. Molly is a sweetheart and under her tutelage Theo finally grew up! If I have any complaint at all, it is that it ended too soon as it was such a warm and fuzzy read one just wanted it to last forever. --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ----	2004-03-30
730498:US	45284807	R24CK51PLGP5E7	0425193888	937617103	The Linnet (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Not a WOW but a good read!	Setting - Scottish Borderlands, Chevron Hills, 1379 --- Beginning with a descriptive prologue the reader will at once see that Lady Maude Darnley has reason to have acquired her reputation as being cold, difficult, and despising the male species. Fergus, the healer who found and nursed her physical body back to life, now seven years later, lay dying and disturbed with the knowledge that he hadn't completed the healing.  Fergus knew he had no choice but to send his apprentice, the minstrel Ronan Fitzgerald to complete the task he'd left undone and without telling him exactly what he had to heal after having sworn an oath to Lady Maude's father that he would never reveal to another living soul that Maude had been violated.<br />Ronan Fitzgerald had been a traveling minstrel, with a gift for healing and promised Fergus that he would go to Lord Darnley and do what was asked of him.  His introduction to Lady Maude was less than auspicious as with her cutting tongue she did her best to drive him away.  Ronan saw beyond the rapier sharp tongue and having an innate sense that made him such a good healer, he saw beneath the bravado and recognized her terror by listening, really listening to the music he heard her play. As he came to care deeply for her, and with the clans ready to annihilate one another at the least provocation, Ronan would have to reach her before her terror would drive her completely over the edge and her father calling an all-out war against the Kirallen's.<br />THE LINNET is a powerful story of bitter rage and survival.  Maude who was depicted in the previous novels (BORDER BRIDE and LAIRD OF THE MIST) as cold and self-centered, in this last of the trilogy is fully exposed and dissected.  Ronan, the wandering minstrel, whose loyalties were with the Kirallen's is forced by his oath to Fergus to go to the Darnley's where he happily discovered that there is more to the Lady Maude than most people knew. Intrigued, even though at first attracted by her beauty, he fell in love with her strength and bravery and prays that what skill he has can show her the way to love and trust.<br />While the author does an admirable job with the characterizations and motivations in this book I, didn't find as much action and adventure in this as the first two novels. What I thought might prove to be a key suspense and motivational factor of a proposed betrothal between Maude and a neighboring laird, it was never developed and just lay there.  However, the love story with Ronan was lovely, as Maude learned to trust again, but unlike the first two novels of this series, it does not rate a WOW but simply a good read.  --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  --ty, he fell in love with her strength and bravery and prays that what skill he has can show her the way to love and trust.  <br />While the author does an admirable job with the characterizations and motivations in this book I, didn't find as much action and adventure in this as the first two novels. What I thought might prove to be a key suspense and motivational factor of a proposed betrothal between Maude and a neighboring laird, it was never developed and just lay there.  However, the love story with Ronan was lovely, as Maude learned to trust again, but unlike the first two novels of this series, it does not rate a WOW but simply a good read.   --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]  --	2004-03-27
731208:US	45284807	R17E346P7RRZ2Z	042519406X	580166595	The Wicked Lover	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Wickedly Good Read	Robert Sinclair \\"Dove\\" Dovenby arrives home to a public street bonfire in front of his townhouse as it was being fed with articles of his wardrobe.  Adding to the fire with great relish is his infuriated mistress, Lady Margaret, Countess of Grenham - or should I say FORMER infuriated mistress. Along with some stunningly brilliant repartees and laughingly adding to the fire himself `the Dove' discovers from Lady Margaret just why she is so incensed.<br />Entering his abode, he finds not only a young maid, but a young gentleman, tied spread-eagled to his bed.  The explanations from the `young man' were that he and the maid were attempting to win a wager by stealing an article of clothing from the famous but elusive Dove when they were caught and bound up by his mistress. Dove recognized that the `young man' was in disguise and not a young man at all and after losing his mistress would play along with the game in order to discover just what these two had really come to his establishment to find.<br />The `young man' was in reality, the Countess Sylvie Georgiana, who had for years worked as a spy for the Duke of Yveshires.  The duke being the Dove's nemesis - sworn to destroy him for the ruination and death of his younger brother, Lord Edward Vane (from THE SEDUCTION).  Of course at the time, the Dove did not know whom she worked for but recognized at once that the story was a cover for her real purpose, otherwise, why the disguise?  He also thought that the bravery exhibited by the `young man' was admirable and while he was intrigued he also felt a stronger pull of desire, that he'd not felt for any woman quite like this before.  He decided that since the `young lad' George White had caused him to lose his wardrobe he would make him pay his debt by working as his secretary.  And so begins an enticingly passionate game of subterfuge as the spy becomes spied upon and the Dove begins a very dangerous game of seduction with a woman who has sworn an oath to discover enough of his secrets to destroy him.  As the game is played, she fights her gut feelings of his innocence as even as she promises the duke that her aim was to destroy him. As the seduction becomes more and more intense, her heart and emotions are engaged as so are the Dove's.<br />This is a truly enticing Georgian period tale woven with some very erotic and sensual scenes and dialogs.  The action is replete with twists and turns that will engage your emotions.  A plot where not everyone is as they seem and a colorful supporting cast make this a truly robust and exciting read. The lead protagonists are brilliantly crafted, with Sylvie being a brittle and cold hearted professional, and the Dove - charming, brilliant, compassionate AND a wickedly good lover!  The three days spent behind closed doors could most definitely be described as a culinary feast for lovers of sensual delights. This book is highly recommended! ---  Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---ough of his secrets to destroy him.  As the game is played, she fights her gut feelings of his innocence as even as she promises the duke that her aim was to destroy him. As the seduction becomes more and more intense, her heart and emotions are engaged as so are the Dove's.  <br />This is a truly enticing Georgian period tale woven with some very erotic and sensual scenes and dialogs.  The action is replete with twists and turns that will engage your emotions.  A plot where not everyone is as they seem and a colorful supporting cast make this a truly robust and exciting read. The lead protagonists are brilliantly crafted, with Sylvie being a brittle and cold hearted professional, and the Dove - charming, brilliant, compassionate AND a wickedly good lover!  The three days spent behind closed doors could most definitely be described as a culinary feast for lovers of sensual delights. This book is highly recommended! ---  Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-03-26
732629:US	45284807	R1W9MC92IEF0FE	0821774220	851675892	Just Perfect (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A PERFECTLY  Warm and Wonderful Read!	Setting - Shropshire, England 1804 --- Ian Denham, Marquis of Kearny and Mallory, at the request of his cousin Martin Gazenby, travels to Shropshire to visit his cousin and wife Anne who have enticed him to visit with the excuse of attending a horse auction for a most sought after yearling. In reality, Martin and Anne are really engineering a bit of matchmaking on the highly eligible Marquis.  Anne believes that her very best friend, Hannah Thorne, sister to the feared Duke of Berinwick, would be a perfect match for her cousin Ian.  The problem with Anne is that when most suitors discover whom her brother is, they generally run in the opposite direction.  Ian, on the other hand, isn't really in the market for a bride, but when he meets the beautiful and strong-willed Anne, who is nothing like the simpering Misses and their overbearing mamas he's been accustomed to fending off, he finds himself immediately attracted.<br />During the visit a murder occurs on the Duke's estate and at one point even Ian is suspect. Along with the murder other events occur where Ian's life seems to be threatened and Anne who feels the same attraction is determined to keep him safe.  With numerous gentlemen in town for the auction, everyone is fearful and everyone is trying to uncover who the murderer is and if it might be the same person trying to harm the Marquis. To top things off, a young 8 year old lad enters the arena which  has everyone thinking he might have some connection as to why the young lady was murdered.<br />This is the second book in this latest trilogy by master wordsmith Judith Lansdowne that can completely stand alone. Although, if you do have the opportunity to read it in sequence you will find yourself enjoying it more!  Added to the plot already described are numerous secondary characters, along with wonderful animals that make this novel as robust and enjoyable as ever especially when the eccentric and belligerent brother of our heroine, the Duke, inherits an 8-year-old precocious ward.  The by-play between the family members is so honest to goodness sweet that, other than the mystery of solving a murder and preventing another, I found myself with a perpetual smile on my face.  I read  this book in one sitting as it was simply impossible for me to put down!  The dialogs, between the characters are simply delightful and the descriptive prose is so real I feel like I am watching a movie.  For me, this book, JUST PERFECT was just perfect in a most enjoyable way! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official ...year-old precocious ward.  The by-play between the family members is so honest to goodness sweet that, other than the mystery of solving a murder and preventing another, I found myself with a perpetual smile on my face.  I read  this book in one sitting as it was simply impossible for me to put down!  The dialogs, between the characters are simply delightful and the descriptive prose is so real I feel like I am watching a movie.  For me, this book, JUST PERFECT was just perfect in a most enjoyable way! --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official ...	2004-03-25
734226:US	45284807	RZUEKJ6P9TFSJ	0821774239	315109472	Just Impossible (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Fun, poignant, and an absolutely splendid read!	Setting - London, England 1814 ---  William Thorne, Duke of Berinwick, was missing an eye due to a childhood accident.  Growing up he survived the cruel taunts of his fellow playmates adopting such a belligerent and fearsome attitude that people walked in fear of him never realizing that under the prickly veneer beat a heart of pure gold.  Those not privy to the real duke, believed the tales of his surliness - which were embellished way beyond the truth in the re-telling - so much so that he was known to be the `Beast of Barren Wycche.'<br />In the previous two books of this delightful trilogy we have seen his mother and sister settled in loving marriages, and Elf, his ward off to Oxford.  Life is lonely but that changes suddenly when a proud and prickly beauty, Julia Delacroix, enters his life hoping to sell a treasured heirloom to him. Her agenda included not only gaining the necessary funds to launch her beloved niece into society but more importantly to destroy the man who she held responsible for the ruination and death of her eldest sister.  So being, and uncovering her true motives this absolutely wonderful hero of ours, will take up her cause stating.......\\"I am the Beast from Barren Wycche.  I am impertinent, audacious and feared. I possess enormous power and cunning and a rapier more deadly than any pistol. And though I cannot explain why, I find that I am at your service, body and soul. By gawd, woman, make use of me!\\"...<br />Again, I found myself immersed in this wonderful book that I could not put down.  Although the romance builds slowly - as it should -  while Julia discovers little by little the secrets contained in the heart of this audacious duke, the story is fast-paced.  Filled with intrigue, wonderful characterizations and outstanding dialogs, the reader will come to love and root for this impossible but wonderful hero.  There are memorable dialogs, and statements galore that will simply warm your heart and make you sigh with pleasure.  This is fun, poignant, and an absolutely splendid read that I highly recommend. --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---is fun, poignant, and an absolutely splendid read that I highly recommend. --- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-03-24
735723:US	45284807	R1H87URFI5QH6F	0821774212	207526336	Just In Time (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Poetic, humourous and a BEAUTIFUL love story	Setting - Shropshire, England 1795 ---  Richard Dempsey, a clergyman and scholar had been invited by the Duke of Berinwick to become the new rector for St. Milburga's of the Wood.  Due to the time it took him to arrive from his other pursuits, the Duke who offered him the living has died and his son William Thorne, a rather sullen young man, is now the new Duke of Berinwick.  First impressions being what they were, it was then not surprising that he and the duke did not immediately hit it off very well as Richard's hound, Theophilus attacked the duke's boot - particularly since the Duke was still wearing it.<br />It is not long before Richard discovers that Williams mother, the dowager Duchess Veronica, was the young girl that he'd fallen in love with at the age of seven. In his eyes every bit as beautiful as long ago, but with her eyes revealing the pain of harboring a mother's secret.  Soon Richard and the family's faithful and devoted retainers would be swept into keeping Veronica, along with William and his younger sister Hannah, safe from the madman that had engineered the previous duke's murder.  A murder that up until then had been thought to be an accident.<br />For those readers who look for `classic' regency tales that provide pure entertainment with humor, adventure, and elegant prose, you need look no further.  I have found this author to fit the bill in all aspects when looking for just that.  Out of the ordinary, are the two main protagonists as they are in the `autumn' of their lives with a second chance at love.  You will also find undeniably sweet, the words that every 40 plus woman would love to hear.... \\"You must be the most beautiful woman ever created by God, and every year of your life, God has added to your beauty inside and out until now, at the very sight of you, my heart cries aloud in wonder...\\" Poetic, humorous - you'll just love the old hound Thoephilus - and a truly wonderful `love' story.  This was a really lovely read! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---ed by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-03-23
735757:US	45284807	RXTKFK3TPPQTI	0821774220	851675892	Just Perfect (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect for me in EVERY Way!!	Setting - Shropshire, England 1804 --- Ian Denham, Marquis of Kearny and Mallory, at the request of his cousin Martin Gazenby, travels to Shropshire to visit his cousin and wife Anne who have enticed him to visit with the excuse of attending a horse auction for a most sought after yearling. In reality, Martin and Anne are really engineering a bit of matchmaking on the highly eligible Marquis.  Anne believes that her very best friend, Hannah Thorne, sister to the feared Duke of Berinwick, would be a perfect match for her cousin Ian.  The problem with Anne is that when most suitors discover whom her brother is, they generally run in the opposite direction.  Ian, on the other hand, isn't really in the market for a bride, but when he meets the beautiful and strong-willed Anne, who is nothing like the simpering Misses and their overbearing mamas he's been accustomed to fending off, he finds himself immediately attracted.  <br />During the visit a murder occurs on the Duke's estate and at one point even Ian is suspect. Along with the murder other events occur where Ian's life seems to be threatened and Anne who feels the same attraction is determined to keep him safe.  With numerous gentlemen in town for the auction, everyone is fearful and everyone is trying to uncover who the murderer is and if it might be the same person trying to harm the Marquis. To top things off, a young 8 year old lad enters the arena which  has everyone thinking he might have some connection as to why the young lady was murdered.<br />This is the second book in this latest trilogy by master wordsmith Judith Lansdowne that can completely stand alone. Although, if you do have the opportunity to read it in sequence you will find yourself enjoying it more!  Added to the plot already described are numerous secondary characters, along with wonderful animals that make this novel as robust and enjoyable as ever especially when the eccentric and belligerent brother of our heroine, the Duke, inherits an 8-year-old precocious ward.  The by-play between the family members is so honest to goodness sweet that, other than the mystery of solving a murder and preventing another, I found myself with a perpetual smile on my face.  I read  this book in one sitting as it was simply impossible for me to put down!  The dialogs, between the characters are simply delightful and the descriptive prose is so real I feel like I am watching a movie.  For me, this book, JUST PERFECT was just perfect in a most enjoyable way! ...	2004-03-23
742328:US	45284807	R764F4XV9ZEYG	0060092149	56850698	Married to the Viscount (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 5)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Undeniably Charming and Witty	Setting, 1822, England and America --- The Viscount Ravenswood, Spencer Law, was in America with his younger brother &quot;Nat&quot; to investigate a business prospect with the owner and his daughter Abigail of Mercer Medical Company.  Abby, soon demonstrated that American woman were a different breed from the insipid British aristocracy he was used to and Spencer letting go of some his normally reserved ways, was entranced. His brother Nat soon discovered that although, Spencer was intrigued with the lovely American,  he would not act upon his attraction convinced that because of a war injury, he could `never' marry and beget an heir. On the eve of sailing home to England and bemoaning the fact that he would probably never see Abigail again, Nat, witnessed Spencer's uncharacteristic lapse of both getting foxed and quoting Byron's poetry in describing the lovely American and decided that he couldn't let this opportunity slip by.<br />Some months later, Spencer, was highly irritated that Nat had failed to show up for his betrothal dinner to Lady Eveline.  He was furious at having to make excuses to her for his  brother's tardiness when he was informed by his butler that he had an uninvited female visitor.  A visitor claiming to be, of all things, Lady Ravenswood, his wife!  Unaware of Nat's machinations, Abigail smilingly informed him that before sailing home a month earlier, his brother Nat had stood up for him and had married Spencer and her `By Proxy'. Evidently, it turned out that his brother Nat had forged documents in Spencer's name and now it appeared that he had absconded with Abigail's dowry.  With the surprise announcement of their being a `Lady Ravenswood' made in front of the biggest gossip columnist in London, and in order to avoid a scandal over his brothers seemingly nefarious deed, a furious Spencer convinces Abby to go along with the ruse until he can locate Nat, get Abby's inheritance back to her, and extricate himself from this beautiful and too attractive `bride'.<br />Written with undeniable charm, humor and a beautifully scripted sensual love story, this latest offering by the master word-smith, Sabrina Jeffries, is sure to be a hit for the dedicated fans of this author. While I was really furious at times with Spencer's high handedness in dealing with the innocent and duped Abby, I forgave him at the end as the author skillfully wrote him a beautiful and touching redemption.  The sensuality was really hot, especially the scene where Spencer fought so hard against his base inclination to ravage his wife, and she so innocently convinced him that they could just be `playing'.  The dialog was witty and skillfully crafted secondary characters all added to making this a completely wonderful romance that will leave you feeling warm and fuzzy. - Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---ttractive `bride'.<br />Written with undeniable charm, humor and a beautifully scripted sensual love story, this latest offering by the master word-smith, Sabrina Jeffries, is sure to be a hit for the dedicated fans of this author. While I was really furious at times with Spencer's high handedness in dealing with the innocent and duped Abby, I forgave him at the end as the author skillfully wrote him a beautiful and touching redemption.  The sensuality was really hot, especially the scene where Spencer fought so hard against his base inclination to ravage his wife, and she so innocently convinced him that they could just be `playing'.  The dialog was witty and skillfully crafted secondary characters all added to making this a completely wonderful romance that will leave you feeling warm and fuzzy. - Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-03-17
744251:US	45284807	RB1LLTQJH7W80	0451206959	19020224	The Wedding Journey (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Provocative and Compelling Read!	Setting - Spain Napoleonic War circa 1816 --- Set during the siege as English troops retreated to the Portugal border is this most alluring, sensitive and evocative regency that I've read in quite some time.  The story begins with a prelude and introduces us to a sprightly 10 year old daughter of a career soldier and his sickly wife. Elinore `Nell' Mason at the age of 10 is more the caretaker of the family than her father, the irresponsible sergeant Bertie Mason and his long suffering wife. She is taken in hand by the kindly Chief of the medical unit, Captain Sheffield, who gives her chores that she tackles with remarkable determination and perseverance of one so young.<br />Captain Jesse Randall, is a young intern who admires the young child then goes off, assigned to Canada for 8 years, returning battle hardened and then finding that Nell, the child, has grown into a beautiful young lady. Jesse, who is as renowned for his medical skill and dedication to his patients, is also renowned as well for his unassuming manner and intense shyness towards the girl he has come to love.<br />Upon the death of Nell's mother, her father is compelled to barter her off to the despicable Major Bones, if he cannot produce the monies that Bones advanced to him. In trying to save Nell from this fate, Jesse is somewhat (even though he's been in love with her for two years) coerced into a quickie marriage so that her father cannot trade her off to pay his debts. In response to Jesse upsetting his plans, the odious Major makes sure that Jesse and Nell's medical unit gets left behind, and on there own as the French advanced and the main English army retreated.<br />The `journey' then, was a remarkably written tale of the rag tag bunch of, physically and emotionally wounded men that made the journey, their various adventures and their individual growth so very outstanding. Not your usual bit of fluff regency but one with full body and fully developed characters whose lives all changed during the `journey'. Elinore \\"Nell\\" is a heroine who will certainly claim a piece of your heart as she claimed Jesse's. Jesse's shyness over the love he felt for Nell, that he couldn't believe would ever be returned was so sweet, you'll just want to cry. Harper and Wilkie, Jesse and Nell's self-appointed bodyguards were also a delight and you will cheer as I did, that the comeuppance for the odious Major Bones came to such a wonderful conclusion. Again, this was a very provocative and compelling read that I HIGHLY suggest be placed at the top of your reading lists! -- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]uring the `journey'. Elinore \\"Nell\\" is a heroine who will certainly claim a piece of your heart as she claimed Jesse's. Jesse's shyness over the love he felt for Nell, that he couldn't believe would ever be returned was so sweet, you'll just want to cry. Harper and Wilkie, Jesse and Nell's self-appointed bodyguards were also a delight and you will cheer as I did, that the comeuppance for the odious Major Bones came to such a wonderful conclusion. Again, this was a very provocative and compelling read that I HIGHLY suggest be placed at the top of your reading lists! -- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-03-16
745875:US	45284807	R18BV7ON5DPSH9	045121028X	941789838	Under a Wild Sky	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Super Sensual Fantasy Debut Novel!	This book cover description describes the heroine Kalial, as the princess guardian of a legendary forest, dressing in male garb who is mental-telepathy bonded with her companion, a Scottish McCat.  She also `speaks' to other forest animals who along with her band of forest men help her to keep people fearful of entering the darkly haunted forest of Loch Nidean.<br />Ronin, a battered warrior, on the run from enemies who have brutally slain his family seeks refuge from his enemies in her woods.  Kalial and her forest men attack him, but being a much larger and much stronger warrior, Ronin skillfully repels his attackers.  Outnumbered, he boldly seizes their `boy-leader' as a hostage to hold them off.  He does not realize until much later, that this small, stubbornly fierce `boy' is actually a beautiful woman who kindles in him a passion that sets them both aflame.  As they travel the land together, they will defy their enemies, share numerous adventures, and finally come to realize that along the way they've developed a respect and trust in each another that bonds their true souls in a pre-ordained destiny.<br />For a debut novel of 400 plus pages I was truly thrilled that it captured my imagination so quickly and I became so enthralled with the characters and the adventure that the pages just flew by.  Both central protagonists were complex yet skillfully developed.  The use of the animals and the mind links will definitely be appealing to the animal lovers out there who enjoy this type of fantasy.  Who amongst us wouldn't like to have a little mind link with their pets.  In so far as some rather explicit sexual encounters - they do push the envelope a bit but the love story between the two central characters is so great that the raw sensuality was for me extraordinarily written and felt.  I am sincerely looking forward to future endeavors by this new author and based upon the sneak peak excerpt of her next novel featuring the daughter of these two amazing people, it is sure to be a winner!  --- Submitted by Marilyn, ...it is sure to be a winner!   --- Submitted by Marilyn, ...	2004-03-15
748122:US	45284807	RMNY7BLBUZ7HD	006051969X	448727659	The Duchess Diaries	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Darling Debut to an Enjoyable Series	Lara Darling is both a `darling' heroine and a sometimes - actually quite often - walking disaster whose exuberance for life gets her into so much trouble.  Lara can't quite back off from anything, especially if someone says, \\"I dare you!\\"  It is these words precisely that came to Lara through her dear and loving grandmother's will and diaries that convince her to go to London for one season to find a wealthy husband.  Finding a husband  is the last thing Lady Lara Darling ever wanted to do! Why, she'd have to behave like a lady - not drive a coach, not shoot guns, or even swear - my goodness!  But her grandmother knew her granddaughter best and with that dare in mind, Lara set out.<br />Before Lara even arrived in London, she is somewhat impressed by a daring feat of driving of a coach and four by a driver known as `The Baron', Griff Hallsbury.  Griff, the coachman was devastatingly handsome and something of a mystery and probably the first man Lara had ever been attracted to.  Lara was overheard to boast that the driving feat could be accomplished by herself and just had to prove it.  Griff, not forgetting his once elevated station in life realized how if it became known who she was it could ruin her before she ever reached London.  Pretending she was a `Mrs. Hastings', he came to her rescue and alleviated her first social disaster.  Their paths would cross several times during the season as he always seemed to `be there' when she needed him yet the mystery of who he was and the undeniable attraction between them would grow as well as Lara's frustration that she just would never find a husband or be happy as a wife. As she soon recognized her love for Griff, she was recognized and blackmailed by people from Griff's past that were seeking revenge by placing them in a race to humiliate him and unmask her.  Both would then have to `race' to save the other.<br />I found this to be a totally delightful, fast paced and immensely enjoyable light-hearted romance with just a light touch of suspense and danger.  The lead couple was absolutely made for each other and their chemistry was skillfully written.  The addition of the grandmother's diary entries was a nice touch that gives the readers insight into the characters and their relationship.  The secondary character development of Lara's sisters was a very key and enjoyable entry into the plot and the reader will, as I do, look forward to a continuation of the series as the Darling sisters foray into town for love and romance.  The author uses great imagery, witty dialogs, and unusual situations that will leave you chuckling  - the `unfortunate incident' with Lord Cartwright is an absolute hoot not to be missed.  Bottom line, this is going to be a wonderful series if the first book is any indication of what's in store for the rest of these `darling' sisters! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---ust a light touch of suspense and danger.  The lead couple was absolutely made for each other and their chemistry was skillfully written.  The addition of the grandmother's diary entries was a nice touch that gives the readers insight into the characters and their relationship.  The secondary character development of Lara's sisters was a very key and enjoyable entry into the plot and the reader will, as I do, look forward to a continuation of the series as the Darling sisters foray into town for love and romance.   The author uses great imagery, witty dialogs, and unusual situations that will leave you chuckling  - the `unfortunate incident' with Lord Cartwright is an absolute hoot not to be missed.   Bottom line, this is going to be a wonderful series if the first book is any indication of what's in store for the rest of these `darling' sisters! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-03-13
750070:US	45284807	R1U2VOU037NYX7	0060092971	763359005	The Seduction of an English Lady (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lovely Regency Romance	Setting - Lancashire, England 1816 ---- Lady Roslyn, resided at  Maiden Hill along with a small staff and her companion Covey.  Since coming to the area she had, as the daughter of an earl, though impoverished, established herself as the driving force behind the country gentry's social and charitable works.  Suddenly she found that her cousin George had sold Maiden Hill out from under her to satisfy his gambling debts.  The new owner, war hero, Colonel Colin Mandland, local boy made good, had come to take possession of the property. Rosalyn, shocked and furious, took the Colonel's deed, after slamming the door in his face, and refused to allow him to enter.  She ran to the reigning head of the local aristocracy, Lord Loftus,  to see if they could do anything to help her.  Legally, there was nothing to be done but all her friends thought that a quick solution would be for the two to marry.  Lord Loftus even sweetened the pot for the colonel by offering him a seat in the House of Commons, a post Colin secretly coveted.<br />Naturally, Lady Roslyn's automatic reaction (even though Colin is the most handsome man she's ever been attracted to) is to refuse, and so begins Colin's battle plan to court and seduce the lady.  Until the first kiss, neither really wanted the other but both saw that the 'marriage of convenience' might gain them each something they did want.  What they both soon discovered though was that what they both 'thought' they wanted would  be eclipsed by what they both needed and love and passion was an equation that would surprise them both with a sweet and enduring intensity.<br />I have been a long time fan of this author and  'The Seduction of an English Lady' proves again that anyone looking for a quality Regency romance will find it easily when penned by Cathy Maxwell.  Our lead protagonists are a delight even though the premise of neither wanting the other is an often-used scenario with pride and lack of communication being at the root of the problem.  Readers will be delighted with the liberally sprinkled cast of well-developed secondary characters, both human and animal, that give this romance an added spark of humor and find a deep satisfaction in the sensual, lovely and deeply caring romantic love story.  --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---roblem.  Readers will be delighted with the liberally sprinkled cast of well-developed secondary characters, both human and animal, that give this romance an added spark of humor and find a deep satisfaction in the sensual, lovely and deeply caring romantic love story.     --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...] ---	2004-03-11
751408:US	45284807	R240YX0Y5WNXD7	0425194566	883260134	Souvenir of Love (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Great Reading and an Author to Watch	Shed always been headstrong and hard to control but one thing Elizabeth Harcrest knew as she was growing up was that she really attracted to the very handsome James Dinsmore. Unfortunately, as the years have progressed, James leading the life of a rake is not what her brother Rafe deems as suitable husband material for her even though at one time, Rafe had been courting James sister, Lady Anne.  Now, Lady Anne Dinsmore is out for revenge. Anne had fully expected Rafe to have asked for her hand.  Only just before he formally offered, Rafe had met, rescued and fell in love with a beautiful French &eacute;migr&eacute;.  Devoted to Anne, James agreed to go along with her hateful plan of embarrassing Rafe by setting up a tableau that put Elizabeth in a compromising situation.  In retribution, Rafe challenged James to a duel of honor where he gained some satisfaction in giving James a scar to remind him of the cur he was.<br />Convalescing, James soon comes to realize that his sisters revenge has left a bitter taste in his mouth.  He is finding it hard to erase the memories of Elizabeth - her lips and her body from his mind. Therefore, when he is approached to undertake a dangerous mission for the home office by going to war torn France to rescue a man vital to helping England win the war his guilt and remorse over the part hed played in harming Elizabeth compel him to agree.  What a kick in the butt to find that he would have to work with her brother  to set up the network to succeed.  Elizabeth learning of James mission, and hurt that he never asked for her hand in marriage, blackmails him to take her along for the adventure and to teach James a lesson.  As the danger and adventures increase, they both come to learn the lessons that only involved hearts can teach.<br />This sequel to SOUVENIR COUNTESS (Rafes story) picks up wonderfully from where it left off and continues this wonderful tale with settings in France during the dangerous and tumultuous time of the French Revolution.  James previously portrayed as an unconscionable rake, has an epiphany of sorts after realizing how going along with his obnoxious sister has ruined an innocent  a person that he realizes he has feelings for.  Elizabeth also comes to the conclusion that her self-centered actions not only hurt herself  but those she loved.  The secondary characters - the team assembled to help James in rescuing the French &eacute;migr&eacute;  - were all fully developed and set the stage for the next sequel.  Fast paced, amusing, sensual and thoroughly entertaining fully describe this authors latest novel.  The author leaves me with much anticipation to see what happens next and I am so looking forward to the next novel, in this series. Also note that if you have not read the first book of this series, SOUVENIR OF LOVE  can most certainly stand-alone.  This was a wonderful and inspiring addition to a new and outstanding authors historical romance series that I fully recommend to lovers of this sub-genre.  -- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]the French Revolution.  James previously portrayed as an unconscionable rake, has an epiphany of sorts after realizing how going along with his obnoxious sister has ruined an innocent  a person that he realizes he has feelings for.  Elizabeth also comes to the conclusion that her self-centered actions not only hurt herself  but those she loved.  The secondary characters - the team assembled to help James in rescuing the French migr  - were all fully developed and set the stage for the next sequel.  Fast paced, amusing, sensual and thoroughly entertaining fully describe this authors latest novel.  The author leaves me with much anticipation to see what happens next and I am so looking forward to the next novel, in this series. Also note that if you have not read the first book of this series, SOUVENIR OF LOVE  can most certainly stand-alone.   This was a wonderful and inspiring addition to a new and outstanding authors historical romance series that I fully recommend to lovers of this sub-genre.  -- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-03-10
765355:US	45284807	R2L959OAFYACFY	0975126407	198529249	The Rose of York: Love &  War	Books	5	194	201	N	N	A Marvelous Treat for Lovers of HISTORICAL Romance	THE ROSE OF YORK: `Love and War' is the debut novel of Sandra Worth that reads a lot  like a historical text or master's thesis on the life and times of the very much-maligned King Richard III (1452-1485). Richard III was King for only two years, and in this first novel of a planned trilogy, Ms. Worth chronicles brilliantly his all too brief childhood and the events and the people that molded him into the thoughtful and insightful young man he became.  It is powerful; it is heartbreaking; and it is a beautifully told love story that depicts an often frightened man constantly torn by love and honor for family, friends and especially the one woman who was his hearts desire.  The historical aspects will give you insights that the casual historical fiction reader has probably never thought of, as I can surely attest to.  Whereas I can normally devour a book in a day, this one took me a longer as I had to keep referencing other sources on the lineage of royals.  But, oh for the lovers of history, and for those looking forward to a most passionate story of love, this for you is a marvelous treat!<br />The author shows us Richard as a lonely young fellow who idolized his cousin John of Montagu, who looked to the Earl of Warwick as a surrogate father and fell in love with the Earl's daughter, Anne Neville.  It was a horrible age where brother went against brother as politics, greed, and marriages entered into the mix.  Richard would have to make the heart wrenching decision to choose sides and it appeared that his love for Anne would fall victim to politics, and family loyalty.<br />Richard is painted as a truly good, honorable and kind youth who became a pawn, used and abused by his brother, the King, Edward IV.  The choices he made for honor and love of kin, at a cost to his own heartache will leave you shaking your head and wiping tears of sympathy for the injustices of that period - not only for him but also for Anne.<br />Whether intentional or not, I found that the secondary romance between John Neville, Lord Montagu and his wife Isobel to be pure poetry.  The love depicted between John and his wife, who was also such a special friend to Richard, was depicted so beautifully that it simply took my breath away.<br />I am definitely looking forward to the next book in this planned trilogy and if the tone and finesse imbued in this, her debut novel is any indication of what to expect we are all in for a marvelous treat.  ---- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]the secondary romance between John Neville, Lord Montagu and his wife Isobel to be pure poetry.  The love depicted between John and his wife, who was also such a special friend to Richard, was depicted so beautifully that it simply took my breath away. <br />I am definitely looking forward to the next book in this planned trilogy and if the tone and finesse imbued in this, her debut novel is any indication of what to expect we are all in for a marvelous treat.  ---- Submitted by Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-29
767349:US	45284807	R34OOSZ8S6DOH1	0060538783	419382234	Legendary Warrior (Warrior Series)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	No Secrets Here - This is a GREAT Read!	Setting Ireland 1500s --- Reena Cullen grew up on stories of the \\"Legend\\", a warrior, fierce, proud and feared; one who often didn't have to fight as his mere presence would send enemies running for their lives as the tales of his ferociousness and lack of mercy to his enemies preceded him. Reena, fearing the worst to come was no coward, and when the plight of her village was so critical from the cruel and heartless Earl of Culberry, she knew that the \\"Legend\\" would be the only person who could save them. Dressed as a young lad, she set out to find him.<br />Not far from home, she would encounter a knight, totally garbed in black astride a charging stallion as Reena was struck with fear and unable to move. He swooped down and plucked her onto his saddle thinking her young lad. Not wanting to deceive him, she pulled off the concealing cap to show that she was female and not a `lad' as he had assumed by her slight and undernourished figure. Offering her mapmaking skills she bargained with him for his protection and assistance for the people of her village. Magnus, the \\"Legend\\", was impressed with both her courage, first in seeking him out, and her mapmaking drawing skills. He agreed never thinking that, this skinny, independent and brave slip of a girl would soon capture his heart. For Reena, it was a matter of accepting as a package the gentle man Magnus from the fearsome &quot;Legend&quot;<br />This was a romance in every sense of the word. The hero was divinely handsome, strong, brave and gentle, and the heroine wonderfully gifted, intelligent and selfless. It wasn't a love at first glance all-consuming passionate encounter, but a very deep and satisfying love story that took its time to develop as each came to admire and love one another for who and what they were. The writing was fresh, spontaneous and with enough mystery to keep you turning the pages to discover the `secrets' behind the Legendary Warrior. Readers will find this to be a lovely, comfortable and totally satisfying read. --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]totally satisfying read. --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-27
767799:US	45284807	R2VO6J55GCZTYM	0446611123	417526138	The Warrior	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Awesome Read -  Very Clever and Totally Satisfying	Setting - Scotland - 1409 --- When the young Michael Lammergeier, son of Gawain Lammergeier and Eglantine Armstrong, and more importantly the seventh son born in succession of Magnus Armstrong came to claim his inheritance he was met in the forest by an aged crone, Adaira.  Taunting him and then in a most unorthodox manner she embraced and kissed him showing him visions of another time and the love of  a woman whom he would forever compare memories to any future damsels he would meet.<br />Nineteen years later, having heard of the daughter Aileen of the Lord of Abernye, older and unwed, Michael, now notoriously known as the `Hawk' upon spying her was struck with the knowledge that she was `known' to him.  Aileen having no illusions of her `plainness' only sensed how disturbing it was to have this man so intently staring at her. Arranging to have her show him her father's keep, they shared a kiss that evoked visions to Aileen's mind that frightened yet were not altogether unpleasant to her. That very night, the Hawk -  man of action, managed to drug the people in the keep, grabbed Aileen from her pallet, then coerced the priest to wed them that very night.  Not a romantic courtship but effective in establishing a sense of betrayal on the part of Aileen.  It would take a lot of work for both of them to realize that they were indeed `soulmates' and had found each other again for one more chance to 'get it right' in this --  a most wonderful tale of medieval adventure of love, betrayals, and madness.<br />Reading this book initiated a search for more of this author's novels.  I was totally enthralled with the romance aspect of the story, the magnificent imagery and the cleverness of the plot.  The battle of the sexes was spicy enough and very enjoyable with very intelligent dialogs.  While this is part of a series, I in no way felt lost in trying to figure out what was going on - rather, I will find myself eagerly looking for the prequels to this as I found it to be an amazing saga.  This was a fabulous read, exciting and sensually delightful! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]amazing saga.  This was a fabulous read, exciting and sensually delightful! --- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-27
768527:US	45284807	R37R0Y36H8EK3G	0821771094	825965807	Until You're Mine (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Amusing and Very Quick Read	London, 1813 - Laura Lancaster, was a displaced American scrimping and saving to afford passage home now that the wars between the two countries seemed to be settled.  She found work as an actress, as well as camaraderie with friends all eking out a life on the 'boards'. In her twenties, beautiful, and saving her virginity for her storybook prince - or at least a good honorable man, she was unlike her best friend and fellow actress, Celia who supplemented her living with gentlemen protectors.<br />Julian Norcliff, Earl of Lockwood, was a handsome man whose good opinion of the fairer sex had been squashed when forced into an arranged marriage to a female with the morals of an alley cat. Burying himself in political causes, he only had need of woman for the most basic of uses and was so discreet at it that the rumors began that he was more attracted to his own gender.  In an attempt to squash these rumors his valet proposed an arrangement that would show him to a better advantage by squiring around a beautiful woman and identifying her as his mistress.<br />Laura thought she would be able to play the part -- she certainly was hungry enough to agree to it as long as it remained - in name only.  For Julian, it seemed the perfect solution even if not quite believing the claims of her supposed virginal innocence.  What Julian did not expect though was that Laura would have him so intrigued that he just might have to renegotiate the no sex clause in their agreement.<br />This was a sweet enough romance with just enough plotting and intrigue to make it interesting.  The lead characters were very likeable and finely drawn as well as the secondary characters who blended in beautifully and helped the intrigue and mystery work out to a fully satisfying conclusion.  This was a first time read of this author's work and the style and pace were exactly what I look for in a historical romance.  Very good, nice plot and quick page-turner in a book I can definitely recommend.  Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]itted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-27
773528:US	45284807	R3E0BJJBC01JRY	0425194779	215433535	On the Edge of the Woods	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Modern Day Gothic	It was the house of her dreams, or at least the possibilities that with her architectural training she could see.  Stacy Addison, had been looking for some time to find just the right home and knew that this big turn of the century manor house sitting in the Sierra mountains would be the one, the moment she saw it.  Of course, it would need an enormous amount of work, but Stacy knew, accepted it and walked in with her eyes wide open.  What she did not count on were threatening notes, phone hang-ups and the harassment that would ultimately cause her to doubt who she could trust of the new and intriguing neighbors she inherited, including the very handsome and virile<br />neighbor Brand Vandevere.  The stories she had heard about him told her to stay away, but her gut feelings of wanting him warred with any sensible emotions she should be feeling.  As more and more incidents seemed to occur with the finger seemingly pointing at Brand, Stacy would have to trust more than her gut feelings - she'd have to trust her heart and hope she survived to tell the tale.<br />This was told in the grand gothic traditions similar to Victoria Holt featuring a wonderful old manor house as its center. The two protagonists were well developed with Stacy as an intrepid heroine showing a lot of spunk and courage as the threats and intimidations would have sent most females running. Brand's characterization of distrust and longing were tedious at times and a bit harder to swallow, but I do admit to loving a man who can cook!  The numerous secondary characters added substance to the story, but I felt that she could have developed the character of Saul more as he had more of a menacing aspect in the story and seemed to have just been overlooked in the end.  The pace was acceptable but not a page-turner that would have kept me up all night.  This was a good solid gothic type read but predictable.  ---  Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-23
775828:US	45284807	R3JLLWE4N21CNW	0758204450	865822647	The Bookseller's Daughter	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Sensually Stimulating and Rich Historical	Setting - France 1783 (six years before the French Revolution)<br />We are originally introduced to Marie-Laure as a scullery maid ordered to serve tea to the aristocratic family she was working for.  She is nervous enough but more so when she recognizes the younger son, Viscount Joseph d'Auvers-Raimond as the wounded book smuggler of outlawed and banned books that she and her brother had cared for one night, only to have had him disappear the next day.  During that short time they cared for him, she became aware of him as a man and he, mostly in an unconscious state, inspired in her an awakening  response that was so passionate in nature that she knew that the betrothal to a friend of her brothers could never be.  Consequently, after the death of her father and no marriage in the offing, she was reduced to earning her way.  Unfortunately, for a beautiful young woman, this involved fighting off unwanted advances from both servants and aristocrats.<br />Joseph recognized Marie-Laure, and was determined to do something to save her from the advances he knew his father and brother would be making and planned  that he would save her by staging a tryst before they got to her.  As embarrassing as the public tryst was, Marie-Laure agreed to playing the part of his mistress as they innocently spent their evenings in discussions of literature.  Soon, though they each began thinking of more enticing ways to spend the time as they fell in love and after Marie-Laures innocent but provocative seduction of Joseph the nights were most definitely spent in more than discussions.  But as all romances go between aristocrats and servants, jealousies and hatreds would tear the two lovers apart as betrayals abound and a murder mystery needed to be solved.<br /><br />I think that for the readers who like a wealth of historical aspects thrown in to embellish their romances this book will certainly fill the bill and they will appreciate the many references made as well as the authors notes at the back of this story.  The author writes in a very erotic tone both in the present, and then when separated, as letters were sent back and forth.  As encompassing as the love story between the two protagonists is the author instills through the historical references, the heroines own independent spirit and mood of the common people over the excesses of the aristocracy in pre-revolutionary France.  I found this to be an exceptional read that lovers of historical romances should flock to the stores to pick up and I recommend it most highly as both sensually stimulating with lush prose and captivating characters.--- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]t the back of this story.  The author writes in a very erotic tone both in the present, and then when separated, as letters were sent back and forth.  As encompassing as the love story between the two protagonists is the author instills through the historical references, the heroines own independent spirit and mood of the common people over the excesses of the aristocracy in pre-revolutionary France.  I found this to be an exceptional read that lovers of historical romances should flock to the stores to pick up and I recommend it most highly as both sensually stimulating with lush prose and captivating characters.--- Submitted by Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-21
779100:US	45284807	R38C9OP242ZSTG	0553584901	401419305	Shady Lady	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Extremely Entertaining Romantic Intrigue	Setting - England, 1817 ---  Jo Chesney, editor of the Avon Journal has enough on her mind trying to put her latest issue `to bed' but when an infuriated Waldo Bowman, war hero and purported rake starts in attacking her and her paper for discussing him in the paper's gossip column  - she fights back.  Naturally, he was stunned to discover that the editor, J.S. Chesney is a woman. A widow no less who has kept the paper going as a tribute to her late husband,  and in spite of her shrewish tongue, he secretly admires the termagant and is determined to discover the identity of the gossip columist, Lady Tellall.<br />Lady Tellall, is actually Jo's best friend, Lady Chloe Webberly, who unbeknownst to Jo has run into trouble.  Two weeks have elapsed before a mysterious message from Chloe arrives telling Jo to be careful, that they could both be in mortal danger and to look for Chloe's diary for answers.  With no further word from Chloe, Jo receives a letter from another acquaintance who has noticed the disappearance and is worried. After a mysterious break-in occurs at the newspaper (which Jo attributes to Waldo trying to ferret out the identity of Lady Tellall) Jo and her aunt travel to London to discover what they can from the people who last saw Chloe.<br />Along the way, Jo and her aunt, get caught up in another adventure culminating in Jo's arrest for kidnapping, assault and resisting arrest. With nowhere else to turn she engages the assistance of Waldo whom she knows has connections to the Special Branch.  Now, Waldo has the task of not only keeping her out of trouble but of guarding her from her own follies.  When she turns around and uses her paper to set a trap for the killer Waldo realizes that she is unlike any woman he has ever known and he cannot lose her before he can convince her that they belong together.<br />This is a wonderful regency romantic intrigue in which the mysteries, twists and turns will keep you turning the pages well into the night.  Subtle hints throughout will give you your own ideas of what prompts the villain, but I am also sure that the ending will be as much of a surprise to you as it was to me.  Thornton has always done character development extremely well and this is no exception with interesting and varied secondary characters enhancing the story.  As expected, this book will grab the reader right from the start and keep you in suspense right  to the very end in this, Thornton's latest extremely entertaining romantic intrigue. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]tle hints throughout will give you your own ideas of what prompts the villain, but I am also sure that the ending will be as much of a surprise to you as it was to me.  Thornton has always done character development extremely well and this is no exception with interesting and varied secondary characters enhancing the story.  As expected, this book will grab the reader right from the start and keep you in suspense right  to the very end in this, Thornton's latest extremely entertaining romantic intrigue. --- Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-19
781134:US	45284807	R1WUOZYXHN30CK	0425193039	779232387	Hunting Midnight	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	Very Erotic Historic Setting Paranormal	Setting - England, Bridesmere 1370 ---  Enter the world of Emma Holly, an author that will spin you another tale of the Upyr - shape shifting immortals.  Upyrs are generally content to stay hidden in their own woods - running in packs and feeding off of the animal inhabitants of the forest.  Except, Ulric, leader of the pack, betrayed by his long time lover, has left the safety of the forest and now roams the streets of Bridesmere to see what humans have to offer.  Would it be fate then that on these streets he would meet Juliana Buxton, the once dutiful daughter of a successful merchant?  Fleeing from a betrothal with a much older and wealthier man, Juliana noticed the aura surrounding Ulric - which in it's own way was unusual for a human to see. Ulric who was in the process of `thralling' a crowd, as would a `pied piper', immediately sensed Juliana and the attraction would be mutual.  Learning of her plight he agrees to assist her in an escape, mainly as a step in seducing her, but as the two travel across the land to his domain, Juliana on an erotic journey of her own in which there was no return, would be the one to enthrall Ulric who fought hard against feelings for any woman -- his feelings still raw from so recent a betrayal of the woman he had loved for so long.<br />In a word - WOW!  This is Emma Holly who, in my mind, is rapidly becoming one of the most amazingly sensual erotic writers of the decade!  Yes, I read the first book in the series, CATCHING MIDNIGHT, and loved it as I became acquainted with the race of Upyrs.  In this sequel, which is easily a stand alone, you will be introduced again to these shape-shifting immortals and be in for the treat of your lives if you like your reading sprinkled liberally with BLAZINGLY HOT and sensually explicit encounters coupled with a beautiful and tender `love' story!  What more can I say - the story is solid, the characters are well defined, it introduces you to new characters (Bastien and Emile), brings back some of the older lovable ones, yet still lets you feel the emotions of tenderness that only a beautiful love story can do.  I thoroughly enjoyed this story and can only hope to see a continuation with Bastien's story in the very near future. --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]k some of the older lovable ones, yet still lets you feel the emotions of tenderness that only a beautiful love story can do.  I thoroughly enjoyed this story and can only hope to see a continuation with Bastien's story in the very near future. --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-17
784181:US	45284807	RP7X8M3XSZ16C	0821775375	789517487	Bluestocking Bride (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Still a Delightful Regency	Setting - England 1811 --- While Catherine Hartland has yet to meet a man who is going to appreciate her for herself, her educated mind and sharp intellect, she is well aware that walks this earth are the self-inflated ego ridden nobles who she knows very well would not be interested in her.  Richard, the Marquis of Rutherton, is no exception even if he is unbelievably handsome with a bold sensual gaze that Catherine is not immune to even though she is determined to not succumb to.<br />Richard, was astounded to discover that this unlikely chit, so unlike the Cyprians he's been so used to would beguile him so.  And that he, who was the prize of the matrimony mart, would have to work so  hard for her to accept his suit.  While winning what he considered was his prize, keeping her in love with him, as she discovered and misinterpreted his past foibles would be even harder as she tried to teach the arrogant man, a real lesson - in how to love!<br />While this is a reprint, from an earlier time when regency novels did not have the sexual details down to the last drop of sweat, I found it to still have enough sensuality built in hold my interest.  In fact, I was relatively amazed at the almost seduction, that was somewhat graphic when the two protagonists encountered each other upon their first meeting, owing to the fact that Catherine did not admit to being a lady of quality.  As a fan of Thornton's I see that even in her earlier works, such as this, she still gives the reader wonderful character development and page turning anticipation.  Bottom line, if you are looking for explicit sexual description you will not find it here, but pick this up if you are looking for a good solid storyline, and a very pleasant and entertaining read set in the lively regency era.  --- Marilyn...	2004-02-15
787305:US	45284807	R1C6TMMUVI6GF9	0451210646	542184409	Undone	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Outstanding Fictionalized True Story	Setting - Great Britain 1751 ---- Virginia Henley has taken a piece of history about a common, lowborn but beautiful young woman, done her research, and given her readers this romantic and fictionalized remarkable story of her life.  The young woman, Elizabeth Gunning (1733-1790), and her older sister Maria, whose beginnings from an impoverished family rose to impressive heights through the ambitious and clever manipulations of their mother.  With nothing but their incredible good looks these two sisters, manipulated by their ambitious mother, posed as minor nobility where they were soon courted by the cream of the Georgian nobility.  Elizabeth, became a Duchess, not once but twice and her story is told in Henley's most impressive and sensual style.<br />The story is told from Elizabeth's meager beginnings in Ireland, where she first met the handsome John Campbell, heir to the Duke of Argyll and her story is fictionalized and chronicled thru to her first marriage to Campbell's enemy the Duke of Hamilton.  The author will depict Campbell's love for Elizabeth as all consuming, yet, he alone knowing the truth of her origins, couldn't see his way clear to offer her marriage due to the difference in their status. When the Duke of Hamilton heard of Campbell's regard for the glorious Elizabeth, he thought to kill two birds with one stone by tweaking his archenemies nose and gaining for himself a `trophy wife' and duchess!<br />The fictionalized story of the Gunning sisters rise to fame was, for me, a most enjoyable read.  The historical details were numerous as one comes to expect in a novel from Henley, yet I was unaware of the existence of this person until I read the author's note at the end.  Be that as it may, where it is fictionalized I found it to be deeply sensual with some very torrid love scenes.  One can only imagine that for a woman in that early period of history to have won not one, but two Dukes of the realm in marriage, must have been a most remarkable woman.  So, for those of you looking for a most enjoyable and entertaining look back into history - enjoy, and for those looking for a very sensual and steamy read - look no further!  **** Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]man.  So, for those of you looking for a most enjoyable and entertaining look back into history - enjoy, and for those looking for a very sensual and steamy read - look no further!   **** Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-13
787828:US	45284807	R1891PHVSYBHYG	0060092661	982289135	One Kiss From You: Switching Places #2 (Switching Places Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Very Sensual Entry in Switching Places Series	Eleanor de Lacy was devoted to her cousin and best friend, the future duchess, Madeline de Lacy and only because of such devotion had she agreed to switch places with her.  Pretending to be the `duchess' that Remington Knight had won as a bride after Madeline's father had gambled her away in a card game, was only supposed to be a delaying tactic until Madeline herself could come and straighten everything out! Although, what no one had anticipated was that Eleanor would be so attracted to the very virile, very handsome, and extremely seductive Remington Knight -- that the best laid plans could change!  When Remington pushed up the wedding date, and Madeline still had not shown up, Eleanor went ahead and married him anyway!<br />Remington, had reasons for wanting to wed the future duchess, that had nothing to do with love but everything to do with revenge.  What he did not expect was to be charmed by \\"the duchess\\" a woman he thought would be a stereotype haughty and spoiled aristocrat.  Instead his plans to tame, break, and payback the de Lacy family as payment for destroying his family were about to backfire, as the very pleasant, modest and beautiful Eleanor would wreak her own brand of payback on him!  But oh, what a way to go!<br />I have to say that when I pick up a book by the estimable Ms. Dodd, (and I admit to being a big fan) I am so entertained that I cannot put it down.  What more can you expect from well defined characters, a mystery murder to solve and sensual love scenes.  She writes with such sensual pleasure that I swear I feel as much anticipatory tension as the virginal heroines in her books.  This latest entry and book two in her Switching Places series has got to be one of her hottest yet!  And may I say, that Remington Knight has also won a place in my top ten list of HOT and SEXY lead heroes.  Whew - Dodd has outdid herself with this book that should come with a warning not to start late at night as you will not be able to put it down!  --- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]rilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-12
791073:US	45284807	R3HA97Q46OSRE3	0449218007	12138481	The Dedicated Villian (The Golden Chronicles, Book 6)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrific Fast Paced Historical Romance Adventure	Setting - England 1746 ----- It has been a wonderful journey and finally, in this the sixth novel of the Golden Chronicle series by Patricia Veryan, we are seeing the sometimes odious, sometimes sweet, and at all times handsome, womanizing, rogue Roland Fairleigh Mathieson aka, Otton get his comeuppance!  This very dedicated villain, has never really loved before and at times you might have come to hate him. Other than his poor deceased mother and his faithful, and wonderful horse, Rumplestiltskin, or fondly referred to as Rump, he has never loved or been loved!  Although, as bad as he has been portrayed in the previous novels, there has always been some spark of good that he would let slip through and in this book you will see his `epiphany' of sorts, brought on by the love of the irresistible force of Fiona Bradford!<br />For those of you who have not read previous novels in this series, not to worry as this book can stand alone and though he's been portrayed as quite the rake, he has always been amusing and finally a hero!  Roland is again in search of the fortune gathered by the Jacobites but never delivered to Bonnie Prince Charlie in his disastrous attempt to overthrow the king of England.  For so many months, he had been thwarted in his attempts to discover the ciphers that would lead him to the treasure, the one time he actually does something really heroic in coming to the rescue of a drowning woman he happens upon a caravan troupe of actors whose main purpose was to transport the treasure back to it's rightful owners.  Roland, thinking how fortuitous and to go along for the ride, in the end stealing the treasure for himself, begins to see himself through Fiona's eyes and discovers that he does want to change, and the real treasure, to become the man worthy of her love.<br />This non-stop page-turning adventure has to be my very favorite of the six volume Golden Chronicle series. Even if I had not read the others, there has always been something special about this `dedicated villain' and his horse Rump! Veryan gives you the most marvelous hero, believing himself worthless, yet such a reluctant hero! Fiona, artless, and believing him to be what he truly was - a hero!  You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you will certainly find that you will not forget - this very special dedicated villain! ---  Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]about this `dedicated villain' and his horse Rump! Veryan gives you the most marvelous hero, believing himself worthless, yet such a reluctant hero! Fiona, artless, and believing him to be what he truly was - a hero!  You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you will certainly find that you will not forget - this very special dedicated villain! ---  Marilyn Rondeau, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-10
794922:US	45284807	R1SD0WI9F0QHMK	0425192792	736567087	Goddess of the Sea (Goddess Summoning, Book 1)	Books	5	108	114	N	N	Wonderfully Magical Tale!!	Christine Canady &quot;CC&quot; is an Air Force Sergeant, who is about to be sent on a 6-month tour of duty to the Middle East. It is the eve of her twenty-fifth birthday and even her only living relatives, mom and dad, have forgotten the day. So feeling a bit sorry for herself she celebrates alone consuming a couple bottles of champagne which culminated in a bit of a silly, or so she thought, dance on her balcony to the earth goddess and wishing for a bit of `magic' in her life!<br />Soon, she found herself on a C-130 trying to forget how much she hated flying, especially over water...when naturally, the military plane goes down.  Harrowing as the crash is, it is even worse as she feels herself being dragged down and knowing she is about to die.  But opening her eyes, she discovers herself looking into the face of a most beautiful mermaid and finds she is not only still alive but breathing under water as well.  After a brief explanation and agreeing to the mermaid's wishes to become human, she finds her soul switched over into the voluptuous mermaid Undine and discovering that the year and location is 1014 in the waters surrounding ancient Wales.  Furthermore, all is not magical, when she finds herself being  pursued and almost raped by the royal merman, Sarpedon.<br />Gaea, Goddess of the Earth, (Undine's birth mother) who was instrumental in granting CC this `magic' in her life, comes to her aid, and grants CC legs to return to land with the stipulation that she must return every third night to the sea, else she'd die - UNLESS - she could find a man to truly love her for herself.  Whipping up a storm and a story to explain her presence on land, CC is rescued in the water (she's not a good swimmer as a human) by, Dylan, another handsome merman, and brought close to shore. Soon a handsome Knight in shining honor (no kidding) rides up and drags her the rest of the way to land.  Before too long, CC is embroiled in medieval politics and danger as the evil Sarpedon begins to use his power to create havoc for CC on land, and she pines for the sensitive merman Dylan who would love her for `eternity'.<br />Every so often I like to try out new authors and switch over to different genres to refresh myself.  Reading the summary of this book I expected an amusing funny tale.  I was wrong.  What I discovered was a really a sensitive and magically entertaining love story.  I truly enjoyed this book and perhaps it is because - maybe, deep down, I do believe in magic that I will recommend this to all of you who want to capture the magic of a truly magical love story.  This was a wonderfully entertaining and pleasant read.  ---- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]begins to use his power to create havoc for CC on land, and she pines for the sensitive merman Dylan who would love her for `eternity'. <br />Every so often I like to try out new authors and switch over to different genres to refresh myself.  Reading the summary of this book I expected an amusing funny tale.  I was wrong.   What I discovered was a really a sensitive and magically entertaining love story.  I truly enjoyed this book and perhaps it is because - maybe, deep down, I do believe in magic that I will recommend this to all of you who want to capture the magic of a truly magical love story.   This was a wonderfully entertaining and pleasant read.   ---- Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-02-07
806479:US	45284807	R3LMOULSN45U6P	0373292694	163344182	A Moment's Madness	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Amazingly Good Debut Novel	Essex, England 917 A.D. - a perilous time when battles were frequent, bloody and man did unspeakable abominations against their fellow men. Hell was the world that burned around her as Sigrid a young Dane woman ran from Saxon pursuers. Abruptly coming to a halt when she ran into a wall of chain mail, madness seemed to overcome her or was it fate that made her cling to his arm and announce to her pursuers that she was his - the chain mailed warrior with steely cold blue eyes. Her husband was dead, that abuse was at an end - what more could be done to her other than pray that this Saxon would grant her a quick death.<br />But her anger and hatred against these Saxon conquerors would soon be tempered by the kindness of her captor, who promised her safety if she stayed with him. Liefwin didn't realize at first that what he needed was Sigrid - that she would be the one that would help him slay his demons and melt his heart.<br />For a debut novel this was amazingly good. To have tackled such an obscure period of very early Saxon history and to have done it so well showed a goodly amount of courage and should be applauded. What I felt to be a small weakness in the beginning of the story for a smoother flow of dialog and feelings was more than rectified towards the last half as the author tied up the romance into a very emotional and moving finale managing to weave a beautiful romance, sensuality and history together. I feel sure that over time this will be an author to watch for to bring lovers of medieval romances quite a thrill.  *** Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-01-29
807487:US	45284807	R1ZNGUPZ35VC8Y	0451210913	241176148	Secrets	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well Done Sequel	Setting - Algiers and Regency England ----  In this second book of Heather Cullman's trilogy (definitely can stand alone), you are reintroduced to Christian English, the extremely handsome man without a past who had been rescued by the former book's hero, Gideon Harwood. Right from the start the book grabs you with its graphic description of the Algerian slave market, the humiliation and the atrocities heaped upon those slaves considered to be prime for the more depraved buyers.  After Christian was  rescued by Gideon, they stayed on the continent long enough to amass a fortune and return to England as very wealthy men.  With no memories of who he was, Christian was welcomed into Gideons home, and falls in loves with Gideon's beautiful sister Bethany, but is frustrated in his inability to declare himself with no memory and the possibility that he might already be wed.  At Gideon's Christmas celebration, invited members from the ton recognize Christian as being the eldest son and heir to the Duke of Amberley.  As thrilled as Bethany is for Christian's good fortune, and loving him as much as she did, she was more than aware that, with this disclosure, her status was far below what would be acceptable as the proper wife to the heir of a dukedom!<br />Bethany, on the other hand, has her own secrets. Bethany had, before her brother returned home triumphant, in order to save her younger sister been compelled to become the mistress to a member of the ton.  Becoming pregnant, she was abandoned and her child stillborn.  In order to cover up the truth and provide a way for her to make a suitable marriage, her family had Bethany posing as the widow of wealthy sea captain.  For Christian, the circumstances of Bethany's past did not make any difference to him as he was totally in love with her goodness, kindness and gentle ways and now the way was clear for him to declare himself properly. In the meantime, strange accidents began to occur to Christian as he was fast discovering that the person he had been in the past was not the person who had emerged after his experiences as a slave.<br />The plotline here was really quite good, and the character development of Christian and Bethany was extremely well done. I especially liked the way Christian came to realize that he was now a better person after having the life altering experiences as a slave rather than the privileged life as heir to a Duke. The secondary characters were warm and engaging, especially Christians brother and sisters.  While I felt that the villain could have been developed more, it was easy to figure out who it was.  The romance angle and the warm familial affection was very well done and certainly engages your emotions so that, as a whole, I feel confident in recommending this both as a very nice sequel or stand alone regency romance for lovers of the genre.  *** Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]ng that the person he had been in the past was not the person who had emerged after his experiences as a slave.   <br />The plotline here was really quite good, and the character development of Christian and Bethany was extremely well done. I especially liked the way Christian came to realize that he was now a better person after having the life altering experiences as a slave rather than the privileged life as heir to a Duke. The secondary characters were warm and engaging, especially Christians brother and sisters.  While I felt that the villain could have been developed more, it was easy to figure out who it was.  The romance angle and the warm familial affection was very well done and certainly engages your emotions so that, as a whole, I feel confident in recommending this both as a very nice sequel or stand alone regency romance for lovers of the genre.  *** Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-01-28
808491:US	45284807	R38K82SET14X9R	0743465067	798136749	Highlander Unbound	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Unique Approach for a Scot  to Survive Living in  London	Setting -  Scotland and London 1816 --- Highlander Unbound is the beginning of a new series by Julia London.... Based upon the prologue the series centers around a small artifact in the form of a `beastie' which over the centuries has passed back and forth between the English and Scottish Lockhart families. The Scottish Lockharts, never being able to hang on to it.  With the beastie comes a legend that has gotten convoluted in the re-telling over the centuries. In this first book, captain Liam Lockhart travels to London to `retrieve' this valuable family heirloom.  A veteran hero of the battle of Waterloo, he is the eldest of the three Lockhart siblings and rationalizes that this is not stealing, rather than reclaiming what rightly belongs to the Scottish side of the Lockhart family.<br />Big, burly and with a scar down his face he is used to the disdain and fear of the woman who are introduced to him. Meeting a golden angel on the windy and crowded streets of London, has caught him off guard.  He later discovers that she resides in the house where he has let rooms. He has been mesmerized and is completely bewildered because he incorrectly assumes that she is married to his landlord, finding this to be incorrect he then assumes she is a widow.  How the lovely Ellen Farnsworth, mother of a 10-year-old precocious daughter could remain unattached was a puzzle he needed to solve. On a mission to save his family's ancestral home, he really shouldn't allow her to become such a distraction, but never before had he been in love. Ellen, on the other hand, swore never to fall in love again and could only think of how to extract herself and her daughter from an indefensible situation.  She felt hopeless in having to betray the man who had made her feel alive even though her betrayal would tear her apart.<br />The beginning of this novel showed great promise and though the characters were very well defined, the story seemed to slow down in the middle even with Liam displaying some very original, yet shocking ways to survive bad English dinner fare and lack of good laundry facilities.  The reader will certainly enjoy Liam's matter of fact burliness amongst the dandies of the ton.  Though I did have problems with Ellen and her decision of betrayal towards Liam, which certainly dampened what I thought was developing into a beautiful romance.  It was a good read with some very stimulating and interesting romantic encounters.  While not one of my highest rated of reads, I will be looking forward to reading more of the Lockhart families quest to solve the riddle concerning the `beastie'!  ***  Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]some very original, yet shocking ways to survive bad English dinner fare and lack of good laundry facilities.  The reader will certainly enjoy Liam's matter of fact burliness amongst the dandies of the ton.   Though I did have problems with Ellen and her decision of betrayal towards Liam, which certainly dampened what I thought was developing into a beautiful romance.  It was a good read with some very stimulating and interesting romantic encounters.  While not one of my highest rated of reads, I will be looking forward to reading more of the Lockhart families quest to solve the riddle concerning the `beastie'!   ***  Marilyn, Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-01-28
811121:US	45284807	R3XU3GM4YAMHM	0974575003	763710473	The Designer Revolution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Should be Required Reading for all Educators!!!! Marvelous	It was with great pleasure that I was given the chance to read and review on what I consider to be an impressive argument for using the tools this generation has at it's disposal to help our younger generation get more out of the time spent in a class room.  It is also an attempt to enlighten the bureaucracy of the educational world that there just might be a better way using a better tool to educate our children.<br />Where am I coming from? Admittedly, I am not an educator, but a great lover of books who now that my school days are long past is not forced to read a book.  I read for the pure joy of the written word, for an author to come and dazzle me with written words that engages me emotionally is rare.  To be able to give that kind of joy to a young person, simply by engaging their visual awareness is to my mind a great gift!  Not only do I find that Ms. Kirschenbaum makes a very eloquent and visually impressive argument in a text book that is so visually satisfying and well thought out, but were I part of the upper echelon of the educational bureaucracy, I would make this book required reading for all educators.  She proves through actual interaction with her students the enthusiasm and attention given to assignments and papers presented in color and illustration versus the standard black and white text. More importantly, she gives the reader a feast for their eyes with lavish illustrations to bring home her point.  Kirschenbaum presents a marvelous case that asks us what with computers and their vast abilities to reproduce graphics, fonts, etc. in living color and this younger generation totally acclimated to videos, DVDs and graphic imagery, why then are we still trying to teach them to read in black and white?<br />This impressive and lavishly illustrated book should be shared with any teacher you know, and with any parent you know whose children are in school.  This effort by a most dedicated teacher should be applauded, praised and looked at with an eye for gifting young minds with the joy of reading, learning and understanding.<br />.....Marilyn Rondeau an Official Reviewer for [...]ye for gifting young minds with the joy of reading, learning and understanding.<br />.....Marilyn Rondeau an Official Reviewer for [...]	2004-01-26
816300:US	45284807	RTCZ3Z4D1W8BD	0449216659	136557493	LOVE ALTERS NOT (Golden Chronicles)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Entertaining and Worth the effort to find	Setting  Late Summer 1746 ---  The fourth volume of the Golden Chronicles series continues the story of the mission entrusted to Bonnie Prince Charlie's underground followers. In this book, Horatio Glendenning, mentioned in earlier novels is now the courier, running for his life.  When his manservant reaches the door of Miss Dimity (Mitten) Cranford, begging assistance, Dimity, rather than engaging her wounded and recovering brother sets out to help their childhood friend.  Through a series of adventures, she now ends up with the deadly cypher and assuming the identity of woman who was on her way to pass off her young six-year-old nephew as the rightful heir to a property now claimed by the infamous and cowardly captain Anthony Farrar.  The same captain of her brothers regiment who had, by his actions, caused the loss of her dear brothers foot  a man she had come to despise.<br />Entering the portals of the Palfreys, Farrars ancestral home, wearing some of the most unladylike guises (the clothing of the young lads dubious aunt), Dimity is treated as a guest by the lady of the manor.  In trying to locate the person to pass this cypher on to, she has occasion to observe the man who was thought to be a great coward and his actions just did not add up to the eyewitness facts, nor did he offer any denials.  For Anthony, his guest appearance and mannerisms also, did not add up to the picture of the doxy she appeared to be.<br />Through all of the subterfuges and adventures, Ms. Veryan again engages the reader in another roller coaster ride of excitement, tense adventure, and amusement with extremely colorful secondary characters and animals.  Written before the trend for more sexually explicit romances this book does not pulsate with sex but with heart stopping adventure, and the old fashioned getting to know you type of romance.  It is highly entertaining both as a stand alone or read as I have in the order of this well deserved highly acclaimed series.  This is definitely entertaining and well worth the effort to locate.series.  This is definitely entertaining and well worth the effort to locate.	2004-01-22
821706:US	45284807	R3NPD0O12BDPBY	0449216667	163732388	The Tyrant (Golden Chronicles)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Outstanding Third Sequel to Golden Chronicle Series	Setting - England July 1746 --- The beautiful Miss Phoebe Ramsay, the `fair', was somewhat in love with the very handsome and the dashing Captain Brooks Lambert, but alas, she knows that her family needs for her to marry well in order to help their dwindling finances that negate sending her beloved brother Sinclair `Sin' to Oxford university. As handsome as Brooks was, he was also not very rich so trying to get her father to accept him as a suitor was impossible. At the annual Ramsay Summer Ball, she goes looking for Sin and finds him in desperate straits trying to help his friend Lascelles, a wounded and hunted Jacobite rebel fugitive. She is sent to find the one man who might be able to help him, his friend Merry. Given a description of who to look for she was shocked to find that Merry turned out to be Lord Meridith Carruthers aka `The Tyrant' gruff and grim as his brother nicknamed him. Phoebe takes him to her brother and friend and he is coerced into giving his assistance. Unfortunately, while getting Phoebe back to the party, Carruthers in another attempt to draw attention away from the fugitive managed to get themselves compromised and Meredith is taken to task by her father to offer for Phoebe. When Phoebe learns of their betrothal, she is horrified at the thought of spending life with the man known as \\"The Tyrant.\\"<br />In a dangerous trek using his newly betrothed and family to his estate, they smuggle their fugitive friend along. It is during the trip and during the perilous days following that Phoebe comes to know the man behind the mask he portrays as `The Tyrant\\". Both the protagonists were superbly drawn, with Phoebe yearning for the handsome Captain she couldn't have and yet discovering that beyond Carruthers rude and boorish traits as a form of self preservation from a mother that he loved to distraction was a man who held a genuine warmth and caring for those under his protection.<br />This is another superbly drawn book in the third volume of the Golden Chronicles series. Veryan's insights and perfectly drawn and fully fleshed characters is amazing. I love the way she connects all of these characters together from one novel to another. We also see another glimpse into the multi faceted and complex characterization of Roland Otton of whom I look forward to learning the true identity and mystery behind this man as he is turning out to not be the complete scoundrel that he appeared to be in the first two books of the Golden Chronicles. Definitely put this book on your list to savor. A true page turner of excitement, adventure and love!lden Chronicles series. Veryan's insights and perfectly drawn and fully fleshed characters is amazing. I love the way she connects all of these characters together from one novel to another. We also see another glimpse into the multi faceted and complex characterization of Roland Otton of whom I look forward to learning the true identity and mystery behind this man as he is turning out to not be the complete scoundrel that he appeared to be in the first two books of the Golden Chronicles. Definitely put this book on your list to savor. A true page turner of excitement, adventure and love!	2004-01-18
830154:US	45284807	RNIB5DLYKDK49	031244513X	247416303	Journey to Enchantment (Golden Chronicles)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exciting Tale of Narrow Escapes and Dramatic Clashes	Setting - Scotland 1746 --- JOURNEY TO ENCHANTMENT -  In this second installment the very independent, beautiful Prudence MacTavish is aghast that her father has installed in their home on the shores of Loch Ness a wounded Sassenach soldier.  She is proudly Scots, fiercely outspoken, and does her best to convince her father that Captain Gregory Delacort, is a spy sent to their home to glean information on the whereabouts of her hero, Ligun Doone, scourge of the Redcoats, and hero to the Scots.  She is infuriated as he begins to charm the household staff and herself  even as her suspicions that Gregory Delacort is not as sick as he claims to be, turn out to be nothing compared to WHO he turns out to be.<br />Before too long, Prudence  and Gregory, are both committed to daring escapades in smuggling both rebel Scots and a most dangerous cypher out of Scotland to safety.  In an adventure of a lifetime, she loses her heart only to brace herself for the rejection Gregory is impelled to give her in an attempt to save her from association with him should he be captured in the courageously treasonous acts he is compelled to commit.<br />This second book in the Golden Chronicle series is an aptly named book as you find yourself enchanted with the players, the vivid descriptions of the clothing, homes, and moods of the period.  Additionally, Ms Veryan's prose and the subtle bits of humor that she injects with the superbly created and robust secondary cast of characters in each of her very interesting stories will be sure to delight the reader. Once again you will find yourself immersed in a wildly exciting tale of dramatic clashes and narrow escapes as the protagonists race across war torn Scotland. While this is part of a series, I can honestly say that each book can definitely stand-alone and it is but a personal preference of mine to read entire series in chronological order.	2004-01-12
834597:US	45284807	R16NK6H11XQRTB	0312635532	741334879	Practice to Deceive ([The Golden chronicles)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Beginning to Golden Chronicle Series	Setting - England 1746 -  The deciding battle of Culloden has crushed Bonnie Prince Charlie's hopes and now his loyal followers and fellow Jacobite rebels are being hunted down and slaughtered.  The treasure of funds that had been collected but never delivered to Prince Charles has been hidden and there are six pieces of a puzzling code that will tell where the treasure is hidden and whom the donors were.  At the center of this violent and terrible storm, where greed and power rise above mans humanity towards one another is the very lovely Penelope Montgomery.  She lives in the home that would have been her brothers had not he been reported killed as one more casualty of war.  She is now a virtual prisoner of her scheming uncle and beautiful but cruel wife and is shocked to discover that her uncle has plotted with one of his cohorts to gift her in marriage to Captain Roland Otton, whose handsome and pleasant countenance could not negate the fact that he was as ruthless as he was handsome.<br />Quentin Chandler had stolen Penelope's heart years before and she still dreamed he would one day ride up and be her knight in shining armor.  Hearing of the betrothal, and rushing into her uncle's study to argue that he could not betroth her to such a villain as Otton, she stumbled upon her uncle and his henchman torturing a man.  Though the man was bloodied, bruised, and filthy once he turned to face her, she was shocked to discover that it was Quentin.  She knew that she had to save him in order to save herself and with a little bit of help from an unexpected source, would affect an escape. While she was risking her life hiding and nursing him back to health she would be overjoyed to hear him tell her that he loved her --- just like the sister he never had!!!!  Well that had to change!<br />This was an exciting and heart stopping adventure and romance all rolled into one with some of the most original funny dialogs and situations that this talented author can commit to paper.  There are just so many wonderful characters that simply spring to life in this marvelous tale along with a `wacky canary' that make this story so good.  Penelope is so brave and Quentin is so vastly imaginative when it comes to getting out of tight spots.  One of the more amusing dialogs takes place as Quentin, disguised as an old man, explains the `secret' of his young looking hands to a suspicious sergeant - very creative and terribly funny but you have to read it to appreciate it!  This is definitely a book for the lover of historical romances.  Writing without steamy and explicit love scenes your imagination will soar in this fast paced tale with the writing of this estimable author.  I am so looking forward to reading the next books in this early Georgian series of THE GOLDEN CHRONICLES.per.  There are just so many wonderful characters that simply spring to life in this marvelous tale along with a `wacky canary' that make this story so good.  Penelope is so brave and Quentin is so vastly imaginative when it comes to getting out of tight spots.  One of the more amusing dialogs takes place as Quentin, disguised as an old man, explains the `secret' of his young looking hands to a suspicious sergeant - very creative and terribly funny but you have to read it to appreciate it!    This is definitely a book for the lover of historical romances.  Writing without steamy and explicit love scenes your imagination will soar in this fast paced tale with the writing of this estimable author.  I am so looking forward to reading the next books in this early Georgian series of THE GOLDEN CHRONICLES.	2004-01-09
837617:US	45284807	R3M0OMHHL5C9Y	0425193276	930971091	Remember The Magic (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Pure Magical Enchantment	There are times when you can pick up a book and find yourself totally enchanted by the first couple of pages you read, but then it loses something.  Let me say this then,  that will not happen here as you continue find to your great delight that the enchantment doesn't end and this one will keep you glued throughout the book. With this wonderful story you will find yourself caught up and thoroughly enchanted not only by the magical prose of this author but the very essence of a love that defies time.<br />Sydney Wyrrd is a seven hundred old witch (who looks to be about 30 something).  She fled the Scottish Highlands five hundred years ago, leaving behind her beloved Duncan whom she believed would be in danger if she stayed.  Now two of her very good friends, powerful witches themselves, have offered her a chance to travel back through time to see if Duncan's love for her was everlasting.  Though since leaving, she has lived five hundred years, she is returned to the Highlands to a time, thirteen years after she'd left.<br />Duncan, has come to the woods, every day for thirteen years, still dreaming of and remembering Sydney.  He sees her, as he's seen her every day for the past thirteen years, yet does not believe she is real --- that she is only a vision, a remembrance of a love he cannot forget.  As they both struggle to overcome the anger and distrust of what he felt was her betrayal of his love for her, the same warlock who engineered the deceptions that hastened her earlier departure would feel compelled to try to destroy them again.<br />All I can add to this is that I have never enjoyed a fantasy tale so much as I have this one.  The sensual love scenes were amazing, the love story itself so very moving, and the secondary characters fascinating.  Beatrice, Sydney's sidekick fairy, whose wings were off kilter and head wreath that would not stay in place was a total delight who always brought a smile to my face and the rest of the characters, I am sure had their own stories and I am on a quest to locate them.  This is a book to cherish - pure magical enchantment and one that should not be missed.heir own stories and I am on a quest to locate them.    This is a book to cherish - pure magical enchantment and one that should not be missed.	2004-01-07
842421:US	45284807	R3A15J3X5ZH222	0449501809	714032843	Mistress of Willowvale: A Georgian Love Story (Coventry Romance #112)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Exciting Georgian England Historical Romance	Setting - England 1746 after the Jacobite Rebellion and decisive Battle of Culloden ---When Christopher `Kit', Lord Aynsworth, returns to London after years in service of the king fighting against the Jacobites.  He returns still wounded with a painful bullet in his shoulder that he has endured several operations to remove.  Painful as that is, he finds he is also being accused of being responsible for his beloved elder twins death albeit  to inherit the Earldom.  Hurtful as they were, the rumors alone were nothing compared to the comments and ridicule he hears from the young dandies at White's defaming Leonie Haliwell, his beloved fianc&eacute;e.  Upholding her honor he publicly commits himself to honoring the offer of marriage he made to her before he'd left for the wars.  Not until after his pronouncement, is he then is told of her ultimate disgrace in bearing a bastard child some time after he'd been gone.  Fighting his pride, he knows he cannot now withdraw from his publicly avowed commitment his only hope is that Leonie will release him, but alas, she does not!<br /><br />Assuming a marriage of convenience, the couple settle at Willowvale, a place of happier times where in growing up they had fallen in love. At Willowvale, Leonie, in spite of the coldness in private that Kit displays soon endears herself to all who she comes in contact with, including Kit.  In spite of himself, his love begins to reawaken. Despite the fact that Leonie professing her love for Kit will not tell him of Alexander, her charming five-year-old's parentage, Alexander himself quickly wins Aynsworth's heart.<br />The story has at it's core the romance and rekindling love story of Kit and Leonie, set against the backdrop of a totally cruel and brutal time in English history as those who were part of the Jacobite rebellion and anyone helping them were ruthlessly hunted down and brutally executed.  In spite of that background the author introduces some fabulous secondary characters as both friends and enemies and of course, inserts some of her trademark light comedic antics into the fold. The darling five-year-old Alexander is quite delightful, but the bearded, one-eyed Troy, whose early encounter with Kit ended in a hilarious duel was priceless.  And one must not fail to mention the very wise and  mysterious Mr. Muffin, and of course the many animals who also were ingeniously worked into the plot.  For those who are looking for the explicit sexual encounters, this might not appeal to you, but what the story lacks in sexual encounters, is more than made up in the excitement of the suspenseful climax and the tenderness of the reawakened love story.  This is truly another classic by the most distinguished author, Patricia Veryan, to relish.friends and enemies and of course, inserts some of her trademark light comedic antics into the fold. The darling five-year-old Alexander is quite delightful, but the bearded, one-eyed Troy, whose early encounter with Kit ended in a hilarious duel was priceless.  And one must not fail to mention the very wise and  mysterious Mr. Muffin, and of course the many animals who also were ingeniously worked into the plot.  For those who are looking for the explicit sexual encounters, this might not appeal to you, but what the story lacks in sexual encounters, is more than made up in the excitement of the suspenseful climax and the tenderness of the reawakened love story.  This is truly another classic by the most distinguished author, Patricia Veryan, to relish.	2004-01-04
844029:US	45284807	RMBQO33OIIMF	0446611301	812382767	Tempted	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Superb! Awesome! Loved It!	Setting - Early 1800's(?) London  --- Alexander Drummond, the Marquis of Warrick, is no saint, yet being descended from a long line of rakes, he has vowed to try to change that perception and does his best to not dally with the fairer sex, nor accost maids in his employ.  Now he needs a woman! He needs an extraordinary woman to act as nursemaid to his hellion of a daughter.  Enter Mary Callahan - and believe you me - let the howling begin!  Ms. Britton has crafted one of the most memorable, outlandish, impertinent and lovable heroines I have ever seen!<br />Nothing in Alexander, heir to a dukedom's noble upbringing could have prepared him for the irreverent wise-cracking, but luscious looking applicant for the job.  Armed with a fake letter of recommendation and sent by her father to infiltrate the Marquis' home Charlotte was doing all in her power to blow the interview, simply by being herself.  It took me a while to read through this interview as I was rolling on the floor from laughing so much!  Charlotte, had no intention of taking the job until she found out what it paid.  At the unheard of amount of a pound a week, she just couldn't turn that down, figuring she could stay on for at least a couple of weeks.  What she didn't figure on was falling for her employer!<br />Ms Britton has written an absolutely outrageously funny book that simply takes my breath away.  Fans of Pamela Britton - you simply MUST get this book! It surely is one of THE BEST books I have read this year.  Written with tongue-in-cheek, I swear I think I must have laughed out loud on practically every page...this book was an absolute hoot!  But lest you think it was pure comedy, you would be wrong, for it surely was a LOVE story and believe me this is one that you simply MUST READ.  You'll laugh, you'll cry at the impossibility of the match vs. true love, and it will definitely make you cry and  sigh with pleasure at the end!  BRAVO Ms. Britton this was a superb book that is definitely going to be on my keeper shelf!!!!ing to be on my keeper shelf!!!!	2004-01-02
844501:US	45284807	R3VPMCF710TOUG	0373292880	153884741	The Knave And The Maiden	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Very Pleasing and Compelling Tale	Setting - England, 1387 --- He calls himself, Sir Garren of nowhere, but because he saved the life of his best friend, William, Earl of Readington, the young novice, Domenica, from the abbey calls him `The Savior'.  Garren could have carried bounty from the fields of France, but would not leave the man whom he loved like his brother and gave him the only home he'd known since he had left the monastery at the age seventeen.  Now, William lay dying and his one last request was for Garren to make a pilgrimage to the Shrine of the Blessed Larina to deliver to the priest who resided there a mysterious letter whose seal must remain intact.<br />Garren had long ago lost his faith in God, and especially the church.  The boundless faith in God and innocence that lit the face of Domenica was an unwelcome burden he wished not to carry, especially since he'd struck a side bargain in order to gain some coin that would take that innocence away.  That very same innocence and faith would surely be his undoing as his cynical heart began to soften by the presence of the faithful and the pure and simple faith of the blue-eyed maiden.  Not knowing what was contained in the letter he carried, Garren would lead the pilgrims along the path to the shrine in a race he'd not known would place both his and Domenica's very lives in danger.<br />This debut novel by a new voice in medieval romance was for me.... pure poetry!  I loved the blind faith and innocence she portrayed in Domenica that played out beautifully against the disenchantment of God and Church that tortured Garren.  The author supplies a vivid cast of supporting characters that will make you smile in delight and cringe at their very wickedness.  The apprehension of the quest is felt quite nicely and the sweetness of the ending will have you running for your tissues.  Oh yes, this is a new star on the horizon and I certainly hope to see much more from her!	2004-01-02
844964:US	45284807	R1I1CXWGX7W6QK	0816138273	794855478	The Wagered Widow (G K Hall Large Print Book Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful tale of Georgian England	Rebecca Parrish is a beautiful young woman who, although fond of the foolish husband who'd gotten himself killed in a duel, was finally ready to re-enter life after a year of mourning.  Nearly destitute, the bills were piling up due to her late husband's mismanagement and gambling.  She now is determined to find a wealthy father for her six-year-old son Anthony.<br />On her first foray out of widow's weeds she attracts two suitors: the dashing but impoverished Trevelyan de Villars, whose intentions are far from honorable, and the handsome, very rich, and impeccable gentleman Sir Peter Ward. Trevelyan, very cynically made a wager with Sir Peter involving the lovely widow and when Rebecca's beloved brother found out, he challenged Trevelyan to a duel.  Rebecca believing all of the gossip of the sins attributed to Trevelyan, thought him a blackguard and made to feel uncomfortable over his ribald remarks and double entendres.  These tended to only infuriate her more, but for the sake of her beloved brother she would do whatever she could to save him even if it meant compromising herself to the infuriating rake!<br />Meanwhile, danger lurked in a more sinister manner as treasonous Jacobites are pursued, captured and executed.  Rebecca soon realizes that she has far more to worry about than snaring a future husband. Bravely, she must use all her wits and risks her very life to save a desperate, fugitive Jacobite. She soon realizes that people are seldom what they seem as she willingly is ready to toss aside security for love.<br />This was a most splendid tale of love and danger by one of the most accomplished romantic novelists writing today.  I thoroughly enjoyed being propelled back into the Georgian period by the well researched and beautifully described costumes, palatial homes and events from that period.  While such a plethora of secondary characters emerged, the reader is made to feel at ease with each and every one through a deft hand with the dialogs and cant of those times.  This was truly an adventure in `time travel, fraught with comical situations, adventure, intrigue and a beautiful and tender romance.  For those lovers of true historical romance genres, this is not to be missed and although out of print, it would prove to be worth the effort to locate a copy to relish a true master at her art!ant of those times.  This was truly an adventure in `time travel, fraught with comical situations, adventure, intrigue and a beautiful and tender romance.  For those lovers of true historical romance genres, this is not to be missed and although out of print, it would prove to be worth the effort to locate a copy to relish a true master at her art!	2004-01-02
846224:US	45284807	R3NZHH8QQ8KATI	1590803132	994284851	Highland Honor	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful Debut Novel	Setting - Scottish Highlands 1150 --- In establishing the story, ten years earlier young Hannah Campbell had run away from home and met young Gavin MacGregor bathing in the loch.  Discovering he was from a rival clan she did not want to give her name knowing that the MacGregors and Campbells had always hated one another.  Gavin pledged his word to the pretty young imp that he would see her safely home.  Hannah having grown impatient waiting for him to fetch his horse went in search of him and witnessed the brutal ambush of Gavin's clan and the murder of his father by a renegade member of her clan.  She, along with her brother Owen who arrived shortly after the slaughter, were able to rescue and save Gavin from his injuries - the sole survivor of the ambush.<br />Years later, and having been told that the young girl he'd met had died that day, Gavin in an attempt to lay to rest the rivalry between the clans is honor bound to keep the pledge of he'd made of granting a boon to Owen.  The boon turned out to be that Gavin would agree to marry Owen's maiden sister.  Furthermore, Owen made him promise the handfast would last for a year and a day, or until they could track down and bring to justice the renegade Dougal Campbell who had slain Gavin's father years before. The other caveat requested was that Gavin give his word of honor that he would not consummate the marriage.  Gavin did not want to marry, but was honor bound to keep his pledge although angry, at the added condition.  But then the thought of getting out of a marriage he didn't want in the first place didn't sound too bad, that is until he saw what a beautiful woman Owen's old maiden sister turned out to be!  Gavin did not recognize Hannah as she'd never revealed her name and Owen had told him that the young girl he'd met that day had been killed.  Hannah had never forgotten the young man she'd fallen in love with all those years ago and was somewhat hurt that he did not recognize her, but even more so when he started acting as though he hated her in an attempt to keep himself from ravishing the beauty that was his wife in name only.  He couldn't tell her of Owen's added condition and unfortunately, he could only war with both himself and Hannah as he tried to control the raging passion he felt for the bride he could not touch.<br />This debut historical novel by Lori Pepio was a truly enjoyable read.  The dialog was as sweet and spunky as the heroine herself and Gavin was depicted as both brave, strong and fun.  The secondary characters were interesting and well defined adding more enjoyment to the main plot.  Hannah's young niece Alyce was a delight who I would love to see have her own story some day. Historically, as all good Scottish medieval novels go, it had its scenes of sweet tenderness along with the reality of the brutality that went along with that period.  It is hoped that with its sensual love scenes, great dialog and charming protagonists, this book will mark the start of a debut author's rising star.he started acting as though he hated her in an attempt to keep himself from ravishing the beauty that was his wife in name only.  He couldn't tell her of Owen's added condition and unfortunately, he could only war with both himself and Hannah as he tried to control the raging passion he felt for the bride he could not touch.<br />This debut historical novel by Lori Pepio was a truly enjoyable read.  The dialog was as sweet and spunky as the heroine herself and Gavin was depicted as both brave, strong and fun.  The secondary characters were interesting and well defined adding more enjoyment to the main plot.  Hannah's young niece Alyce was a delight who I would love to see have her own story some day. Historically, as all good Scottish medieval novels go, it had its scenes of sweet tenderness along with the reality of the brutality that went along with that period.  It is hoped that with its sensual love scenes, great dialog and charming protagonists, this book will mark the start of a debut author's rising star.	2004-01-01
847825:US	45284807	R3IV6NWHSA3ICX	0553584413	876323830	My Favorite Thief	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Absolutely Charming and Engaging	Setting - London 1875 --- Stumbling upon a masked man in Lady Chadwick's bedroom, Miss Charlotte Kent should have been terrified, but discovering that he seemed to be slightly inept for a burglar, she found herself devising several options for him to escape once a maid stumbled upon them and sounded an alarm.  Discovering that he didn't even carry a weapon, she gave him a hairbrush to hide in his pocket to pretend it was a gun --- then directed him to use her as a hostage to get himself safely out of the house.  It would have been a ploy on her part, had not an over zealous footman decided to try to save her and in the ensuing fracas, shoot him.  Somehow, Charlotte still helped him make good his escape.<br />Following the disaster of his fumbled burglary, Harrison Payne, earl of Bryden - barely conscious, was amazed at the unexpected assistance he received from this slight and quite lovely young woman.  Totally baffled by her assistance in his escape, he would then be mystified when days later she would have the audacity to clumsily attempt to blackmail him.  Soon he discovers that this multifaceted young woman with a mysterious past had even more secrets to hide than his own and she had completely stolen his heart.<br />From the very first chapter, this book along with all the very colorful and unique secondary characters, will take you on a trip back to the reality of life in the late 1800s. Amidst the laughter that the motley crew of secondary characters will instill in you, you will also feel the pain of life for those less fortunates. Charlotte is indeed a heroine in this tale and you will cheer her on as love comes at last in a fairytale come true for this gallant lass!  This is a wonderful sequel to the series that began with THE PRISONER, and THE WEDDING ESCAPE that I heartily recommend.	2003-12-30
851254:US	45284807	R3AMZXPPCI5H4F	0446611115	238390054	The Scoundrel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dynamite Second Installment on the Series!	Setting, 1371 Scotland ----  In THE SCOUNDREL, the second book in the Ravensmuir series, Gawain Lammergeier has stolen from his brother Merlyns keep the legendary Titulus Croce.  Gawain feels that this is his due from a father who was to me the real scoundrel! Stopping for the night in an inn Gawain is approached by a stunningly beautiful whore who boldly set her sights on him acting as if she was there just waiting for his arrival.  Gawain, being the scoundrel and thief that he was noted for, went along with her and they had a truly memorable night of bed sport made more memorable in the morning once he awakened and found the Titulus Croce gone!<br /> The stunningly beautiful whore, turned out to be the Lady Elspeths daughter, Lady Evangeline of Inverfyre.  Elspeth on her dying bed informed Evangeline that her father had died from a fit of apoplexy when after the theft of the legendary icon, the thieves offered to sell it back to him at an exorbitant price.  Evangeline vowed to make it right, remembering from childhood the golden-haired thief whom she had once suffered a crush over.  On her way to Ravensmuir to steal it back, it was by chance that she recognized Gawain entering the inn so she seized the moment  and seduced him.  The story is so lively after that with Gawain  who truly is a scoundrel (though charmingly so) himself - going boldly back again, and again, to steal it back from her. In some instances it was quite comical as these two matched wits against each other, even against the backdrop of some truly treacherous acts going on.<br />Claire Delacroix provides a truly imaginative tale that her legion of fans should truly appreciate in this second installment in the Ravensmuir series!  Having read the third and first installments already, I can testify to the fact that these all stand-alone and are surely worth the effort of locating and enjoying both the sensual delights and wonderfully witty dialogs of this series.	2003-12-28
855642:US	45284807	R20V6NHCOYKKX0	0446611107	632431094	The Rogue	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Interesting and exciting	Setting - Scotland 1371 --- The story opens with our heroine, Ysabella, who was once married then left the wealthy Merlyn Lammergeier, laird of Ravensmuir, five years previously after only a fortnight of marriage.  She is shunned by the townspeople after they believe she had been cast off and set aside by her husband. In order to support her sister and brother, she is forced to brew ale under the auspices of another due to arcane local ordinances.  It is a meager existence but one of her choosing since she rejected and abandoned the husband she could not reconcile herself with once she believed that he dealt in stolen religious artifacts.  Now, Merlyn has returned to reclaim her and though she certainly feels the passion he elicits in her she spurns him again.<br />The next day she is informed that Merlyn has been murdered and she is his heiress, inheriting Ravensmuir which she promptly moves her family into.  Her first night in her solar and she dreams of making quite passionate love to Merlyn, only to discover the next morning that it wasn't a dream but reality.  Merlyn is alive, having survived an ambush, and he asks Ysabella to continue to play a grieving widow to help him discover his assailant.<br />The intrigue and mystery of the book is very clever with a couple of surprises, though somewhat predictable.  The reader should find the historical aspect of this novel very interesting highlighting the illicit religious artifact trade that was prevalent in that period.  Ysabella's illiteracy, figuring prominently and another source of conflict in the marriage, was also an interesting historical aspect to discover in how it was dealt with during that period.  Of course, Ysabella's continued obstinacy did begin to grate on my nerves as I found Merlyn to be quite charming and most deserving of a second chance and her `secret' was really quite easy to figure out.  All in all, I would definitely recommend this first book in the Ravensmuir saga, and though I was introduced to the series by reading the third book first, they both stand alone and are engrossing and fabulously exciting reads by this very talented and gifted author.troduced to the series by reading the third book first, they both stand alone and are engrossing and fabulously exciting reads by this very talented and gifted author.	2003-12-23
875005:US	45284807	R10PW7X9VMWUZY	0821756338	341186470	A Whisper Of Violets (Lovegram Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable Regency - Original	Setting - London 1807 ---  In this very lovely regency novel you are introduced to Nicholas Derrington, earl of Seacombe.  He is attending an auction in an attempt to procure a portion of a musical composition by a foreign composer that is reputed to have the name of a traitor written in code on the back of it.  For a very different and more sentimental reason, Dorian St. John, twenty-five year old trend setting heiress, is also bidding against him for the same piece of music.  She and her twin brother Davis were orphaned and brought up by their beloved aunt Charlotte, who is in failing health. Charlotte was once a lover to the composer and the missing musical composition was a love song written for Charlotte and smuggled out of prison in pieces.<br />For Nicholas, it is a matter of honor to locate the composition to prove that the charges of treason leveled against him, but not proved, were an attempt to frame him and totally false.  Dorian, has one piece of the missing musical score, he wins the second, and to obtain the third they agree to join forces.  While neither seem to trust each others motives, they cannot deny, admit, or control their attraction to one another and when caught by her brother in a compromising situation, rather than see a duel between the two men she cares about Dorian engineers a compromise by betrothing herself to Nicholas leaving him totally stunned.<br />This was an enjoyable, original and sexy regency that actually had two romances going on.  Not only were Dorian and Nicholas' romantic and sensual interludes enjoyable but Davis, Dorian's brother, who started out as a pompous uptight young man doing his best to romance and impress the daughter of a duke, literally was brought to his knees by the very earthy, delightful, and down to earth widow Susannah.  I found myself chuckling quite often by the all-too-human feelings of sexual attraction run rampant.  While the true traitor was doing his best to prevent exposure, it was somewhat of a surprise to discover who it was even though I developed my own suspicions earlier in the novel.  If you can locate a copy of this OOP book I would certainly recommend it.  Original...a surprise to discover who it was even though I developed my own suspicions earlier in the novel.  If you can locate a copy of this OOP book I would certainly recommend it.   Original...	2003-12-06
879316:US	45284807	R3U1HVZGRLOCJT	1590802330	937993983	The Dragon Laird	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Spectacular Sensual Fantasy Romance	Dylan Connor MacGregor, wasn't one to believe in religion, the Druids of old, magic - he believed in bow, blade and the strength of his arm.  Born in darkness and marked with the print of a dragon, it was said he was cursed and held in fear, though he was a fair laird, none would venture too near.  Searching for two of his men that were missing, he came upon a secluded pool and beheld that which he knew to be his soul mate.  A lass so lovely, a vision with eyes of green so brilliant that they seared his heart and soul and he knew he would one day have her.<br />Rhiannon was orphaned along with her brother Robbie, yet when troubled she drew her strength from this, her hidden pool.  She thought she was being watched, but glancing around found no one, as Dylan was hidden in the forests shadows.  Removing the wreath of flowers from her head she sank into bliss in her very special pool.  When she failed to reappear Dylan stepped out of the shadows to examine the wreath which held some strands of her fiery hair.  He left to continue the search for his missing men, but vowed to himself that their paths would cross again some day.  That same day, the old woman, Dela, whom Rhiannon  would visit would tell her that she saw her future .....&quot;Among enemies, a warrior who carries the dragon's mark will be the half you seek in destroying evil.&quot;  In a very short time, Rhiannon would find the truth of who she was and join forces with her soul mate to battle against evil sorcerers and rouge dragons to save the earth.<br />This was a wonderfully crafted fantasy romance filled with vividly descriptive scenes, beautiful mystical imagery, and sensually passionate romantic interludes! For a debut novel, this is definitely an author to watch as she takes you on a roller coaster ride of non-stop excitement in this fantasy realm.  I for one will be looking forward to further offerings by this author after this spectacular debut!	2003-12-03
884860:US	45284807	R1G651TDN230UF	0060527412	560731383	For the First Time	Books	5	24	24	N	N	She Stirs My Imagination and NOT for the First Time	In this first novel in the Ryland Brothers series, Devlin Ryland, Waterloo war hero has returned to London in triumph, acclaimed for his courage and daring as he saved the life of one of England's officers. Devlin is embarrassed by the attention, as he wants no part of this, his newfound glory, nor reminders of a war and the part he played in it.  A very good friend (from ELUSIVE PASSION) invited him to a house party on the outskirts of London, mentioning that he might be interested in looking at a property nearby to settle down in.  It was at this house party that he would discover a woman who kindled his interest and desires like none he had ever met before the sister of his host, the tall and beautiful Lady Blythe Christian.<br />Unfortunately, the lady who brings all his yearnings to the forefront, and stirring passions and feelings he is too afraid to recognize, wants nothing at all to do with England's heralded champion.  This hero, Devlin, saved the life of the man who was Blythe's betrothed...who after he recovered, heartlessly married another. No matter how devastatingly handsome, kind and gentle he appears to her, Devlin is a constant reminder of the pain and humiliation she felt at being betrayed.  As a result of this betrayal, Blythe, has sworn to never marry, never trust her heart to another man only to run the risk of having it broken again.  Devlin, dealing with his own feelings of inadequacy for all the adulation of being a hero, didn't believe he knew what love was.  The only thing he knew was that no one made him feel like this and with Blythe, for the first time he found himself wanting something more.<br />This was a fabulous `love' story.  It was honest, it was passionate and it pulled at my heartstrings.  This author writes with a lot of `soul' and it is the type of book you can get emotionally involved in - WOW!  Not only do you feel for the central characters, but she will have you feeling emotional over the joys and heartbreaks of her secondary characters as well.  This was a total read for me and I am eagerly anticipating the release of the sequels on the remaining Ryland brothers.  Outstanding imagery and great sensual love scenes - what more can you ask!ndary characters as well.  This was a total read for me and I am eagerly anticipating the release of the sequels on the remaining Ryland brothers.  Outstanding imagery and great sensual love scenes - what more can you ask!	2003-11-28
886474:US	45284807	R3ORS6FG0IVTT	0060536705	956542328	Who Will Take This Man? (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining	It should have been the wedding of the year, but Philip Whitmore, Viscount Greybourne, discovers that it's not so easy, when it comes to something as ordinary as getting married. First of all, on the way home he translates an ancient stone tablet that curses him and  dooms any woman foolish enough to marry him.  Feeling honor bound to inform Lady Sarah, his handpicked beautiful society bride, of the curse, she left him at the altar.  To top it all off, the matchmaker arranging this `wedding of the year' just happens to be so very beautiful that he finds it quite difficult to even think of marrying anyone else!<br />Unfortunately, Meredith Chilton-Grizedale's entire future depended on this brilliant match she had personally arranged coming to fruition! She needed this to solidify her reputation as the most brilliant of matchmakers! Following the fiasco of the `marriage that didn't happen', coupled with the rumors running rampant of the Viscount's `curse'  she had her work cut out for her!  She now had to find someone to marry the `most unmarriageable man' in England!  But nothing prepared her for she herself falling in love with him. Allowing themselves to admit to their attraction and love for one another would find them racing against time and a mysterious madman out to destroy them.<br />As a rule I've found D'Alessandro's work to be fast paced, sensual and very amusing.  I certainly enjoyed the secondary characters and the romance that sprung between Albert and Charlotte.  However, I was disappointed that there was not another romance that I felt was hinted at but never capitalized on between Andrew and Lady Catherine.  While this was an interesting plot, I was not overwhelmed with a race to turn the pages, nor did I find it as amusing as some of her previous novels ---- which is not to say it wasn't a good read because it was entertaining - it was just not what I would categorize as great!	2003-11-26
888217:US	45284807	R1VD9SRV4VOZDS	0843952997	622656172	The Tiger & the Tomb	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A totally Action packed Sensual Adventure	Lady Katherine Smithfield, is in Egypt with her father to complete betrothal arrangements for a marriage promised years earlier between her and a family friend of her deceased mother. He was called Nazim, whom she assumed was some kind of goat-herder and not too thrilled, but she would obey her father's wishes to honor her mothers last dying request. Katherine didn't expect much of the marriage since an accident had scarred her face. She knew, by the looks of revulsion from her peers, that no one else would be offering for her.  Unfortunately, the betrothal was the last thing on her mind as Katherine was being blackmailed and forced by unscrupulous tomb raiders to become a thief in order to save her father from being framed for a crime and locked up in an Egyptian jail where she was promised - accidents happen all the time. She instructed to find the man called Ramses and steal the map that he carried on him which showed the way to a gold mine.  This man, whose reputation as an incomparable lover, was gloriously handsome and Katherine would have to disguise herself as a veiled Egyptian in order to get close enough to steal the map.<br />Ramses, aware of his reputation, used it to his advantage, giving as much pleasure as he took, knowing that once he married his dreaded English bride there would be no more dalliances.  He was honor bound as a Guardian of the Ages to complete the betrothal process, taking the name of Nazim - and he would also swear an oath to cleave unto no woman but his wife. Before going to sign the necessary betrothal papers, Ramses, was to meet a woman who was looking to breed her mare with one of his famous Arabian stallions.  Katherine was using this as an excuse to have Ramses meet her discreetly.  After a `double entendre' conversation it was not clear as to which `stud' service she was looking for, but after one kiss that shook her to the core, she almost forgot to steal the map - but with that kiss she stole a piece of Ramses heart.<br />Ramses, later discovering the map to be gone, knew where it would lead and vowed that they would meet again - his little thief with green eyes.  In an attempt to save her from her captors, he would be mortally wounded and she would end up saving him.  Through the days of convalescence, alone in a desert cave, Ramses would discover that his enigmatic `lotus flower' was actually his betrothed English bride. He would have his hands full trying to convince her to trust him but his bigger battle would be convincing her that he thought her beautiful and should not hide her face behind a veil.<br />Wow!  This romance was soooo very hot - and I don't mean because of the setting in the Egyptian desert - that it could almost be classified as erotic! Not only was the plot fast paced with plenty of suspense and romance, but the interplay between Ramses and Katherine was fabulously sensual along with the touching openness and honesty of their feelings for one another.  The secondary characters were well thought out and the interplay between Ramses and best friend Jabari will make you chuckle, as well as have you running back to the bookstore to pick up Jabari's story in Vanak's first book, the FALCON AND THE DOVE.  With this story, Vanak has written a totally sensually satisfying and action packed romantic adventure I highly recommend!/>Ramses, later discovering the map to be gone, knew where it would lead and vowed that they would meet again - his little thief with green eyes.  In an attempt to save her from her captors, he would be mortally wounded and she would end up saving him.  Through the days of convalescence, alone in a desert cave, Ramses would discover that his enigmatic `lotus flower' was actually his betrothed English bride. He would have his hands full trying to convince her to trust him but his bigger battle would be convincing her that he thought her beautiful and should not hide her face behind a veil.  <br />Wow!  This romance was soooo very hot - and I don't mean because of the setting in the Egyptian desert - that it could almost be classified as erotic! Not only was the plot fast paced with plenty of suspense and romance, but the interplay between Ramses and Katherine was fabulously sensual along with the touching openness and honesty of their feelings for one another.  The secondary characters were well thought out and the interplay between Ramses and best friend Jabari will make you chuckle, as well as have you running back to the bookstore to pick up Jabari's story in Vanak's first book, the FALCON AND THE DOVE.   With this story, Vanak has written a totally sensually satisfying and action packed romantic adventure I highly recommend!	2003-11-25
889153:US	45284807	R3M5SRKORUU5S9	0373292856	558603697	The Surgeon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Witty, Charming and Totally Enjoyable!	Dr. John Calloway, chief surgeon for the North West Mounted Police in Calgary, Canada had finished surgery after a very long day.  Short handed since his best friend and assistant surgeon, Wesley Quinn, had been murdered the only thing he needed was a little rest. Heading for his quarters he couldn't help but notice some strange smirks and smiles on the faces of the men he passed. Once he reached his room, he was surprised to find a pretty young woman who appeared to be going through his closet - slightly embarrassed at being caught - yet smiling as if he should know who she was.  Sarah O'Neill was not expecting to see such a handsome man walk through the door, although very pleasantly surprised, and even though she had arrived early - something didn't seem quite right that her future husband didn't seem to even recognize her name!<br />What Sarah didn't know, of course, was that he had no idea who she was! The men under his command, as a practical joke but with good intentions, thought that their commanding officer needed some companionship.  They paid for an advertisement, exchanged letters in his name, selected a woman, then sent her a ticket to come to Calgary! Unfortunately, for Sarah, John's opinion on mail-order brides was that he didn't believe that any self-respecting woman should be that desperate to accept that type of marriage and probably had no backbone to begin with! John, thinking that all he had to do was furnish her a ticket home, was surprised when she announced that she would be getting a job and staying!<br />The author based this story upon an actual incident where North West Mounties procured a mail order bride for their commanding officer.  In the real life incident the woman was sent home but in this story the author gave us a charming story of what could have been!  She used the incident to create a beautifully drawn out, plucky and courageous heroine who possessed a very unusual talent for her day and age, that of being a gunsmith. While the author portrays the physical attraction between John and Sarah with a deft hand showing humor and sensuality, she also lets you feel the pain and anguish of two people who really knew nothing of each other and holding back that very important element of any good relationship, namely communication and trust.  Personally, there were times reading this that I wanted to shake them both!  All else aside, I found this author's writing rift with wit, charm and portraying life in Northwest Canada as the next best thing to being there. Bottom line, I found this was a very enjoyable and original story that I do highly recommend.e the author portrays the physical attraction between John and Sarah with a deft hand showing humor and sensuality, she also lets you feel the pain and anguish of two people who really knew nothing of each other and holding back that very important element of any good relationship, namely communication and trust.  Personally, there were times reading this that I wanted to shake them both!  All else aside, I found this author's writing rift with wit, charm and portraying life in Northwest Canada as the next best thing to being there. Bottom line, I found this was a very enjoyable and original story that I do highly recommend.	2003-11-24
889304:US	45284807	R34PB8IJVQU0WZ	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	This PLOT ROCKS!	In this, one of the best of Lisa Kleypas' novels, you get the opportunity to really delve into the inner psyche of Derek Craven, who was introduced to you in the first of the `Gambler series' THEN CAME YOU.  As one of the wealthiest and successful gambling club owners in England, Derek Craven, was the brash cockney `bastard' child of a prostitute, born in a sewer pipe, left to die, and raised by prostitutes and thieves.  With Derek, after his life of poverty and his subsequent monetary success, trust in his fellow man was near to non-existent nor did it come easily to even his most trusted friends.<br />Sara Fielding, whose fertile imagination and research had made her a successful author happened to be in the rookery one evening when she chanced upon a man being set upon by two thugs, pulling out the gun she carried for protection, she accidentally shot one assailant and saved the life of Derek Craven.  Forced by gratitude for saving his life, Derek allowed her into his world of the high roller gamblers in the interest of  her `research'.  Jaded and cautious of allowing himself close to anyone, Sara's presence in his club was soon the bane of his existence as he was exceedingly drawn to her.  Knowing where he came from and the things he had done to get there, her goodness and gentleness was something he felt he didn't deserve.  Fighting feelings of attraction, he pushed her away until fate and an interfering friend would draw them back together - into both passion and machinations of revenge from a dangerous madwoman in Derek's past.<br />Next to the most outstanding writing you can get in a historical, this plot ROCKS! It is not the fairytale of two people of noble blood, but two very deserving and special people who fall in love and beat all the odds of having a fairytale come true.  As always, her dialogs are spicy and entertaining, all the supporting characters come vivdly to life and the passion is quite palatable.  This is a reissue of a book that fans of this genre should RUSH to get and put on their keeper shelf to enjoy again and again!his genre should RUSH to get and put on their keeper shelf to enjoy again and again!	2003-11-24
889895:US	45284807	R1FERPXOF2CIPW	0060517611	456521827	The Lady in Question (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Book to Warm Your Heart	Setting - London 1820 --- Barely a wife and now a widow, Philadelphia `Delia' Effington, Lady Wilton, has returned to London from a six month stay in the Lake District hoping that the gossip from her precipitous and scandalous marriage to Charles Wilton had died down - but mostly because she missed her family and wanted nothing more than to have them welcome her back into their fold.  What Delia didn't know was that her husband had been working as an agent for the government and her life could be in danger.  Consequently, the very dashing bachelor, Viscount Anthony `Tony' St. Stephens, an agent himself, disguised himself as her elderly butler, and was installed in her house, along with a team of agents to protect her.<br />In a most unusual household, with a bumbling butler, a footman who resembled a linebacker for the Green Bay packers, and a cook whose culinary skills were non-existent, Delia would form a bond of friendship with her elderly butler, never realizing that his bumbling wasn't due to his advanced age - poor dear - but because he'd never been trained as one.  Tony was a good listener though, and as Delia poured her heart out, he was losing his - to her!  Soon Tony would be playing a dual role, as the butler and himself as a totally smitten suitor.<br />No matter how the dashing viscount stirred her heart Delia, now independent, and still wanting grand adventures, didn't want to make another mistake. Tony would have to convince her that marrying him would be the grandest of adventures.<br />This was a charming romance that had me smiling from front to back cover.  Though the description speaks of the mystery of a missing notebook, that portion of the plot paled and seemed to fall to the wayside as the romance and seduction took center stage.  I didn't find the book to be much of a mystery so much as a lighthearted and sweetly enjoyable regency romance. I will say that what I have experienced while reading this author's work is that she has a way with turning phrases into the most delightful and witty dialogs! Reading her words is like watching a movie with all the pauses for effect a fine actor would incorporate in his delivery.  Truly enjoyable and definitely a book I can recommend to warm your heart.urning phrases into the most delightful and witty dialogs! Reading her words is like watching a movie with all the pauses for effect a fine actor would incorporate in his delivery.  Truly enjoyable and definitely a book I can recommend to warm your heart.	2003-11-24
893285:US	45284807	R37APHIBKK5GNM	038077013X	689464190	Then Came You (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Still Sizzles the Second Time Around!!!	In this most excellent read by Lisa Kleypas, you are introduced to one of her more endearing heroines.  Lily Lawson, sometimes referred to as Lawless Lily is known as a true eccentric and outrageous young woman. She gambles, swears, rides astride in pink breeches and seems to delight in shocking escapades.  She wasn't always that way but after being jilted at the altar by her fianc&eacute; and her subsequent escape to Italy --- what had once been termed adventurous behavior was now termed outrageous!  When an old and dear friend Zachary, Lord Stamford comes to her pleading that she intervene for him to save her sister Penny from marrying the harsh and cold Lord Alex Raiford, Earl of Wolverton, she finds that she couldn't refuse his request and travels to investigate herself how unsuitable a match this earl would be for her sister.<br />Alex's impression of Lily was that she was no better than a demimonde - he'd heard the rumors of her association with the gamester, Derek Craven and her outrageous behavior only reinforced his opinion.  The fact that he was seriously attracted to her only further enraged him as he saw through her charade in attempting to bring Zachary, the man her sister Penny was secretly in love with back together.  After Lily successfully engineered  her sisters elopement she knew that Alex would be out to punish her, but she never dreamed that the punishment would be so satisfyingly sensual!<br />I first read THEN CAME YOU some years back and even knowing the story, I thoroughly enjoyed every single dialog and sensually sizzling scene all over again! Lily, is a heroine that will both shock you with her antics and tug at your heartstrings with her hidden heartbreak of losing her daughter.  The secondary characters from her butler, to her good friend Derek Craven, and Alex's younger brother Harry are all carefully crafted to add depth and compassion to the story.  The love Alex came to feel for Lily is the sort one can only dream of  and he has been added to my list of my top ten heros! This is an extremely difficult book to put down, as for the second time around with this reissue, Lisa Kleypas will delight her readers again!dded to my list of my top ten heros! This is an extremely difficult book to put down, as for the second time around with this reissue, Lisa Kleypas will delight her readers again!	2003-11-21
894707:US	45284807	R1H328SRR6BRQB	0060002069	774889342	The Lady Chosen (Bastion Club)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Long Laborious Read	Setting - London 1815  ---  First, I will say that I am a BIG Fan of Stephanie Laurens and was sincerely looking forward to the start of her new series.  The premise of seven very eligible bachelors of rank and title - all home from dangerous missions on the continent following the battle of Waterloo forming a club of sorts to select their own brides and not be set upon or harangued by well meaning matchmakers sounded amusing and fun.  Being familiar with Ms. Laurens work this was something I looked forward to.<br />Tristan Wemyss, Earl of Trentham, is the first to be featured in this series.  It is he who is overseeing the work being done on the home that these gentlemen were renovating as a `club' to meet and commiserate with one another.  Tristan, was the recipient of an unexpected large inheritance that came both with the responsibility of supporting fourteen older female aunts and cousins along with  a time stipulation that made it imperative that he marry within a year or lose quite a bit of the monies that came with it. Naturally, our hero never planned marriage and was miffed that he would be forced into it. He finds himself attracted to a very attractive spinster living in the house next to their club.  Leonora Carling, is attractive, a spinster - who appears to have no interest in marriage.  After a series of unsuccessful burglaries and disturbing coincidences they form a partnership to delve into the matter - while both fight a burgeoning physical attraction.<br />As to why I did not give this book a higher rating there were many reasons.  Leonora Carling has to be one of  the least likeable heroines I have ever encountered.  She savors her independent lifestyle yet after about 100-200 pages she sets out to seduce Tristan, then the rest of the book has him trying to convince her to marry him as she continually refuses him.  If it were not for some very typically wonderful sensual seductions on the part of Tristan I probably would not have finished this book.  The mysterious burglaries and the reason for them was one of the weaker aspects of the plot and seemed to go round and round in circles where you really didn't even care to know the answer.  Boring!  In my opinion, this was not worthy of this authors talent as it appeared she was just filling a quota of pages - over 400 - which made this one of the more laborious reads of the year!is book.  The mysterious burglaries and the reason for them was one of the weaker aspects of the plot and seemed to go round and round in circles where you really didn't even care to know the answer.  Boring!   In my opinion, this was not worthy of this authors talent as it appeared she was just filling a quota of pages - over 400 - which made this one of the more laborious reads of the year!	2003-11-19
897030:US	45284807	R7DDOHAHKIX5Q	0451209745	778365456	Until You	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding Sensual Historical Romance	Setting ? England, Scotland, Italy 1511 --- UNTIL YOU is the continuation of the Friarsgate saga which began with ROSAMUND, the intrepid heroine from the book bearing that same name.  Rosamund Bolton, was the orphaned English beauty who's been married and widowed three times and now at the ripe old age of 22, will live life on her own terms.  She had been dutiful, done what was expected of her, mothered three daughters and will now live her life to please herself.  IF she marries again it will be for love and a man of her OWN choosing.  <br />An invitation to attend court at the side of her childhood friend, Margaret Tudor, Queen of Scotland, was exactly the excuse she needed to flee another mans marriage proposal. It would be here that she would meet an older widower (age 50) Patrick Leslie, earl of Glenkirk and an almost mystical happening of ?love at first sight? occurs from the very first moment their eyes meet.  Both Rosamund and Patrick are soul mates yet they both realize that as perfect as their love for one another is, their time would be limited together ? both being firmly attached to their individual estates.  They astounded the court with their instant affair and when the King of Scotland asked his old friend, Patrick to travel to San Lorenzo on a diplomatic assignment to prevent war between Scotland and England, Rosamund would travel with him to the continent.  Upon their return, Rosamund realizes that she could never be separated from Patrick and decides that they would marry within six months - once Patrick apprises his son of their decision.  Fate, fickle as it is, would soon render the decision moot as tragedy strikes and memories of a love so pure are all that are left to Rosamund.  Heartbroken, and grieving for lost love Rosamund is soon caught up in more court intrigues and fighting to preserve Friarsgate for her heiress daughter Phillipa.  Additionally, an old love waits on the sidelines for just the right moment to try and convince her of hislove.   <br />I had not read the prequel to this ?which I surely do plan to remedy ? but I can say that this surely stands alone and the reader will thoroughly enjoy this tale and be as eager as myself for the next book, which surely will have Rosamund?s daughters as the lead protagonists.  For those of you who like their historical romances RICH in historical detail then you surely will enjoy this book from the political intrigues, to the daily life of clothing, food, travel, etc.  then find yourself a comfortable chair to enjoy the continuation of the Friarsgate saga!	2003-11-18
902693:US	45284807	R2MQ1S9HWJIAGM	0060519711	726041225	Beloved Highlander	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This is an AUTHOR to Watch!!!	Following the success of her previous medieval trilogy, Ms. Bennett has crafted another fine historical romance novel that takes place in the Scottish Highlands of 1728 with a feisty, strong and independent heroine who is saved by, and saves the hero. Granted, a well-used plot vehicle but one that comes to life under the masterful wordsmith, Sara Bennett.<br />At the request of her father, General Mackintosh, Lady Margaret (Meg) set out on a mission to find Captain Gregor Grant, the man who would have been Laird of Glen Dhui, had he not obediently followed his Jacobite father and lost his inheritance in the uprising of 1715.  General Mackintosh, Meg's father, had befriended the young Gregor years before and through a set of circumstances, both had saved each other's lives.  Now, the General was looking for Gregor to save his daughter from a marriage contract he had arranged to a Duke whom he had recently learned might be a murderer.<br />Lady Margaret's (Meg) first impression of the glorious man she had imagined the boy artist, Gregor Grant had become, was disillusionment when she discovered him, in a tavern - drunk, wounded, and smelling the worse for wear after fighting a duel over a married woman.  Conversely, in Gregors inebriated state, this fiery haired Scottish lass with the brightest, bluest eyes he'd ever seen, though dressed in men's trews, looked like an angel.<br />Meg's father, knowing Gregor to be an honorable lad, was hoping that the years had not changed him, and asked that Gregor marry his daughter in an attempt to prevent the Duke of Abercauldy from marrying her.  Gregor, who was already very much attracted to Meg, agreed, but only if she approved it as well.  Both are very much in love with one another but their individual histories made them each afraid to admit it to one another.<br />The supporting characters of Michael Bain (Gregor's man) and Alison, as long lost lovers were a special treat and a well-crafted and enjoyable couple.  The pace was adequate and the lead duo was a delight.  All in all, this is another satisfying historical romance from an author who is fast making her mark and gaining fans in this genre.as adequate and the lead duo was a delight.  All in all, this is another satisfying historical romance from an author who is fast making her mark and gaining fans in this genre.	2003-11-13
912559:US	45284807	R13X5W986B6NAQ	0743453085	262550639	Wedding the Highlander (Highlander Trilogy)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Fabulous - Keep the Series Going!	I have thoroughly enjoyed the previous two books to this trilogy (or could it be a series?) but this latest entry, I must say, is simply OUTSTANDING!  Not only is it a time travel, but the sensuality almost borders on the erotic and it just simply made me smile and sigh as it ran me through a roller coaster of emotions.  To those of you who have not read the previous novels the author does a fine job of reiterating the main gist of the trilogy plot to bring you up to date - Basically, 800 years previously the wizard Daar in trying to send a certain highlander forward in time to meet his destiny (a woman who would bear him seven daughters, the last of which was to be Daar's apprentice) ended up sending eight highlanders, their war horses, and himself into modern day, Maine, USA.  Did I mention that Daar, in spite of being 1500 years old was slightly incompetent!<br />In this the third book of the trilogy, Libby, our modern day heroine doctor is fleeing from a hospital where she had found that she has the ability to `heal' - that is without modern day medicine.  Frightened of the possibility, she runs as far from California as she can get into the backwoods and pristine beauty of Maine where she runs into a big beautiful `he-man' type, Michael MacBain, a medieval highlander trapped in the modern world with an eight year old son.  Neither want the other to know their individual `secrets' and while they are attracted it is not spontaneous but builds beautifully into a very sensual and hot, romance - just yummy!<br />A big part of the book is devoted to Robbie, the eight-year-old son of our hero, who is simply a delightful depiction of a precocious child that you want to hug!  A little snippet from the book .... \\"Are ya Libby's mama? `Cause if ya are, I'll like ya, too.\\"  \\"Then I guess I am,\\" her mother replied, her warm brown eyes dancing with amusement. \\"And you can call me Katherine.\\"  Robbie thought about that, studying her for a good long time. \\"I think I'll call ya GRAM Katie,\\" he finally decided  \\" `cause OLD people like it when I call them things like that.\\"<br />All in all, I can say I THOROUGHLY enjoyed this book - cover to cover.  Fast paced, funny, sensual, sad, touching and I really do not want to see the end of this series!  Please, please, I want to see what becomes of the seventh daughter when she apprentices to the wizard Daar! Lovers of this time travel genre should be sure to add this book to their buy lists - in fact the entire series should be enjoyed.  If you like the writing of Lynn Kurland and Christina Skye's Draycott Abbey series you are sure to love this new author!ya GRAM Katie,\\" he finally decided  \\" `cause OLD people like it when I call them things like that.\\"  <br />All in all, I can say I THOROUGHLY enjoyed this book - cover to cover.  Fast paced, funny, sensual, sad, touching and I really do not want to see the end of this series!  Please, please, I want to see what becomes of the seventh daughter when she apprentices to the wizard Daar! Lovers of this time travel genre should be sure to add this book to their buy lists - in fact the entire series should be enjoyed.  If you like the writing of Lynn Kurland and Christina Skye's Draycott Abbey series you are sure to love this new author!	2003-11-05
924978:US	45284807	R2ZRU0LTV7IPBY	0060519703	165387113	Once He Loves	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ties up the Trilogy - YET Stands Alone	Setting North of York  1072 ---  Sara Bennett wraps up her medieval trilogy quite nicely with this last entry in the mini series with another stellar love story.  If you have read the pre-quels - LILY AND THE SWORD (Radulf and Lily) and THE ROSE AND THE SHIELD (Rose and Gunnar), you will see where this last entry ties up a mystery from the very first book.  Although, and I do stress this, you do not have to read the previous two novels in order to thoroughly enjoy this one as it does stand on it's own merit.<br />Briar Kenton, once a `Lady' of the manor of a rich and powerful Earl, has had to eat humble pie since her father, having been branded a traitor for rebelling against King William, had ended his own life leaving Briar and her two sisters, basically penniless and without a home.  Forced to survive on their own, Briar, who was reputed to have the voice of an angel and her sister Mary earned a meager living by entertaining at the noble homes in York, previously homes where they would have once been honored guests.  Briar, survived the last two years feeding off of her hatred for the man she held responsible for their state of affairs, the hated Lord Radulf.  She had heard the stories of Radulf's devotion to his wife Lily and thought to lure him to her bed, thus destroying the happiness he and his wife had.<br />Ivo de Vessey, a disgraced knight was now a mercenary in the employ of Radulf. Briar, mistakenly thinking he was Radulf lures him to her bed, fighting her attraction to the man she knew she should hate, and hating the wonderful and magical feelings his lovemaking did to her body.  When she discovers that Radulf never came to the party and she had slept with the wrong man, she was horrified.  Ivo, recognized Briar from his youth when he was a squire for her father.  He remembered her as the young child who idolized and had constantly followed him around and felt more than just lust for the beautiful but very prickly young woman.  He wanted desperately to protect her from herself, yet never felt, now that he was disgraced, that he was worthy of her.  His fallen knighthood and her being the daughter of a traitor did not bode well for either to have a happy conclusion, but cupid's arrow didn't take their backgrounds into account and their love blossomed.<br />While I found the story well written I found that two things kept me from giving it a higher rating.  One of course was Briar's very irritating behavior and insults to Ivo who I truly admired for his honesty and honor.  The other was the plan that Briar originally thought would destroy Radulf - it was never fully explained as to how it would destroy his marriage and didn't make too much sense to me. I thought this to be a very weak link in the story, otherwise, I found it to be action packed, with great sensual love scenes, and I particularly liked the very sweet secondary romance between Sweyn and Mary. Bottom line - the reader will not be disappointed as this was a wonderful trilogy and one I can highly recommend.y to protect her from herself, yet never felt, now that he was disgraced, that he was worthy of her.  His fallen knighthood and her being the daughter of a traitor did not bode well for either to have a happy conclusion, but cupid's arrow didn't take their backgrounds into account and their love blossomed.   <br />While I found the story well written I found that two things kept me from giving it a higher rating.  One of course was Briar's very irritating behavior and insults to Ivo who I truly admired for his honesty and honor.  The other was the plan that Briar originally thought would destroy Radulf - it was never fully explained as to how it would destroy his marriage and didn't make too much sense to me. I thought this to be a very weak link in the story, otherwise, I found it to be action packed, with great sensual love scenes, and I particularly liked the very sweet secondary romance between Sweyn and Mary. Bottom line - the reader will not be disappointed as this was a wonderful trilogy and one I can highly recommend.	2003-10-27
928947:US	45284807	R13I1ARNYHDSXU	0060002700	716096268	The Rose and the Shield	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Crisp writing, passionate and visual	Setting England - 1072 -----  In this sequel to THE LILY AND THE SWORD, Lord Radulf has intercepted a missive from one of his vassals asking for assistance from one of his enemies. In order to determine if the widow Lady Rose of Somerford has turned traitor to him, he sends one of his mercenaries, Gunnar Olafson and his men to see if what he fears is true.  If Gunnar can prove that Radulf's beloved wife Lily's prot&eacute;g&eacute; has turned against him, then Somerford manor would be given to him once he regains control.<br />Rose, a product of her time, knows she has been a bargaining chip and although she was shown kindness from her elderly and now deceased husband, she did not trust her heart to any of the male species. She would do whatever was necessary to keep control of and the care of her people.  Sir Arno, her knight whom she thought loyal, convinced her, that if she asked Radulf for help he would think her incompetent and take the control of Somerford out of her hands.  Gunnar, riding up and seeing a great looking harvest in the fields was thinking only that once the traitor, Lady Rose was ousted, this fertile demense would be his.  However, when Rose and Gunnar meet their attraction to one another is mutually fierce and disturbing. He to think he was attracted to a traitor, and she to a mercenary; though both attribute it to lust neither wanted to trust their feelings or each other.<br />THE ROSE AND THE SHIELD is an exciting historical romance sequel set during the reign of William the Conqueror after the Norman's landed.  Being a female in those tumultuous times, the thought of a loving and caring relationship would be but a dream, with your value being determined solely upon political alliances.  Knowing that a mercenary warred for coin, Rose fought her attraction as much as she could. Gunnar, raised in a home of love and devotion and once he realized Rose was innocent of treachery, prayed that she would learn to trust both him and her feelings.  Unfortunately, her independence was for me, just a little too rigid when she should have been able to see past his profession especially after such a sensual and thoroughly satisfying tryst;  to still doubt him, was a little hard to swallow.  This was still a good and satisfying read for lovers of this historical period and well worth your time. The writing is crisp, passionate, and quite visual so I am looking forward to the next sequel.y, her independence was for me, just a little too rigid when she should have been able to see past his profession especially after such a sensual and thoroughly satisfying tryst;  to still doubt him, was a little hard to swallow.  This was still a good and satisfying read for lovers of this historical period and well worth your time. The writing is crisp, passionate, and quite visual so I am looking forward to the next sequel.	2003-10-23
934430:US	45284807	R23FWIAVLU4J7L	0060002697	224634936	The Lily and the Sword	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Debut Medieval Novel	Setting - Northumbria - North of England 1070 ---<br />Lady Lily is running for her life from Radulf, the `King's Sword' - the scourge, the hideous ogre with a bloody sword, who has been sent by the king to slay all who fought him.  She is the Saxon widow of Vorgen, the Norman traitor who betrayed King William.  Vorgen, despised husband, who killed her father, then wedded her over his dead body.  Lily arrived exhausted at  Grinswade Church, where she sought the priest and to bid a final farewell at the graves of her parents- but luck was not with her.<br />Radulf arrives at the church and discovers Lily. When he asked who she was, she lies and gives him the name of Lily, the pet name her father used for her, and also tells him that she is the daughter of the Earl of Morcar, who remains a loyal vassal to King William the Conqueror.  Radulf finds himself fiercely attracted to this cool silver blonde beauty and accepts her story at face value.  He has been betrayed by a woman before and is wary, but he has also never had this overwhelming attraction before.  He vows to protect her and return her to her father.  Lily herself is drawn to this man, her enemy, who would slay her should he discover that she is the `she-wolf' he hunts.  Not only do they both fall in love  (of course, they don't admit this to each other) they have an exquisitely hot and sensual time of it before he discovers that he has been deceived once again, by a woman.<br />THE LILY AND THE SWORD follows the mold of an exciting medieval romance with a lusty, gorgeous alpha-male and divine female.  Radulf is the mighty warrior but with the respect and love of his men and vassals - the tales of his brutality are just that - tales!  Lily is a by-product of being the abused wife of an old, impotent and hateful man.  Out of necessity and self-preservation she has hardened her heart to not trust her feelings or any man, before enduring any more betrayals and pain.  Their love story is that which will bring a tear to your eye at the inevitable conclusion.  This is a stellar start for a debut novel from this new author who bears watching.  I found this fast paced novel to be an outstanding and truly enjoyable read for lovers of medieval historic romance.bring a tear to your eye at the inevitable conclusion.  This is a stellar start for a debut novel from this new author who bears watching.  I found this fast paced novel to be an outstanding and truly enjoyable read for lovers of medieval historic romance.	2003-10-19
936733:US	45284807	RXQBHUXQDBX4S	0373289073	447155581	Fool's Paradise (March Madness) (Harlequin Historical No 307)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Cute Elizabethan Romance	Setting - England 1580's -  Under normal circumstances the Lady Elizabeth would not even be aware of Richard Tarleton, famed court jester of her godmother, Queen Elizabeth I - but these were not normal circumstances, as Lady Elizabeth Hayward was fleeing her betrothed, the odious Sir Robert LaFaye from him forcing her to wed him.  At Elizabeth's request, her father had agreed to cancel the betrothal but before the proper papers could be signed, her father died and she suspected that Sir Robert had poisoned him.  Unfortunately, the horse she was riding threw her and now, alone and on foot, she had nowhere to turn, until she heard a cherry song in the woods.  Following the sounds she came upon a naked man finishing up his morning dip.<br />Tarleton is aware of his good looks and charm is not in the least embarrassed by his attire, or lack thereof,  and discovers the story behind the fair Lady Elizabeth's early morning flight.  She convinces him to escort her to Hampton Court, summer palace of the Queen, where she can hope to convince her godmother to set aside her betrothal.  Tarleton, who also roams around the countryside to gather information for the queen's spymaster, helps her to don a disguise and they set off on a sometimes merry, and sometimes harrowing adventure.<br />The love between Elizabeth and Dickon is so sweet and tender, even though Tarleton knows the fair lady is so far above him in rank, he being base born, it does not keep him from losing his heart.  He recognizes that Elizabeth is falling for him and, realizing what could never be, does his best to discourage her affection.  This was in my opinion a really good historical romance.  The details of the intrigues of the period were adequate, making it interesting, and the well-developed secondary characters added to the enjoyment. This was quite a good effort for this author's debut novel and one that I can recommend for lovers of romance in the Elizabethan era.	2003-10-17
943680:US	45284807	RZISHPJ1L72C0	0553575007	826575056	Touch of Enchantment	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining Time Travel	A TOUCH OF ENCHANTMENT is the sequel to BREATH  OF MAGIC which takes place some twenty or so years later.  Our heroine Tabitha, is the only child of Tristan and Arian Lennox. She's inherited her mother's magical abilities -  which she does her best to curb -- and her father's genius mind as well as being sole heir to an amazing fortune.  Yet, she is not a happy person, hides behind towering walls wolfing down bowls of Haagen-Dazs.  She is also a bit of a recluse, a computer nerd as well as socially inept with the opposite sex. Her parents have gone missing and presumed dead, and she is given an envelope detailing things about a mysterious amulet of her mother's. She recovers the amulet from where her mother had hidden it,  starts to analyze it when all of a sudden it propels her back to the 13th medieval century.<br />Once Tabitha is swept back in time she runs into our hero, Sir Colin Ravenshaw, a knight who is not having a great day that only tends to get worse once he attempts to aid the person in the funny looking clothes of the 20th century.  While I was certainly happy to have the sequel to Breath of Magic, and it was very well written and entertaining, I did not find it to be as enjoyable as the prequel.  It is cute, humorous and a very fast read but, after a while, I did tire of Tabitha's many references to things and language from the 20th century to be a bit annoying.  Just a bit too much for my taste.  But in the end, I did find myself all choked up (again) and reaching for tissues.  Arghhhh,  a true mark of enjoyment for me when the author moves me to tears with joy or sadness.<br />It was wonderful catching up with characters from her previous book, and this is not to say that this does not stand-alone because it does.  In fact, I find it to be one of  Medeiros' great strengths  in giving you a stand alone book regardless of ties to the prequels.  She also gives you a number of new and endearingly sweet and loveable secondary characters that turn this into another entertaining time travel that fans of this genre will want to put on their buy list.s into another entertaining time travel that fans of this genre will want to put on their buy list.	2003-10-12
944008:US	45284807	R7LWPSVBYXHOO	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Loved It !!!!	Setting - London 1825 --- Carlotta &quot;Lottie&quot; Fairleigh at the ripe age of 21 is finally, to have her debut ball.  Minutes before the first guest would be arriving she and her best friend Harriett, are lamenting the fact that her hoyden days where she was well known as the \\"Hertforshire Hellion\\" were fast coming to an end.  Innocently, Harriet had just given her incentive for one last adventure before having to behave and act like a lady for the rest of her days.  Right next door,and over the garden wall sat the rented home of Hayden St. Clair, scandalously dubbed the \\"Murderous Marquess\\".  Dreaming of one day becoming a famous author, she couldn't possibly miss her one chance to see, such a scandalous man, and give her ideas for a future villain in her fiction.  After all he'd killed his best friend in a duel and then he wife had such an unfortunate and fatal `accident'.<br />Hayden had vowed to never marry again, had come to London for only one reason, to find a woman.  What he was not looking for was to have himself and the little blonde trespasser compromised.  In spite of Hayden's refusal to wed her, Lottie, realizing that her latest escapade had ruined her, and not wanting to see harm come to her brother-in-law who would be honor bound to fight a duel, snuck off and managed to convince Hayden to save her from ruin.  Reluctantly, Hayden agrees to marry her then whisks her off to his remote Cornwell estate where ghostly apparitions, purported to be of his first wife, haunt the halls and himself.<br />Settling in and doing her best to keep up her own spirits from the disregard Hayden shows her, Lottie, in her own indubitable way, wins the favor, and acceptance of the daughter he neglected to tell her about and his staff.  However, what Lottie most wanted was to win both his regard and his love, as she came to realize that the tortured man who was now her husband was also the man she was falling in love with.<br />This engaging novel has humor, mystery, tenderness and a bit of a gothic-underlying theme.  Lottie, is an extremely likeable and very courageous heroine. She has her work cut out for her as she battles to break through her husbands reserve to find the open and friendly man his best friend described to her as the man he once was.  I found it to be a very fast read with twists and turns that had me hating to put the book down.  Most of all,  and contrary to other reviewers comments,  I found the ghost theme central and key in this story which rather than turn me off  thoroughly enchanted me.  Teresa Medeiros has again provided a thoroughly enjoyable, tender, and fun tale that will give pleasure to a multitude of her fans.ry, tenderness and a bit of a gothic-underlying theme.  Lottie, is an extremely likeable and very courageous heroine. She has her work cut out for her as she battles to break through her husbands reserve to find the open and friendly man his best friend described to her as the man he once was.  I found it to be a very fast read with twists and turns that had me hating to put the book down.  Most of all,  and contrary to other reviewers comments,  I found the ghost theme central and key in this story which rather than turn me off  thoroughly enchanted me.  Teresa Medeiros has again provided a thoroughly enjoyable, tender, and fun tale that will give pleasure to a multitude of her fans.	2003-10-11
946134:US	45284807	R2B0D0V0GOLXLB	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cute and Humorous	Miss Gwendolyn Wilder, was perhaps the most learned person in Ballybliss, the local reverend notwithstanding.  She did not believe in dragons, but the majority of populus, simple and superstitious, did. The latest note from the Dragon, demanded food and a huge sum of money and so, the villagers decided to give him a 'sacrifice' instead, thinking a nice delectable virgin would do the trick.  A virgin sacrifice! So, being the only virgin in the village, Gwendolyn is dragged up to the castle, tied to a pole in the courtyard, and left to await the Dragon.<br />While Gwen knows that the so-called Dragon is a fraud - how could a Dragon write notes? - and that human intervention had to be the source of lights flickering and bagpipe playing, she does wonder what will happen next, especially since a storm is coming and if the so-called Dragon doesn't get her, she'll die of exposure!  As a black shape emerges from the shadows with smoke coming out of it's head, she faints.  He carries her to his tower and the games begin where he keeps his identity a secret as he tries exact his revenge and uncover the traitor that caused his family to be destroyed by the English.  As he soon becomes more and more intrigued by her, keeping his secret and his hands off of her becomes much more problematic. As the story unfolds, Gwen does discover his real identity and he discovers that in order to exact the revenge he's spent his life planning, he just might become the `beast' that people think resides in the castle.<br />The revenge aspect aside, the romance I felt was humorous but on the tepid side until the end when he really did become a bit of a beast - but in the end, love still reigns supreme! The romance between Tupper and Kitty, to me was simply hilarious.  I certainly did enjoy this, the first book that I have read by this author. I like her style, which is compelling and does have you feeling along with her characters and I can honestly recommend this book for the joy of pure entertainment.tertainment.	2003-10-09
951458:US	45284807	R2TAA4LJXV9Q92	0821773836	212350034	AN Undeniable Rogue: The Rogue's Club (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	You'll be Oohing and Ahhing Throughout!	Gideon St. Goddard, Duke of Stanthorpe having survived the war against Napoleon had come home to his own personal Waterloo.  A dying comrade in arms on the battlefield had extracted from Gideon a promise to return home and marry his sister and save her from being tossed out onto the streets.  Gideon could not refuse a dying man's last request, so here he was, ready to bite the bullet, no matter how homely the girl must be! But what he did NOT expect, was to find the most beautiful woman he had ever beheld, throwing flour in his face, and in such an advanced stage of pregnancy.  Nor was he prepared to realize that his house had been turned into a home for the homeless!  And, more surprising than ever, did this rogue ever think that he might actually enjoy being there and married!<br />Throughout this story, the readers will find themselves totally charmed with the romance as Sabrina slowly begins to trust, and Gideon realizes how deeply he has fallen in love with Sabrina.  And, if this sterling romantic love story is not enough, the vividly superb cast of secondary characters, from the homeless misfits, to the children, and the miscellaneous pets will have you chuckling as well as emitting sighs of joy.  With mastery of the written word you will also be exposed  to a malevolent evil that will spark your imagination into turning the pages as fast as you can to solve the mystery of who is being watched, why and what will happen to spoil what has so soon become a loving family.<br />This book is undeniably splendid! An absolute total read that is charming, suspenseful and thoroughly entertaining and an author I most definitely plan to add to my `must buy' list!  Lovers of this regency historic romance genre should make all haste to locate a copy of this out of print and hard to find novel, which I can and do most heartily recommend!	2003-10-05
951729:US	45284807	R2EOIDJJAF1EHS	0821773844	692930895	AN Unforgettable Rogue (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Totally Satisfying Read	Alexandra &quot;Alex&quot; Huntington had loved Bryceson \\"Hawk\\" Wakefield, the Fifth Duke of Hawksworth, since he had saved her from a muddy ravine when she was three and he was eight.  On that day he became her `knight in shining armor'. When he married her, for whatever his reasons, it was the happiest day of her life and the most devastating when he left immediately after the wedding to run off to war. Hearing later that he had been killed at Waterloo, she would carry on, in spite of the fact that it was to his sister-in-law that he sent his last letter. As his widow, she was left in charge of his aunt, and two nieces but no provisions had been stipulated in the event of his death, wrongfully assuming that all of the Hawksworth widows would be cared for in the event of his death. Unfortunately, upon his demise everything went to his cousin, Baxter, who promptly tossed Alexandra and his family out of their home.  A year and a day after his death, Alex made a pact to wed Judson Broderick, Viscount Chesterfield. The arrangement was made in return for a very large sum of money to pay debts. Moments before saying `I Do', Bryceson, limped down the aisle and stopped the wedding.<br />This then was where the horribly scarred Hawk finally decided to come back to life.  He  took one look at the beauty Alex had become and knew he had to stop her from marrying, of all people, his old nemesis, Chesterfield.  He vowed in his mind that it would only be until he could get an annulment before setting her free, not wanting to subject her to a life with the broken and disgusting looking man he felt he'd become.  Thinking that Alex would be repulsed by his appearance, he vowed he would keep his hands off of her, but what he never expected was that SHE would have the devil of a time keeping her hands off of him!  Alex didn't see a monster, she saw the man she thought of even as she walked down the aisle to marry another.  She'd always loved Hawk and after waiting all this time for her wedding night, she would do whatever was necessary to become his wife in truth!<br />In this second entry to the `Rouges' series, the author treats you to another wonderful story centered on a survivor, scarred physically and mentally, from the infamous battle of Waterloo.  She paints a vivid picture capturing the emotional baggage Hawk brings home as Alex does her best to prove that the beauty of a man is in his heart and gentle ways, not his countenance. In addition, the reader is introduced to new and old cast members that will amuse and infuriate you.  As the scenes unfold she will make this a story that you never want to see end yet it will leave you totally satisfied, even as you sob into your tissues or clear the lump in your throat that will form by the sheer talent of her prose.  For me, another total read that I can highly recommend.r wedding night, she would do whatever was necessary to become his wife in truth! <br />In this second entry to the `Rouges' series, the author treats you to another wonderful story centered on a survivor, scarred physically and mentally, from the infamous battle of Waterloo.  She paints a vivid picture capturing the emotional baggage Hawk brings home as Alex does her best to prove that the beauty of a man is in his heart and gentle ways, not his countenance. In addition, the reader is introduced to new and old cast members that will amuse and infuriate you.  As the scenes unfold she will make this a story that you never want to see end yet it will leave you totally satisfied, even as you sob into your tissues or clear the lump in your throat that will form by the sheer talent of her prose.   For me, another total read that I can highly recommend.	2003-10-05
953013:US	45284807	R27RFTC8MWUF1R	084395132X	633341057	The Falcon & the Dove	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Mystically Exciting	Setting - Egypt 1892  -  American Elizabeth Summers has always wanted to be accepted as an archaeologist. She travels to Egypt with two purposes in mind - one to meet with her Uncle on an archaeological dig and the other to find a cure for her sick grandmother.  Elizabeth had found an old papyrus that told of a special artifact, the Almha, that contained special writings for a cure. Unfortunately, being a woman, she would only be assigned the mundane tasks of cataloguing the findings.<br />Sheik Jabari and his desert warriors were honor bound to keep the Almha safe from infidels and routinely send warriors to the dig to monitor their activities.  During  a raid to frighten off the workers Jabari is first introduced to Elizabeth who has just arrived. Jabari overcome at seeing this  beautiful, blond, and brave woman among the diggers soon decides, that because he understands English better, he is best suited to discover what is going on. He goes undercover pretending to be a worker and also to discover just what it is about Elizabeth that attracts him.<br />With what appears to be a mystical connection to the long dead queen who originally hid the Almha, Elizabeth realizes where the artifact is hidden and attempts to unearth it.  Jabari, discovering her about to unearth the Almha, and rather than kill her on the spot, as tradition would dictate, abducts her so that the artifact remains hidden and brings her to his harem. Although, there exists a strong attraction between Elizabeth and Jabari to begin with, when he sees a dove shaped birthmark on her, he believes that she is the reincarnation of Queen Kiya, whom the ancient prophecy claims that one day she would return. He knows that for the good of his people he must marry her - but more than that - for himself as she's captured his heart.<br /><br />This is a fast-paced tale that hooks the reader from the first chapter when Jabari sees Elizabeth among the excavators. The story is fast-paced and loaded with action and stimulating dialog, and a plethora of interesting and colorful secondary characters.  The love developed between the lead protaganists is wonderfully and sensually done and the mystical reincarnation aspect is a unique touch that simply adds more enjoyment to this wonderful love story as East meets West. Tension and suspense leading up to the conclusion in the final chapters will leave you fully satisfied with this fabulous read and leave you yearning for more and looking forward to the next tale in this series.imulating dialog, and a plethora of interesting and colorful secondary characters.  The love developed between the lead protaganists is wonderfully and sensually done and the mystical reincarnation aspect is a unique touch that simply adds more enjoyment to this wonderful love story as East meets West. Tension and suspense leading up to the conclusion in the final chapters will leave you fully satisfied with this fabulous read and leave you yearning for more and looking forward to the next tale in this series.	2003-10-04
957258:US	45284807	R3R1E7BSCH02FB	0843952415	860627157	Yankee Earl	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Countess and the Yankee Earl - Pure Delight	Jason Beaumont, an American heir to his grandfather, the Marquess of Carlyle, was now the Earl of Falconridge.  Dubbed by the ton as the `Yankee Earl'.  Rachel Fairchild was none too pleased that this had occurred as her beloved estate of Harleigh adjoined Falconridge.  Rachel, tall, dark-haired, eldest daughter of Viscount Harleigh was something of an ape-leader. She'd rather be working in the stables or getting her hands dirty working the soil than attending a ball, batting her eyelashes or flirting with any of the ton's eligible males.  Quite outspoken, she'd chased off every suitor who had the temerity to ask for her hand.  Rachel definitely had other plans for her life, which did not include a husband who would take away her independence.<br />Rachel met Jason by accident. Riding hard to avoid being shot he ran into Rachel and knocked her into the mud. When he finally got a good look at the person he'd knocked down -  dressed in britches, with mud on her face,  Jason mistook her for a `country wench'.  Rachel was not impressed with him either as his arrogance, bold looks and manner did not endear him to her. However, the real surprise would come when between her father and Jason's grandfather, they would find themselves the main attraction of  their `surprise' betrothal ball!  Furious at having the choice of his bride taken from him, Jason had no intention of getting married.  Rachel was none too pleased either over hearing the news and dumped her glass of champagne on Jason's head!  Trying to make the most of a bad situation, Rachel, not wanting to give up her independence or the running of her estate, joined with Jason in plans to thwart both the patriarchs and help Jason and his brother escape England and return to America. But, before that happened the antagonistic sparring began to turn into `foreplay'-- for both of them!<br />I truly enjoyed the verbal sparring and double entendres the two protagonists had in the dialog of this book.  This battle of the sexes between Rachel and Jason while often used as a vehicle in many romance books was extremely enjoyable here.  Jason's arrogance was a perfect foil for Rachel's cutting wit.  I loved her independence at taking care of herself, what with her hounds as bodyguards, the stiletto she kept in her boot, or the brace of guns she carried tucked into her waistband.  Not your typical countess but totally unique - I loved her! The mystery of who was trying to 'off' the Earl was a bit of a twist but clues were there. Obviously, the plot has been used before but the sparkling dialog and double entendres made the story original and speed along and hard to put down. Very Enjoyable.e sexes between Rachel and Jason while often used as a vehicle in many romance books was extremely enjoyable here.  Jason's arrogance was a perfect foil for Rachel's cutting wit.  I loved her independence at taking care of herself, what with her hounds as bodyguards, the stiletto she kept in her boot, or the brace of guns she carried tucked into her waistband.  Not your typical countess but totally unique - I loved her! The mystery of who was trying to 'off' the Earl was a bit of a twist but clues were there. Obviously, the plot has been used before but the sparkling dialog and double entendres made the story original and speed along and hard to put down. Very Enjoyable.	2003-09-30
957504:US	45284807	R2R63O0SGS8J2P	0821774689	280036777	An Unmistakable Rogue	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It Will Touch Your Heart	1817  The Cotswald, England - Chastity Somers had grown up in a convent having never known any demonstrative affection or love. When the opportunity arose, she seized the chance to leave the convent and married the kindly doctor who administered to the nuns. She was accompanying him to England to his aunts and to claim Williams inheritance as the long-lost Earl of Barrington.  Unfortunately, on the voyage home she became a widow then traveled to Williams aunt home to find she had also died leaving four orphans to be cared for.  Chasity needed to give love as much as to receive it and embraced these children as her own though the powers to be deemed that they should be sent to an orphanage  snatching even that bit of short-lived happiness from her. In her attempts to steal them from the orphanage, she would accidentally meet Reed.<br />Reed Gilbride, Waterloo hero and unmistakable rogue that he was, grew up the oldest in a household with twelve other children and reminded daily, that he was there on sufferance and did not belong to them  consequently he grew up unloved and leery of forming any attachments.  He may have helped Chastity, only because she happened to land on him as she fell off a roof but that was all  he would help her to find her way and then hed get down to his business  to claim HIS inheritance as the long-lost Earl of St. Ives.  However, to his dismay, in order to prove his claim, Reed would be forced to work hand in hand with Chastity  and her band of brigands  to search the house for proof of her claim.  Chastity had convinced the executor to let her start a home for children on the estate if Reeds claim could not be proven.  Reed had three months to find the proof he needed, otherwise the earldom would be extinct and the estate would be turned over to Sister Chastity.  As both Reed and Chastity fought their growing attraction to one another, an old evil came back to finish the job of annihilating the St. Ives line.<br />This was such an amazingly touching love story, made all the more so by the most beautiful and sweet portrayals of the band of brigands, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Becka.  The children will touch your hearts just as they accomplished melting the block of ice that had formed around Reeds.  The author used Becka, the little three-year-old girl, brilliantly and she will have you both laughing and sobbing at times.  The madness of the villain in the story will also have you chewing your fingernails as the danger grows in proportion to the budding love story.  This was an outstanding story and the writing and plot were terrific.  I highly recommend this book and will be looking to find the first two books of this rogue series by this author.he St. Ives line.<br />This was such an amazingly touching love story, made all the more so by the most beautiful and sweet portrayals of the band of brigands, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Becka.  The children will touch your hearts just as they accomplished melting the block of ice that had formed around Reeds.  The author used Becka, the little three-year-old girl, brilliantly and she will have you both laughing and sobbing at times.  The madness of the villain in the story will also have you chewing your fingernails as the danger grows in proportion to the budding love story.  This was an outstanding story and the writing and plot were terrific.  I highly recommend this book and will be looking to find the first two books of this rogue series by this author.	2003-09-30
958345:US	45284807	R3NXJFY0HJOLWY	0515135453	384717132	Twist of Fate	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Makes a Statement	Val Covington, is a corporate lawyer in one of the more prestigious law firms in the city of Baltimore, Maryland.  Working the fast track and establishing herself as one of the hottest lawyers in the firm she'd finally been offered a partnership but disenchantment with the corporate type of law she was practicing was leading her to explore other options.  Val wants to step back from the boardrooms and do more pro bono work.  When a close friend points her in the direction of available office space in a restored church, the seeds that had been planted for some time of going into private practice blossom.  Not only is the space ideal but there is a bonus of a handsome, rugged looking landlord who looks like just the type of guy she's attracted to.<br />Rob Smith, landlord, ex-marine, and many other hidden talents turns out to have investigative experience so that their paths become entwined both romantically and professionally, but the road to romance is filled with many pitfalls and a lot of baggage that make the romance quite secondary.<br />Offering her paralegal assistant the opportunity to come and work with, and for her Kendra Brooks agrees on the condition that Val would represent her former lover and the father of her child, sitting on death row.  This being a last ditch effort to save him from execution, Kendra swears that Daniel Monroe was unjustly tried and convicted for a murder that he didn't commit.  She should know,  because at the time it was committed, he was with her.<br />While Ms. Putney's previous novels held me enthralled with adventure and romance, I felt that her purpose with this was more towards taking a stand against capital punishment than providing a romantic novel.  While there was a romance going on, based primarily in Rob's mind - it took longer for it to click in Val's.  I found there to be more emotional feeling in some of the secondary characterizations than in the lead couple.  It is definitely a compelling read that gives the reader something to think about as to where they would stand on capital punishment, but as far as putting you in the mood for romance, it falls short for the love and passion that I've generally attributed to Ms. Putney's former books.  Would I recommend it?  Yes, it is a very good, compelling, and thought provoking read, but if you are looking for truly romantic love story, go and find any of her `Fallen Angel series'.ader something to think about as to where they would stand on capital punishment, but as far as putting you in the mood for romance, it falls short for the love and passion that I've generally attributed to Ms. Putney's former books.  Would I recommend it?  Yes, it is a very good, compelling, and thought provoking read, but if you are looking for truly romantic love story, go and find any of her `Fallen Angel series'.	2003-09-29
962617:US	45284807	R2VBPMSROM2MTC	0425192024	599649259	A Garden in the Rain (Macleod Family)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Time Travel and Ghosties Too!	Madelyn Phillips was pretty much a walking disaster.  She had been engaged then dumped by her fianc&eacute;, Bentley Douglas Taylor III, a couple of weeks before the wedding; this same fianc&eacute; who then arranged, quite vindictively, to have her fired from her job.  With not much else left other than a mountain of debt from student loans and canceled un-refundable wedding deposits, she managed to keep her pre-paid ticket and reservations for her life-long dreamed for, and planned honeymoon tour of Scotland.  Unfortunately, her totally obnoxious ex-fiance, has a change of heart (did I say change of heart - he had no heart) but was determined to win her back through whatever devious means he could - such as, canceling her credit cards, reservations, stealing her luggage, passport, etc. in effect, trying his best to leave her no alternative other than to crawl back to him for aid.<br />Patrick MacLeod, was haunted by a past he couldn't have controlled yet blamed himself for.  After the death of his wife and child, he wanted no part of love ever again and was not ready to run to the aid of the Yank who couldn't drive and had tangled herself up with such an obnoxious character like Bentley.  Unfortunately, the past would rear it's head back again and he felt the connection that would find himself inexplicably pulled in to come to Madelyn's aid.  He would be uneasy in discovering the measure of peace and hope just being in her presence would bring.  There was just something that emanated from this woman that set him into wanting to hope but would he have the courage to open his heart again, and possibly risk her life to the vengeance his ex-father-in-law was intent on delivering?<br />I've read all of Kurland's books and she does write a splendid tale as she continues the saga of the MacLeod clan.  While it is always a treat to re-visit other members from the previous tales of the MacLeod clan, it is even more fun to discover new ones!  The stories are always great entertainment and yet I sensed a bit of a change here in the romance aspect. If you are looking for the lusty, squirm in your seat seductions in the previous books, you will not find it here. There are virtually no big seductions, or sexual encounters between the two central protagonists.  Rather, we are treated to two adults getting to know one another as Patrick initially plays the good samaritan. While both feel the power of their attraction to each other, neither acts on it.  I also had trouble with Patrick's laid back attitude and almost passive way he had in his treatment of the obnoxious Bentley Douglas Taylor III. Knowing that he was a transplanted medieval highlander, it just didn't seem in character that he would be so passive in allowing Bentley to continue his torment of Madelyn.  In spite of the non-sexual content, the paranormal aspects are fabulous and I truly did enjoy this latest addition to the MacLeod saga.and yet I sensed a bit of a change here in the romance aspect. If you are looking for the lusty, squirm in your seat seductions in the previous books, you will not find it here. There are virtually no big seductions, or sexual encounters between the two central protagonists.  Rather, we are treated to two adults getting to know one another as Patrick initially plays the good samaritan. While both feel the power of their attraction to each other, neither acts on it.   I also had trouble with Patrick's laid back attitude and almost passive way he had in his treatment of the obnoxious Bentley Douglas Taylor III. Knowing that he was a transplanted medieval highlander, it just didn't seem in character that he would be so passive in allowing Bentley to continue his torment of Madelyn.   In spite of the non-sexual content, the paranormal aspects are fabulous and I truly did enjoy this latest addition to the MacLeod saga.	2003-09-26
964212:US	45284807	RICTJPRFXRIUF	006050563X	630357889	Once a Scoundrel (Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Truly Enjoyable - Take some Notes!	Mr. Anthony Morehouse had been celebrating the ultimate win of a magnificent pair of matched gray high stepping horses, probably drinking a bit too much yet still on a winning streak.  He had, in his inebriated state, just won  what he thought was a piece of furniture, `The Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet' only to find that it was not a piece of furniture but a woman's magazine.  Thinking to rid himself of the magazine Anthony set out to visit the `spinsterish' niece of the man he'd won it from only to find the most incredibly beautiful woman sitting behind the editors desk that he had ever seen!<br />Not only did he discover that this beauty was his childhood nemesis, Edwina Parrish,  but she still possessed the one thing she'd won from him over 20 years ago that had caused a giant rift between he and his father - a priceless roman head.  Now, with the precious magazine that was for Edwina, a labor of love, they would agree to a wager that could finally, win him back the priceless artifact.  Edwina had almost always been the winner of all their former bets, only this time Anthony knew he could win. What Anthony soon came to realize though, was that what he most wanted to win, was Edwina's heart!<br />This was for me a totally delightful story, filled with intelligent dialog, wit, and charm.  The two protagonists seemed to pick up where they'd left off from years before with most things between them amounting to a wager.  As many more wagers are made throughout the story Anthony plans his seduction.  One of the most sensuous and amusing scenes I have come across in some time was the result of Anthony's taunt to Edwina that she didn't have any idea on how to `please a man'.  My, oh my, oh my!  I took notes on that one!  The reader will find much to enjoy in this book including an amusing and colorful blend of secondary characters adding wit and wisdom to the storyline.  This was just a totally satisfying read - one I sincerely hope you get a chance to read for yourself.	2003-09-24
967419:US	45284807	REENCSCBTM37S	0060503548	524136782	All Men Are Rogues	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Heroine Puts the Rogue in His Place!	Setting - England 1813 - The very lovely Miss Evelyn Amherst mourning her father had come home to England to carry out his last dying wish.  Although, she had hated the conspiracies and the intrigues of the life he lived, she loved and was proud of his commitment and loyalty to his country. As he lay dying in her arms he made her promise to return to England to collect her inheritance then leave as quickly as possible for her safety's sake.  Having not set foot on English soil for nearly 12 years she really did not know anyone.  Lord Justin Barclay was a distant relative many times removed and had  arranged for her to stay at his Aunt's home.  Justin was handsome enough to turn any ladies head but Evelyn was determined it wouldn't be hers and difficult as it would be, she would try to learn the truth surrounding her father's death.<br />Lord Justin Barclay, handsome and titled, was not all as he appeared. He'd been working undercover as a spy for some years now and because of family connections he was selected to ferret out the secrets of Evelyn's father's last assignment. As beautiful as Evelyn turned out to be he looked forward to spending time with his very lovely new assignment.  What he was not expecting was to be so enchanted that rather than looking to entrap her and prove her of treasonous activities, he would be more apt to prove her innocence.<br />This was my first book by this author and I was totally immersed in the romance and mind twisting intrigue almost from the very first pages.  This was a difficult book to lay aside both from a sensual and mystery standpoint.  Just when you would think that circumstances between the two protagonists were settling into a set pattern for the usual historical romance scenario, another betrayal event would set you off down another road of twists and turns keeping the intrigue level high! And if the intrigue doesn't keep your interest piqued the sensual by-play certainly should! Sprinkled throughout you are introduced to some very strong and vivid secondary characters as well that I certainly hope to see expanded upon for sequels. I'd love to see what happens to Angel Arolas when cupid finally targets him! However, one of the aspects that I truly enjoyed in this story was to see such a strong caring heroine, turn what appeared as a strong and self assured gentleman into a `real' man who ended up taking charge of his life to suit what was best for him!  This was an extremely satisfying read and one that I highly recommend.ed to some very strong and vivid secondary characters as well that I certainly hope to see expanded upon for sequels. I'd love to see what happens to Angel Arolas when cupid finally targets him! However, one of the aspects that I truly enjoyed in this story was to see such a strong caring heroine, turn what appeared as a strong and self assured gentleman into a `real' man who ended up taking charge of his life to suit what was best for him!  This was an extremely satisfying read and one that I highly recommend.	2003-09-22
978253:US	45284807	RZRM5OPKXCQL6	159080158X	140247235	Tides of Autumn	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wonderful Vacation Read	Darci Cunningham is still trying to adjust to the loss of her husband of twenty-two years.  Darci is grieving for the love of a man who had completed her life and is now trying to start a new life and a fresh start to fulfill a dream of becoming a published author.  Her choice to come and live on Mackinac Island was also part of the dream that she had shared with her husband Matt - having discovered the island's charm on their honeymoon so many years before.  With grown children in college, she was alone but for the presence of her delightful cousin Maevey, renowned matchmaker of Mackinac island.<br />Tyler Landston, 39-year-old bachelor and jet setting photographer was assigned by his publishers a project to come and photograph the island for a big pictorial coffee table book.  Handsome and successful, he was used to being pursued but after a brief but delightful conversation and then a good look he knew he wanted to be the pursuer!  With a little help from Maevey the matchmaker and a couple of fateful accidents Tyler and Darci would soon become better acquainted.  As the attraction and passion builds for both, trouble and danger in the form of an old family friend threatens to derail their budding romance.<br /> The plot was enjoyable along with a marvelous location. It was filled with passionate and emotional feelings the author injects into this most excellent read.  You felt Darci's grief over the loss of what she had considered her `life mate' as the author depicted that twenty-year-old marriage as solid, protective and loving.  Fortunate to have experienced such a loving marriage, Darci's guilt over feeling such a strong and sensual attraction to Tyler was skillfully written, as was the hinted `other side' of the trusted family friend.  This was a very enjoyable read in a setting brought to life so skillfully that I predict will have most readers checking their travel agencies excursions in order to experience an island setting themselves and maybe, just possibly, find their own special someone in this very romantic setting.ssibly, find their own special someone in this very romantic setting.	2003-09-12
978320:US	45284807	RXSSBAKGUABYR	0451208293	330989568	Impostress (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4-1/2*  Engaging 13th Century Medieval Romance	Setting - North Wales 1286<br />Three years earlier, one of the very independent daughters of the Baron of Lawenydd, Kiera, slipped out to steal a ride on her father's prize stallion, along the way she was thrown, the stallion ran away, and she was attacked and almost raped.  Her sister Elyn came upon the attack and saved Kiera's life and from that moment on Kiera vowed to do ANYTHING for Elyn that she asked to repay the debt.  Never, in her wildest imaginings would Kiera have thought that she would have to pretend and marry Elyn's betrothed, Lord Kelan of Penbrooke!<br />The plan just might have worked if Elyn hadn't lied from the very beginning about returning when she in all honesty was buying time to run away with the man she was in love with.  Kiera found herself not only with a man who stirred her innermost feelings, but who just wasn't responding to the sleeping potion that should have put him into a drugged sleep on their wedding night!  As Kiera tries to evade the wedding night ritual, she finds she is unable to resist Kelan's drugging kisses, and sweet caresses and her desire for him was her undoing.  Wracked with guilt over the deception to Kelan, her sister's husband, and the man she was definitely beginning to love her anxieties were overwhelming - so much so that Kelan recognized that something was not quite right with his bride.<br />THE IMPOSTRESS was an extremely entertaining historical romance with a wonderful plot that had me quickly turning the pages and holding my breath, waiting for the truth to be revealed.  The author really had me feeling all the anxiety that was Kiera's, who I found to be a very likeable, loyal and honorable heroine.  I pictured myself in the difficult position of honoring a vow made to a person that had saved my life, knowing how despicable a thing it was that I had to do, and then falling in love with the man who would be your brother-in-law!  While I thought the ending came about very quickly, the cast of secondary characters was well thought out supporting the plot and I am looking forward to the next two proposed novels featuring Kelan's sister Morwenna, his brother Tadd, and maybe even Kiera's youngest sister Penelope.  Fans of this medieval thirteenth century romance genre are surely in for a treat as this engaging story continues!ters was well thought out supporting the plot and I am looking forward to the next two proposed novels featuring Kelan's sister Morwenna, his brother Tadd, and maybe even Kiera's youngest sister Penelope.  Fans of this medieval thirteenth century romance genre are surely in for a treat as this engaging story continues!	2003-09-12
983234:US	45284807	RV9AHKILYUY4L	0843952148	273702212	Dark of the Moon	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Deliciously sexy page turner	DARK OF THE MOON is the fourth book of the Half-Moon Ranch series. It is a full length Texas historical of the last and youngest of the Hunter children, Matthew -- the wildest, the youngest and also the most troubled.  It begins with Matthew coming home with a champion race horse with killer instincts, he bought in England.  He feels that if he can curb the killer instinct, this horse, Dark Champion,  can save the siblings ranch.  When Matt returns home he finds that his father Jack has been released from a 10-year prison sentence for killing the children's beloved mother. Also coming home is the widow, Juliana Rains.  She left home at the age of eight to be brought up by her grandparents when her mother re-married a man who didn't want her around. She has come home when the last letter from her deceased mother didn't jive with the communication she had received from her step-father reporting her mothers brief(?) illness and death.<br />Hearing a stallion, assaulting the precious blood mare that Juliana brought back with her to Texas, Juliana does her best to shoo him away but Dark Champion turns her precious `pet' mare into a harlot - or so she thought.  Matt, chasing after his stallion and coming upon the scene was actually quite pleased.  First that his horse could prove himself  a stud and also that he recognized and remembered Juliana.  On the other hand, Juliana remembered Matt quite well ---- as the wild, gangly troublemaker from her youth but secretly admired the way he'd filled out over the years.  The sparks and the attraction began from that moment but subsequent events would have their paths crossing again and again as accidents began to plague the ranch and they both came to face their troubled pasts to realize that there was a common villain in their lives.<br />This was a fast-page turner with plenty of action, good and vivid descriptive detail, snappy dialog, and a very good supporting cast of secondary characters.  I particularly loved the male housekeeper!  The sexual encounters were written so vividly that I even enjoyed the horse breeding!  This was hot and deliciously done with the right amount of action to keep you up all night long!usekeeper!  The sexual encounters were written so vividly that I even enjoyed the horse breeding!  This was hot and deliciously done with the right amount of action to keep you up all night long!	2003-09-08
983578:US	45284807	R1DBC684F4ZWG6	0380821060	71506803	To Love a Scottish Lord: Book Four of the Highland Lords	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Pure Enjoyment	Setting - Scotland 1782 - Hamish MacRae has come home to Scotland, a beaten and drastically changed man.  He is being escorted by his younger brother Brenden.  Hamish had lost his ship, his crew, the use of his arm and endured unspeakable humiliations and torture and planned to make the desolate abandoned castle, Castle Gloom, into his private hermitage.  Worried over his brothers' state of mind, Brenden travels to Inverness to enlist the aid of a highly recommended healer.<br />Mary Gilly, was a young widow whose late husband had ties to the elder MacRae's brother Alisdair.  Mary, much younger than her deceased husband, had been allowed and encouraged to pursue studies of healing and her successes had earned her a nickname as the `Angel of Inverness'.  Having never left the confines of Inverness, not only did Hamish's case sound intriguing but the chance to travel seemed like an adventure after her year long mourning period had passed.<br />Hamish would not be an ideal patient and the fact that Brenden brought him a beautiful woman seemed like more torture to a man who hadn't had a woman in so long. Several days later and refusing to leave, Mary was not only intrigued by the case but attracted as well to the man hidden in his tower.  After agreeing to a challenge to either best him at chess or leave without treating him, Hamish finds he is more than intrigued himself with this independent and forthright woman.<br />WOW! This is just what I come to expect from this exceptional author - a plot that grabs you from the first page with intensity and emotion that you start and finish in one sitting. Hamish's injuries set him apart from the normal heroes one usually finds, and Mary is an absolute delight whose own secrets add to the suspense of this highly sensual and incredible addition to the Highland Lord series!  The romance that develops between Brenden and Mary's best friend Elspeth is an added treat.  Up to this point - Book One had been my favorite, but this one is right up there in the running for top spot in this series!  Outstanding sensual imagery and writing! In case, you're wondering, YES, this can definitely stand alone but when you have writing this superb, get acquainted with the whole MacRae clan - the journey is well worth it!one is right up there in the running for top spot in this series!  Outstanding sensual imagery and writing! In case, you're wondering, YES, this can definitely stand alone but when you have writing this superb, get acquainted with the whole MacRae clan - the journey is well worth it!	2003-09-08
991347:US	45284807	R1CUV91VLUPLFT	0446612677	574387051	Reiver's Bride (Secret Clan)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Romance and Magic in the Highlands - 4-1/2*	Setting  Ellyson Towers, Scottish Border 1541 - Lady Anne Ellyson has suffered numerable losses of her family. Now alone she has been sent to live with her aunt Olivia and beautiful cousin Fiona.  Coming to care deeply for her beautiful cousin she feels helpless to extricate Friona from an arranged marriage Fionas mother is forcing upon her to an odious older man, Sir Eustace Chisholm, Earl of Ashkirk.  Feeling helpless to save Fiona from the hateful Earl, Anne rides out alone to de-stress herself and is set upon by a band of reivers.  Anne discovers that the leader of this band of miscreants is none other than Sir Christopher Kit Chisholm (introduced in the prequel (Secret Clan: Highland Bride).  Prior to being declared dead, Kit was betrothed to Fiona by proxy though he had never met her or agreed to the betrothal.<br />Returning from the dead and testing the waters, Kit posed as a reiver to discover if his Uncle Eustace was involved in the trumped up murder charge that had Kit serving a life sentence aboard a prison ship.  Discovering Lady Anne, alone and with no escort, forced him to discard his reiver persona and admit to his true identity. Lady Anne, although attracted to him herself, saw Kit as the answer to her dear cousin Fionas dilemma.  Anne had to convince Kit to step forward, own up to being the true Earl of Ashkirk, and stop the wedding of Fiona to his hateful uncle.  This would definitely solve Fionas problem, but as Annes feelings towards Kit intensified and Kits passion for Anne accelerates this would not be the ideal solution. Outside forces in the form of the elusive wee folk and their many intrigues could and would set most plans awry!<br />Having read the prequel HIGHLAND BRIDE, in the Secret Clan series I was delighted to revisit the Highlands for this engaging tale of intrigues set during a historical era I find appealing as well as giving Kit Chisholm a chance to tell his story and find romance.  The reader picking this book up will find that it stacks up well as a stand alone but will find much more enjoyment by starting with the first of the series as there are numerous characters, both real and magical, who visit in and out of the story.  While the human's have their turmoils, the wee folk that interfere and are supposed to watch over their human charges have just as many problems. The reader will certainly enjoy the antics of the fierce little Maggie Murdoch, her son Brown Claud, his girlfriend Catriona, Fergus Fishbait and all rest who make reading these stories a magical and fun experience.  Fans who like a little magic in their tales will take much pleasure in and have fun returning to the magic of the highlands time and again.  The series is romantic, fun, and one that I highly recommend.r picking this book up will find that it stacks up well as a stand alone but will find much more enjoyment by starting with the first of the series as there are numerous characters, both real and magical, who visit in and out of the story.  While the human's have their turmoils, the wee folk that interfere and are supposed to watch over their human charges have just as many problems. The reader will certainly enjoy the antics of the fierce little Maggie Murdoch, her son Brown Claud, his girlfriend Catriona, Fergus Fishbait and all rest who make reading these stories a magical and fun experience.  Fans who like a little magic in their tales will take much pleasure in and have fun returning to the magic of the highlands time and again.  The series is romantic, fun, and one that I highly recommend.	2003-09-02
993293:US	45284807	R39MOI6VIJ50R8	0758204434	399804889	Almost A Gentleman	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Very sensual writing and artfully poetic	WOW!  When I read reviews and see such opposing viewpoints on a book I often find myself intrigued and want to see for myself what could cause such opposing viewpoints and after reading the book myself, I tend to think that the negative reviews were from people who either did not read the entire story or just `didn't get it'!<br />After four years as a `trophy' wife Phoebe, Lady Claringworth, had by way of a carriage accident caused by her hateful husband, been released from a marriage of misery and degradation - but at a terribly high price that also cost her the life of her son and unborn daughter.  Finding herself widowed and emerging from injuries her way of life would be forever changed.  With the help of a dear friend, she lay to rest Lady Claringworth and reemerged disguised as a young man, Philip \\"Phizz\\" Marston.  Phizz would be the impeccable dandy who would over the next three years reign over the ton as the  new \\"Beau\\" Brummel - who would dictate fashions that would set the standard and whose censure could destroy a persons reputation.  Those early years would see her cold and unfeeling.  Then one day feelings Phoebe once thought were dead would reemerge in startling intensity when the Earl of Linseley, David Hervey, came to Almacks one evening.  The widowed Earl, thinking to find himself a new wife found, much to his chagrin, that the only person at Almacks that he was attracted to was a man - the beautiful androgynous Phizz Marston.  Days later, and not very successful erasing Phizz's image from his mind, David would overhear a plot against Phizz and make an appointment with him to warn him and offer his assistance.  Soon to his great relief David discovers that Phizz is, thankfully a woman and he must find a way to help her uncover the person behind the vile threats and drop her disguise to begin a new life with him.<br />For a debut novel I found this to be an outstanding as well as a sizzling and very erotic romantic love story. The plot which I originally thought might have been something on the comic side, I soon found to be thought provoking and original. I found the writing to be very graceful and appealing in it's sensuality. While quite hot, there is also a definite feeling of reverence and honor David felt for Phoebe that I found most appealing in this very unselfish love story!  Very sensual writing and artfully poetic - this is an author who bears watching!riginally thought might have been something on the comic side, I soon found to be thought provoking and original. I found the writing to be very graceful and appealing in it's sensuality. While quite hot, there is also a definite feeling of reverence and honor David felt for Phoebe that I found most appealing in this very unselfish love story!  Very sensual writing and artfully poetic - this is an author who bears watching!	2003-08-31
998880:US	45284807	R10Q0TKZ2O8GHF	006101141X	559825651	Homeplace	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Deeply Moving Story of Forgiveness	Micah \\"Mike\\" Winship was going home to a place she'd fled in 1963 when her father had thrown her out.  It's twenty years later, she's become an award-winning journalist, and has not spoken to her father in all that time. A plea from her sister, Dee Dee asking her to return and help with their father who was dying from prostate cancer and wanted to see her came at a point in Mike's life where she virtually had no other place to go. Mike's world was collapsing around her and she needed a place to go -  to re-group, and pull herself together, even if it meant facing the man whose love and acceptance she had tried to gain during her awful childhood.  What Mike finally discovers, after more betrayals, is the heart, soul and essence of the man she called `daddy' and a real place called `home'.<br />This was my first book by this author whose eloquence with the written word is so outstanding that she slips under the skin of the extremely well sketched characters and lets you breathe their air, and pump their blood.  You will laugh, cry, and feel each emotion as the author sketches the life of a memorable journey taken by the youngest daughter of coming home again.  Totally thought provoking and believable.  This is an outstanding classic novel that I see why it has been resurrected and reissued for a new generation of readers to embrace!	2003-08-26
1006107:US	45284807	R1PVAFE7TJLA42	1551666642	345655739	Kiss River	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Outer Banks Revisited	Having read the first book of this proposed trilogy - KEEPER OF THE LIGHT - which captured me from the very first pages, I was anxious to return to the locale of the Outer Banks to continue the story.  This story comes across in a much slower vein with a female lead, Gina,  in her thirties, divorced, with a mysterious diary that switches back and forth along in the chapters.  The diary turns out to be written 60 years earlier during WWII and it was written by a 14 year old girl who was the daughter of the lighthouse keeper. Throughout much of the story you have to figure out the mystery of why, Gina, is so intent on raising the Fresnal lens of the partially destroyed lighthouse from the sea, and what the connection is to a small child in India.<br />The son and daughter of the first book, Clay and Lacey, are the other leads and they each are dealing with issues.  Clay is now a widower of less than a year carrying baggage of guilt, etc. Lacey seems to be following in her mother's footsteps after learning `some' truths about her parentage.  Lacey seems to be  trying to perpetuate the Saint Anne persona that her mother had acquired yet her promiscuity keeps her at odds with her brother Clay.  Although the two siblings have their problems neither seems to be featured as prominently as Gina and the young girl, Bess from the 60 year old diary.<br /><br />There was very little romance in this book, but more a story of healing, trust, issues and the mystery of why it was so important to have the Fresnal lens resurrected from the sea.  This was a good story, a little slow for my taste, but again exquisite writing that gives you a good flavor for the marvelous setting of the Outer Banks of North Carolina.  Because, the author gave little attention Lacey's problem who by the end of the book was left with a whole new outlook on who her mother really `was' I would predict that she will give us this story in the last book of this trilogy in order to wrap things up.  While the book does stand up alone, you will get more enjoyment from it should you read the KEEPER OF THE LIGHT first.k does stand up alone, you will get more enjoyment from it should you read the KEEPER OF THE LIGHT first.	2003-08-19
1009021:US	45284807	R1O0YK4GS9IPFA	1551669595	979999779	Keeper of the Light	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Unparalleled Emotional Intensity	This was an amazing story that quite literally gave me a lump in my throat from the very beginning to the very end - and I am not even a fan of contemporary novels!  It starts with an emotional and intense opening as a woman is rushed into a small coastal emergency room suffering from a gunshot wound to the chest. It was Christmas Eve as Dr. Olivia Chase was waiting to end her shift and go home to her husband.  Sizing up the situation quickly, Olivia realized that there was only one possibility of saving the patient and that was to operate and try to stabilize her then rather than airlift her to a trauma center - travel time that the patient would never survive.  It would be later that Olivia would realize that her patient was Annie O'Neill, the woman whom her husband, Paul Macelli, was obsessed with.<br />From the very first pages the author establishes and introduces you to a woman dubbed in her community as Saint Anne -  paragon of virtue, kindness, and generosity of spirit.  Annie O'Neill's death changed the course of so many lives, that night; Annie's husband Alec; her two children, Clay and Lacey; Dr. Olivia and her husband Paul.  As they each become obsessed with the memory of this woman, they join together to save the lighthouse that she loved. As the months pass by, a complex triangle of passion, love, deceptions and lies begin to emerge into an explosive and emotional confrontation finally brought out into the open by the `keeper of the light'.<br />The descriptive emotional intensity of the writing by this author is totally awesome.  I sincerely hope that any who read this review accept my word that this is an author to put on your list as an automatic buy, and rush out to get a copy of this unparalleled read.	2003-08-17
1009699:US	45284807	R2RWFEJR92OYQI	0743453077	283306387	Loving the Highlander (Highlander Trilogy)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Great Addition to the Trilogy	Time travel - 1200 AD to present day - In the second installment of this time travel trilogy the MacKeage brothers, Greylen and Morgan, their friends and their nemesis, the MacBain's  were all in a battle when the wizard Daar, in an inept moment to transport Greylen, accidentally sent all of them hurtling 800 years into the future.  (Greylen's story, the elder of the two, was told in \\"Charming the Highlander\\".)<br />It is eight years later and Morgan, Morgan the younger brother is simply, biding his time, living in the backwoods close to nature and reluctant to let go of his past to join the `moderns' as has his brother.  Sunning himself, `au natural' Morgan's solitude is disturbed by Mercedes (Sadie) Quill who is both researching the area for a proposed wilderness park and searching for the lost dream of her father - the rumored gold mine of a legendary hermit.  Sadie, discovering Morgan, couldn't resist taking photos of and enjoying the magnificent view this `Adonis' provided her. Morgan catches her, destroys her film and hopes to scare her sufficiently to leave the area and it's secrets intact.  Morgan's concerns were real, should the unnatural `rain forest' appearance of the gorge be discovered. (The gorge exhibited unbelievable traits after Greylen, so furious with Daar tossed the wizard's magical staff into the deepest depths of a Maine pond.).  The threat of danger to the pristine condition of  his land would be endangered as well as the `highlanders' lives should they be discovered. What Morgan did not realize was that the bigger threat though would be to his state of mind once he'd tasted the lips of Sadie Quill, the graineag, he dubbed her as her stubborn and prickly nature became quite evident.<br />I thought this was a really superb offering for the second book in this unique trilogy of forward time travel and the problems inherent in the adaptation of time.  The romance was nicely done, in that both the heroine and hero had many obstacles to overcome. Sadie, had both physical and emotional problems stemming from the blame she assumed for her father and sister's deaths.  Morgan, the confirmed bachelor, had to accept the fact that life without Sadie was nowhere near as complete as loving her had become.  I found the writing to be beautifully balanced with just enough passion, magic, and wonderful secondary characters  -  a  truly delightful and fun read.Sadie, had both physical and emotional problems stemming from the blame she assumed for her father and sister's deaths.  Morgan, the confirmed bachelor, had to accept the fact that life without Sadie was nowhere near as complete as loving her had become.  I found the writing to be beautifully balanced with just enough passion, magic, and wonderful secondary characters  -  a  truly delightful and fun read.	2003-08-16
1013958:US	45284807	R2TYUY4DFFC0VP	0843951435	735192480	Noble Destiny	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Three and 1/2 * Rating	Four years prior to this story, Lady Charlotte Collins, impulsively eloped with an Italian count.  She scandalized the ton, and her family and now as a poor widow, she is attempting to return to society and take her rightful place once again.  She had hoped that after four years, the ton would have forgot her scandal and open their arms to receive her - but not even her family was ready to do that!<br />Her only entry back into society would be to marry a title so that the ton would have to accept her.  Enter Alasdair \\"Dare\\" McGregor, Earl of Carlisle a handsome suitor she remembered from years back and still single.  Charlotte sets her sights, on Dare who inherited a bankrupt title and estates that were a constant money drain.  Dare has no intentions of getting married and  he knows he has to  `economize' to keep the bill collectors at bay until he can complete the design of a marine engine and sell it to investors to refill the empty coffers.  The problem was Charlotte, who is depicted as one of the most shallow, and the most irritating heroines one could ever imagine, who didn't know that Dare had so few funds! She only assumed that all Earls had money! She maneuvered him into a compromising position whereby he had to publicly offer for her.<br />Unfortunately, Charlotte is so irritating that it was a struggle to get to the point that she does finally redeem herself and start thinking of someone other than herself.  I found some of her antics and her conversations to be totally absurd.  The author has the heroine speaking words and phrases totally out of context, to portray her as a featherbrain which would have been okay if I were in a silly mood, and she were a secondary character!  Unfortunately, as a lead, Charlotte didn't appeal to me until about the last 80 or so pages before she actually realized she was in love with Dare, and not just using him for her own selfish purposes. It was an amusing story with a lot of slapstick humor and I can see it appealing to some, but an intelligent and emotional romance it is not!ing to some, but an intelligent and emotional romance it is not!	2003-08-12
1015924:US	45284807	R26NMTM4ZP3JP1	0446612669	735329735	Highland Bride (Secret Clan)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Engaging Scottish Romance	Barbara `Bab' McRae has been ordered home to the highlands by her brother Patrick and after the excitement of the Scottish court was not looking forward to the boredom that would face her there. Upon the way the party she is traveling with is ambushed and as the men engaged arms, she and the other ladies escaped running into a friendly face, or so she thought, until her would be protector turned into her abductor. About to be ravished, by the fiend none other than the man known as the Black Fox comes to her rescue - effectively saving her virtue and sending her along her way with a silver coin and a kiss that would haunt her dreams.<br />Due to unforeseen circumstances and the political climate she soon finds that she is to be married to the handsome, wealthy, but totally boring, and slightly foppish Sir Alexander Chisholm - unbeknownst to Bab the alter ego of - who else - the Black Fox. Alex plays a dangerous game, trying to help save the Highlander's way of life, yet falling helplessly in love with the lovely Bab McRae. And Bab - she will go along with the marriage to Alex - while secretly yearning for the Fox - such a dilemma! But then you had all these wee folk jumbled into this mix with some trying to help things along and some trying to hinder?<br />As this was my first Amanda Scott novel - I was at first very confused trying to follow the beginning of the story - actually three different plots going on here and consequently why this is not being given the highest of ratings. While it was a very good story, I fully believe that were I reading this after having read the prequels of the Secret Clan series I might have truly enjoyed it more. The two main characters of Alex and Bab were very interesting and very well developed and their dialogs witty and fun, although I was immediately making comparisons to the Zorro type plot. The `wee folk' were very amusing and engaging. All in all this was a very good read, but as a matter of personal preference, I would have liked to have read the prequels first to have better enjoyed this and gained a better sense of family.e liked to have read the prequels first to have better enjoyed this and gained a better sense of family.	2003-08-11
1022844:US	45284807	RDTPZMS7MEP10	0380816520	618453563	Too Wicked to Marry (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Totally Absorbing Read	Setting - Great Britain 1880 - Lord Martin Kestrel, a diplomat is suffering from boredom at a house party in which the happily and newly married host has brought together many of the seasons most eligible young misses in an attempt to tempt the more than eligible, handsome and debonair widower to join him in wedded bliss.  After several attempts by the young ladies to attract his regard he realizes what is missing in his life and making him so lonely amongst a houseful of people.  He misses Abigail - furthermore - if he must marry, why not the woman who has become his best friend and confidante over the last four years, the strait laced and lovely governess to his daughter, Miss Abigail Perry.  He leaves the party abruptly to find and propose to this no nonsense paragon of virtue who will make him a splendid wife!<br />The problem is Miss Abigail Perry is not at all what she seems.  Abigail, aka Harriet MacLeod, is actually a spy assigned to watching over the Queen's highly regarded diplomat.  Originally posing as a governess, the truth of the matter is that Harriet truly came to love Martin's daughter Patricia. She has cushioned herself for years, looking the other way as Martin worked through his many mistresses, being a friend and confidante, recognizing that he needed to heal as he worked to dismiss the heartbreak of the wife who abandoned him and their daughter years before. Secretly loving him, she was floored by Martin's sudden declaration of love and marriage!  She knew that discovering that she had deceived him all these years would be another act of betrayal and she took the only way out she could.  She ran away to the Isle of Skye and her very unique family to lick her wounds.<br />Still clueless as to why she would run from him, Martin, through a letter that arrived addressed to Abigail, got his first clue to tracking down his errant bride-to-be!  Finding her, and finding out the truth, devastates him and he is furious to find that a woman he had come to love had deceived him.  After coming clean with the truth and Martin huffs off to lick his wounds, Harriet is then placed in the awful position of having to beg him to help her in her next mission. He and he alone is the key to getting her into a house party to make contact with a courier that would aid in saving her brothers life.  She didn't divulge the details to Martin but only asked for his assistance.  Still hurt, Martin is more than willing to make her pay the ultimate price for his help - she will pose as and perform the duties of his mistress!<br />Ms. Sizemore's style is vividly fresh, witty and her story is original - I just loved it! The plot was so outrageous, the double entendres and argumentative dialogs with an outstanding strong female lead and her protagonist counterpart were truly amusing. Top this off with a family that is so unique that it opens the door for some marvelous sequels which I cannot wait to see this author capitalize on! The eccentric secondary characters, Aunt Phoebe, and Mrs. Swift are both real hoots. The intrigue is great and the sensuality sizzles in this action packed page-turner that features a terrific ensemble of irreverent and unforgettable characters.  This is a great historical read on all fronts that is a totally absorbing read!to love had deceived him.  After coming clean with the truth and Martin huffs off to lick his wounds, Harriet is then placed in the awful position of having to beg him to help her in her next mission. He and he alone is the key to getting her into a house party to make contact with a courier that would aid in saving her brothers life.  She didn't divulge the details to Martin but only asked for his assistance.  Still hurt, Martin is more than willing to make her pay the ultimate price for his help - she will pose as and perform the duties of his mistress!   <br />Ms. Sizemore's style is vividly fresh, witty and her story is original - I just loved it! The plot was so outrageous, the double entendres and argumentative dialogs with an outstanding strong female lead and her protagonist counterpart were truly amusing. Top this off with a family that is so unique that it opens the door for some marvelous sequels which I cannot wait to see this author capitalize on! The eccentric secondary characters, Aunt Phoebe, and Mrs. Swift are both real hoots. The intrigue is great and the sensuality sizzles in this action packed page-turner that features a terrific ensemble of irreverent and unforgettable characters.  This is a great historical read on all fronts that is a totally absorbing read!	2003-08-05
1023457:US	45284807	RGZQ0PWCFOS66	0380820676	950022200	Soaring Eagle's Embrace	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Very Good Native American Historical	Setting - Montana Mountains 1895 - Kali Wallace and her father, a noted historical author, have come to the Blackfoot reservation in the Montana mountains for more research on the native American peoples and for Kali, whose photographs accompany the text. However, as the Indians have a fear of being photographed - stemming from gossip that the photo steals their spirit - Kali must use her charm to convince the Chiefs that she would bring them no harm.  Their Indian guide, Gilda, (a female) convinces both Kali and her father to accompany her up to Chiefs Mountain to see a spectacular sunrise. Gilda spins a tale of lost love and spirits before everyone settles down for the night.  Kali, promptly fell asleep but was awakened during the night by someone singing. Following the sounds she comes upon the sight of a most magnificent Indian warrior. There eyes meet, he holds out a fan of feathers, she touches and is overcome and runs away.<br />The following days, the government Indian Agent arranges a presentation for Kali and her father, to meet the chiefs promising to use his influence to arrange permission for Kali to photograph.  Naturally, during the presentations she spies the handsome warrior, only he is giving her looks as if he despised her.  Not knowing what she had done she manages to speak to him and finds he trusts `no white persons'.  Kali finagles a way to get him to accompany her to take some photos the next day, whereby the attraction that is smoldering seems to ignite after a stampede that has Soaring Eagle first saving her life, then after the stampede and the ranchers who caused it show up - Kali manages to save his life.<br />The plot is relatively light with Soaring Eagle whose deep spiritual beliefs allow him to recognize the spirits at work bringing them together is able to readily confess his feelings.  Kali, on the other hand, fights the attraction, denies her feelings and comes up with the very plausible and plain facts of the impossibility of their situation until a mysterious photograph she didn't take shows up.  The romance of Soaring Eagle and Kali sharing the same dream in which the spirit world marries them is very powerful and deeply moving with supernatural overtones, rich in Indian lore and historical facts and very sensual.  If not for the inconsistencies I felt in some of the dialogs I might have rated this a little higher for I truly did enjoy the story and most definitely recommend it to those readers who find this American Indian genre to their liking.their situation until a mysterious photograph she didn't take shows up.  The romance of Soaring Eagle and Kali sharing the same dream in which the spirit world marries them is very powerful and deeply moving with supernatural overtones, rich in Indian lore and historical facts and very sensual.  If not for the inconsistencies I felt in some of the dialogs I might have rated this a little higher for I truly did enjoy the story and most definitely recommend it to those readers who find this American Indian genre to their liking.	2003-08-04
1027272:US	45284807	R3DMIA9SFK6NXT	0821772848	927082060	Marrying Miss Bumblebroth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A most Excellent Regency Romance To Warm Your Heart	Chloe Russell, after a disastrous and  clumsy debut had retired from society, keeping to herself, in order to keep the sneers of her hated nickname - Miss Bumblebroth from her ears.  She convinced herself that if she wasn't exactly happy, living with her brother and his wife, her cousin, she was at least content.  Now at 21, it came as quite a surprise that her brother was promoting a betrothal that had been somewhat arranged by her late father years before and his friend, to Lord Michael Lyndon, heir to the Earl of Grantham.  He was a true Corinthian, athletic, handsome and titled.  The fact of the matter that was while Lyndon came from an old and revered title - there was little left of the money to go along with it therefore, Chloe's dowry and inheritance was the main attraction.<br />Michael was not happy with the dictate from his father that he offer for Miss Russell, as he had heard all stories of her clumsiness and knew of the nickname she had been sporting since childhood.  Upon meeting her for the first time, her outspokenness and candor, truly shocked him, as did her intelligence - but pleasantly so and he did offer for her.  Chloe fell in love with Michael right off and it wasn't long before Michael began looking forward to spending time with her.  She didn't become graceful overnight but with each other they became comfortable, and even Michael, the athletic Corinthian sharing some painful memories of a turbulent childhood tragedy.<br />This has to be one of the sweetest regency romantic love stories I have read in some time.  I confess to have started smiling from the very first pages of this book right to the very end.  The innocence and the outspokenness of Chloe was so utterly charming and honest. Michael, Viscount Lyndon, while the total opposite of Chloe was totally sympathetic, kind, and supporting of Chloe - a true knight in shining armor - even if he was the last person to realize that he had fallen in love with her.  The supporting characters were all amusing and fully developed and I especially loved the part where Chloe's sister-in-law Helena tries to explain the marital obligations of the wedding night - this was an absolute scream!  This was a most excellent read and will go on my keeper shelf to be re-read and enjoyed again.ters were all amusing and fully developed and I especially loved the part where Chloe's sister-in-law Helena tries to explain the marital obligations of the wedding night - this was an absolute scream!  This was a most excellent read and will go on my keeper shelf to be re-read and enjoyed again.	2003-08-01
1029938:US	45284807	RHJEZFPOXOWOP	0373292341	854614345	The Dumont bride	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Solid Gold - RIVETING Historical Romance	Anjou Province, France 1194 - Christian Dumont, was once known as the Comte de Langier, before treasonous acts against Richard, Coeur de Lion, by his father brought he and his brother Geoffrey close to deaths door. Now he has been summoned by the King and given an offer he cannot refuse.  He is to have his title, wealth, and lands restored if he travels to England and consent to a royal command from Queen Eleanor.  He knew not what the task would be but knew that whatever it was, if it meant saving his beloved brothers life, he would agree.<br />Arriving in England, weak from months of imprisonment, he cannot help but be impressed by the demesne of Castle Greystone, and more so by the Countess, Emalie Montgomerie whom he finds he is to wed.  Queen Eleanor, has contrived a plan to protect Emalie, from the vile and corrupt  Prince John who is trying his best to wrest control of the valuable lands belonging to her.<br />Emalie and Christian find themselves as helpless pawns as the feuding royals battle one another over territorial control.  Christian thinks himself lucky to find himself in such a situation, until he finds that the young woman he is married to carries a child of rape, a rape that she refuses to name or remember.  Both hide the truths of the dishonors dealt to them  dishonors that stemmed not from their actions but from the actions of others.  Yet, in spite of this, a love develops between them based upon the honor and goodness they finally discover in one another.<br />This was an amazing story that I finished in one sitting it was so riveting.  From the political machinations, to the heartbreaking love that was almost torn apart, and to the most surprising ending!  The characters came alive on the pages with vivid historical background, sparkling dialogues and beautiful and very passionate love scenes.  This was indeed a phenomenal read that gets solid GOLD ratings!  Put this on the keeper shelf!	2003-07-30
1031025:US	45284807	R1EJV3IG16OOD8	1929613059	585323328	The Lion's Shadow	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting and Enjoyable -	I am a great fan of Katie MacAlister and discovering that she also wrote under another name I discovered this out of print earlier novel.  Cassandra Whitney is the charming and feisty heroine who has joined the suffrage movement to gain woman the freedom to vote. She is a die-hard feminist of her age and has landed herself in some pretty amusing (or would be, if not for the serious nature of the movement) circumstances that have landed her in jail.  It was one of these situations that she would meet the explorer, Griffin St. John - brother of the Earl of Sherringham who was one of the staunchest opposers against the movement.  While Griffin was not impressed with the suffrage movement - he was impressed with the lovely Cassandra Whitney. They would come into contact with one another on more than one occasion before their mutual attraction would be noticed and force a heinous plot placing them both in the thick of an intrigue of madness and greed.<br />The heroine is an interestingly feisty character who manages to get herself into quite a few messes but thanks to an unconventional childhood friend (one who taught her to plant `facers' and pick locks) she does quite well with extricating herself from some dangerous situations and nefarious plots.  The story has its lighter moments as well as some cute romantic encounters (i.e. ...after a very passionate kiss she decided that she and Mr. St. Johns should definitely be on a first name basis) showing the more humorous side of the author that writes as Katie MacAlister.  Griffin is not as finely drawn out as our heroine is and could have used a bit more background.<br />For the historical value as a chronicle of what these brave suffrage woman suffered for their ideals, I do applaud the author for writing about this area of history I only took for granted. While I am not in any way a feminist - I do value the freedoms that women in this day and age,  and country enjoy and will recommend this book more for the historical aspect than for the romance.  The romance was light and cute but not in anyway sensual or explicit in content.  I did find it interesting and the mystery was tense and difficult to figure out until the very end.  Bottom line - interesting and enjoyable.aspect than for the romance.  The romance was light and cute but not in anyway sensual or explicit in content.   I did find it interesting and the mystery was tense and difficult to figure out until the very end.  Bottom line - interesting and enjoyable.	2003-07-29
1035293:US	45284807	RBUIIUYAF2GX6	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Enjoy The Bridgerton Experience!	Miss Eloise Bridgerton at eight and twenty - she wasn't looking for someone perfect - just perfect for her! She didn't think herself beautiful, attractive but she was a Bridgerton after all, but most people liked her because she was nice.  She was a wonderful correspondent and spent hours writing letters, birthday greetings, get well notes, etc. On the occasion of hearing of her cousins death she sent along a condolence letter to the bereaved husband, Sir Phillip Crane who in response to that note not only replied with a thank you but sent her a pressed flower in remembrance, and, so began a year long `secret' pen pal correspondence.<br />Sir Phillip, was a quiet man, a botanist - who while not happy - seemed to find some comfort in his work in his greenhouse.  He had two children that he needed to find a mother for and knowing that Eloise Bridgerton was a spinster and more than likely homely and unassuming he would send a note along inquiring that they meet to see if they might not `suit'.  However, he was in no way prepared to find a beautiful young woman, unescorted, in the early morning standing on his doorstep - a woman with cool gray eyes he could have drowned in! As Eloise charged through the next couple of days, she found that Sir Phillip wasn't exactly perfect - he needed a lot of work - but there was something about him that she would find was perfect for her!<br />What Julia Quinn has done, my dear reader, is to draw you in with her exquisite characterizations of this remarkable family so that you cannot help yourself but smile. From the moment you pick up the book to the very end you will find yourself on an emotional roller coaster of feelings as if you were living the story rather than a casual observer.  I have followed the Bridgerton family chronicles since the very beginning with THE DUKE AND I, and each individual book has been placed on my keeper shelf where this one is sure to follow along with anything else this extremely gifted and talented author deems to write.  While you could pick up any of the series as stand alone books, for pure enjoyment - buy them all and enjoy the Bridgerton loving family experience!uthor deems to write.  While you could pick up any of the series as stand alone books, for pure enjoyment - buy them all and enjoy the Bridgerton loving family experience!	2003-07-25
1036836:US	45284807	R37OFA004M47J	0380820900	649990034	Stealing the Bride (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Very Enjoyable Regency	England 1809 - At twenty-nine years old Lady Diana Fordham is known by the ton as an eccentric spinster with no chance of marrying - a bit long in the tooth in spite of a very ample dowry.  Beautiful, intelligent, and patient, Diana knows what she wants and has waited long enough!  The man who broke her heart ten years ago had just run out of time and now Diana was ready to launch an elaborate plan to storm his defenses and bring him to task! She devises a plan to make it appear that she has been kidnapped by the worst sort of rake she could find - knowing in her heart that Temple would come to rescue her. Her father, Lord Fordham, raises the alarm that she has been abducted and announces that whoever rescues her will be the man Diana will marry her - and so the race was on!<br />The Marquis of Templeton, known as the \\"Temple\\", appears as an `idiot fop' to most observers.  He has used this ruse to disguise his true identity as a very courageous and effective spy.  The Foreign Office assigns him the task of rescuing the chit and see her married to one of two suitors that have asked for her hand in marriage. Temple would rather not have to do this as the less time spent in Diana's company the better.  He has always secretly been in love with Diana but through some very convoluted logic (it's a guy thing), born of stubbornness and rebellion, has distanced himself from her - convinced that he would place her in danger.  Unfortunately, danger has caught up with Diana, in the form of, and from a source that no one would have suspected as Temple and the `heiress bride stealers' race on to Gretna Green.<br />STEALING THE BRIDE should steal the hearts of most Regency romance readers.  The last ditch effort of the strong and resourceful lead heroine, Lady Diana, to bring Temple up to snuff was for me a lovely plot that I truly enjoyed.  The supporting characters were delightful and charmingly amusing and the re-introduction of characters from her previous novels has me now scurrying around looking for the earlier related publications. I have not been disappointed by this author as she brings originality, sparkling dialog and feeling to her characters that make you a part of the `family' and looking for more.  This was a truly enjoyable read that I can heartily recommend.currying around looking for the earlier related publications. I have not been disappointed by this author as she brings originality, sparkling dialog and feeling to her characters that make you a part of the `family' and looking for more.   This was a truly enjoyable read that I can heartily recommend.	2003-07-24
1037743:US	45284807	R3P58TII7N9TAL	0505525372	678465223	Spellbound in Seattle	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Zany Characters	Let me first preface this review with the impression I had upon reading the back cover and book description.  I `assumed' this was going to be a time-travel that would be taking me back to a medieval type locale with wizards and magicians.  It was not anything like that.<br />The setting is modern day in a world that accepts the existence of humans who have unusual magical type powers - wizards, witches, amazons - you get the drift? Petra Fields happens to be the daughter of two very powerful wizards, but she did not inherit any magical powers from her parents gene fields at all!  She had an interesting yet loving childhood and grew up thinking to marry a wizard type (Harold) until she found that he was playing her - primarily to get closer to her illustrious parents.  Doing what she did best - after doing a number on Harold - she ran off to Seattle, a `Mecca' for wizards.<br />Petra is getting ready to host a party and all of a sudden, this rug she had bought exhibits a big bloody stain that she can't get rid of.  She calls for a `wizard' company (yes, it does get a little far-fetched) to come and `zap' the stain out.  The company that shows up is not the company called upon but they encounter a problem and end up calling their `grand wizard' out to rectify the problem. Well the `grand' wizard is a real hottie (with a penchant for fires actually) and Petra is really dazzled by his maleness and the wizard, Vorador, returns the sentiment! He is uncommonly attracted to Petra, a non-magical type, whom he generally stays far away from!<br />Well, the stain turns into this massive complication as it belongs to a murdered wizard who had cast a spell as her life's blood was draining from her body.  Because of his uncommon attraction for Petra, Vorador is not functioning at his best and because Petra has been burnt by a magical type before, she is fighting a huge attraction where she would like nothing better than to jump all over him and the sparks do fly back and forth - but unfortunately - they are just sparks (and a lot of flames) until practically the end of the book. But the slapstick episodes and unusual supporting cast of characters just keep rolling on and on!<br />The character portrayals were interesting in that Petra was not your stereotype svelte and beautiful modern day heroine but slightly chubby and out of shape with a very sarcastic attitude (self preservation) towards the `grand poopah wizard' in spite of her attraction.  Vorador was a bit of a mystery - not wanting to reveal his real name until the end of the book. There was even a stray cat Bosco arriving on her doorstep the same day as the carpet who had a secret.  And, on top of the murder mystery I felt was an even bigger mystery of who or what was Orwell (That you have to find out for yourself!)  Suffice it to say that the story is full of numerous zany characters, a lot of magic, and some snappy dialog.  This was a decent read even though my assumption of the plot I was expecting was a bit off.  I will definitely keep my eyes on this author though, as her imagination and sense of humor were quite unique for this debut novel.- but unfortunately - they are just sparks (and a lot of flames) until practically the end of the book. But the slapstick episodes and unusual supporting cast of characters just keep rolling on and on!<br />The character portrayals were interesting in that Petra was not your stereotype svelte and beautiful modern day heroine but slightly chubby and out of shape with a very sarcastic attitude (self preservation) towards the `grand poopah wizard' in spite of her attraction.  Vorador was a bit of a mystery - not wanting to reveal his real name until the end of the book. There was even a stray cat Bosco arriving on her doorstep the same day as the carpet who had a secret.  And, on top of the murder mystery I felt was an even bigger mystery of who or what was Orwell (That you have to find out for yourself!)   Suffice it to say that the story is full of numerous zany characters, a lot of magic, and some snappy dialog.  This was a decent read even though my assumption of the plot I was expecting was a bit off.  I will definitely keep my eyes on this author though, as her imagination and sense of humor were quite unique for this debut novel.	2003-07-23
1037852:US	45284807	RRT68B9W6T8C5	0312984596	170838457	Absolute Pleasure	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Wonderfully Sensual Regency	I read numerous reviews before buying this book and clearly it was a - love it or hate it type of book - I wanted to see for myself, bought it, read it and I find that it was an absolute pleasure.<br />Gabriel Christofore, the male lead  and by no means a hero, was a scoundrel; his life shaped clearly by the father he adored, the fourth son of an earl, who was also a scoundrel! Gabriels Italian mother, who was the love of his fathers life, had been murdered so that this father and son relationship was extremely close as they only had each other. Lady Elizabeth Harcourt, was targeted as a mark, for Gabriel, an accomplished and gifted artist, as well as a master in seductive arts.<br />Lady Elizabeth, at the age of 27, has never been romanced; for years her fathers personal secretary, hostess, etc. her life was mundane and having known none other, content  until her father married a young girl of 17 who was turning her life into hell. The outrageous appeal of this handsome, outspoken, and flamboyant artist was a temptation that held appeal. Elizabeth soon realized that the painting was secondary in nature to Gabriels true mission but just as he awakened a passion in Elizabeth, she did the same to him which would end up consuming them both.<br />One would think that you should dislike Gabriel, but through the authors deft characterization, you see that he was not all bad  outrageous at times  but not a bad or evil person. When he soon realized that he came to care deeply for Elizabeth, he tried to break it off and remove himself from the situation but Elizabeth wouldnt let him and what follows was an extremely sensual downfall of this scoundrel  and his father as well. Yes, as a secondary romance, even Gabriels father was struck by Cupids arrow. This was a very good story  I thoroughly enjoyed it and except for a warning to the very faint hearted as to the explicit sexual content I heartily recommend it!	2003-07-23
1039716:US	45284807	R1TBG4AZXAF6U9	0765306557	532234918	Understudy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	AWESOME - Solid Gold	Wow! Take two beautiful young girls - total opposites - one born with a silver spoon in her mouth and the other `trailer park trash' and make them roommates at the posh William and Mary college with instant `bonding'.  You will simply fall in love with the girls and with this very lush, vivid, and sometimes humorous and also heartbreaking story of Robin Mulcahey and Amy Shiley.  You'll simply run the gamut of emotions here.<br />They were total opposites in most respects - but inseparable best friends until the auto accident that totally disfigured one and killed the other.  Amy had come to think of Robin's mom as her own, having only a comatose mother as her only living relative, so when Robin's parents identified Amy as Robin, and with a tube down her throat and unable to move or stay conscious long enough to correct them, Amy decided then and there to take over Robin's life. Since she had lost her best friend, she just couldn't bear to lose her adopted family as well.<br />People who read this will make their own determination as to Amy's decision - if they had the chance to assume a new life - would they take it?  The choice was a moral dilemma that Amy took, but Amy would discover that living another's life could cost her more heartbreak than she could have ever imagined. This was an absolutely sensational story and plot, a fast- paced, vivid and exciting read that I most heartily recommend! Put this is on your buy list and keeper shelf! Lush, vivid, emotional - solid gold!	2003-07-22
1040259:US	45284807	R1WZRBL5JP9XEI	0373292651	333304114	Beauchamp Besieged	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding Debut Novel	A very graphic prologue gives you a wonderful introduction to this novel by setting the stage and giving you insight into the personalities of three brothers during the English/Welsh conflicts on the marches in the 1190's. However, it is mainly the story of Raymond de Beauchamp, known as the Carrog Dhu, or Black Dragon.<br />Raymond de Beauchamp and Ceridwen of Llyn y Gareg Wen shared a history, although neither knew of it until some years later.  Ceridwen was betrothed to Raymond to form an alliance in order to stabilize the border marches. She hated the English for killing so many of her kin but held a much more bitter hatred for the knight that years earlier had slain her best friend during a battle. She thought that this would be an opportunity to exact revenge. On her way to her groom, Ceridwyn's party is attacked and she escapes only to be attacked and almost raped days later when she would be saved by none other than the Carrog Dhu himself. In an effort to rescue the maiden from being raped, he inadvertently wounds her and still not knowing who she is - brings her to his keep.  He had no idea who she was although he did notice that under the dirt and grime she was exquisite. He soon discovered who she was but would be determined to protect himself and her from heartbreak and he would pretend to feel nothing.  He blamed himself over the death of his former wife and would keep himself from ever feeling anything like that again so he would attempt to rid himself of this wife he did not want.  Willfully as stubborn as he, Ceridwen would not be shamed by being sent back to her father - she would do her `duty' even though the mere touch of this man was so very disturbing.<br />This was an extremely good, visually stunning medieval romance with a very angry young woman and an bitter emotionally scarred man who had buried his feelings with the beloved wife he was accused of murdering.  It tells a story of a good brother and the bad seed brother whose blessed good looks disguised a selfish and evil heart.  More than that it shows you the growth of a young innocent maiden as she realizes that the anger she feels was hers alone, and that happiness was within her grasp if she would but forgive and embrace the love she had been so quick to toss aside.  I will be anxious to watch this talented author for future offerings as this novel was an outstanding debut.ks disguised a selfish and evil heart.  More than that it shows you the growth of a young innocent maiden as she realizes that the anger she feels was hers alone, and that happiness was within her grasp if she would but forgive and embrace the love she had been so quick to toss aside.   I will be anxious to watch this talented author for future offerings as this novel was an outstanding debut.	2003-07-21
1040412:US	45284807	R32EJ6NDQQ9OR6	0373765207	534009308	Cinderella's Millionaire  (Dynasties:  The Barones)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Perfect for a Day at the Beach	This was a lovely little story with fairy tale implications as a young working woman actually snags the millionaire prince charming.  Of course the `charming' part is loosely defined as this prince charming, Joe Barone, CFO of the famous Baronessa Gelateria has walled up his emotions since the death of his wife some five years earlier.  He has feelings of failure that he could not save her and drives himself relentlessly in work rather than take another chance on love and being hurt.<br />Holly is delightful, energetic and bright, she works a couple of jobs in a bakery as a pastry chef and is the glue that has held her father and brothers together since the age of eighteen when her mom died.  She crosses paths with Joe when she wins a recipe contest for a new flavor gelato for Baronessa.  The moment Joe sees her he is reminded of his dearly departed wife and is ready to run, but Holly going against her better judgement, and speaking before thinking, challenges him in ways he cannot turn down. Before you know it though, he makes her an offer that `Cinderella' would be a fool to refuse!<br />The reader definitely will really enjoy this short romantic novel.  I especially loved the honesty that pops right out of Holly's mouth and the sexual innuendo's from the handsome Italian stallion - Joe Barone who utters too much of his hidden desires before he has a chance to `put a lid on it.'  Being from New England, I loved all the references to our famous city of Boston as well!  Short and sweet, sexy and sassy - what more could you ask for in a nice little sensual romance just perfect for a day at the beach!	2003-07-21
1047288:US	45284807	R36FSAIYCW0QIV	0743466497	608808973	The Captain of All Pleasures	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Hot, Sexy and Full of Adventure	London 1856 - Nicole Lassiter, was indeed something of an original - more at home on the deck of a ship in the attire of sailor, than in a dress at the finishing schools her grandmother sent her to in an attempt to turn her into a proper lady.  But a deal was a deal and she had, after all, mastered seven out of the nine subjects at the school before she and the school mutually parted company! Now she was searching for her father, Captain Lassiter along the dockside.  She just had to convince him to let her take part in the Great Circle race from London to Sydney.  This search led to the Mermaid - a place that sailors came to find `company'.  Well she found him and soon she caught her first glimpse of her father's biggest competitor and enemy - Derek Sutherland - rake, drunk - and gloriously handsome and virile.  As preparations for the race progressed so did the sabotaging of certain ships. Stumbling upon just such an event - Nicole ended up running for her life right into the arms of Sutherland - or from the frying pan into the fire.  For both it would be the beginning of a passionate encounter that would change the course of both their lives. Soon after this fateful meeting, Derek learns that Nicole is his nemesis' daughter and when he inadvertently causes Nicole's  father to miss out on the start of the race, Nicole decides to take over the helm in place of her father.  Now both are determined to best one another on the high seas where anything could and does happen!<br />This was a very good debut novel that leaves you with a satisfying end and whets your appetite in setting up the stage for a sequel starring Derek's' brother Grant. While I found in the beginning that the author opened up areas that I thought might have been explored further, specifically motives for the sabotaging, and more history to some unspecified relationships, all was explained away in the end.  A little bit unbelievable was the sexual ignorance of the heroine who spent so much time growing up around the crew of sailing vessal - but considering the very hot sexual encounters that resulted in her ignorance (which by the way will just make your toes curl) - who am I to complain!  The dialog was fresh, the action was lively, and I certainly wasn't bored reading it - I fairly flew through the pages.  I would say this is a terrific debut for a new and very talented author.  I'm looking forward to the sequel.ing up around the crew of sailing vessal - but considering the very hot sexual encounters that resulted in her ignorance (which by the way will just make your toes curl) - who am I to complain!  The dialog was fresh, the action was lively, and I certainly wasn't bored reading it - I fairly flew through the pages.  I would say this is a terrific debut for a new and very talented author.  I'm looking forward to the sequel.	2003-07-16
1048798:US	45284807	R1GQ6BHPT9EQ32	0451195418	443862677	My Lady Ghost (Regency Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots of Thrills in this Lovely Romance	Allison Weatherby was a beautiful widow, left near destitute by her husband's demise but surviving under the kind care of Thorne D'Aumont, the dashing Marquess of Silverthorne and her childhood friend.  Hearing the catty whispers at function that she was the mistress of Thorne, she thought that it was time that their friendship be taken to the next level - for her that would be marriage.  Unfortunately, Thorne vowed never to marry for love and what he proposed to Allison under the throes of a passionate encounter was carte blanche which so angered Allison that she removed her mother and herself vowing to never spend another night under one of Thorne's roofs.  The attraction and love was there for both of them but Thorne could not commit to a marriage with someone he could love and become slave to her whims like his father before him.<br />Eventually, for the sake of the comfort of her mother, Allison agreed to stay at one of the lesser cottages bordering the Silverthorne castle in the hope of encountering the Silver Lady - a ghostly spectral vision she had seen a few times as a child.  She knew herself to be one of the heirs to the treasure rumored to be buried in the castle.  If she could find the treasure, she would be financially independent and able to live away from Thorne, the man she loved but knew she could not have.<br />This was a very romantic and intelligent love story. - It took being trapped together for them to realize that they could learn to be partners and not try to dominate one another.  This was a fast paced and exciting romance, filled with sexual tension, ghostly encounters, and good secondary supporting characters.  Just enough excitement, thrills and chills in the escape sequence and really an intelligent romance that didn't have any of the silliness that so often is found in these lighter regency type romances. I really loved the Silver Lady ghost and the `guard geese' that I thought was an unusual but effective plot in the story.  The imprisonment and the escape were also extremely well written and will keep you on the edge of your seat.  This was a fully satisfying read that I highly recommend!prisonment and the escape were also extremely well written and will keep you on the edge of your seat.  This was a fully satisfying read that I highly recommend!	2003-07-15
1049769:US	45284807	R1UWSS6SLOWGQI	0425190706	397935523	A Man of Many Talents (BERKLEY SENSATION HSITORICAL ROMANCE)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Really a Three and one half Star Rating	Christian Reade, heir to an earldom, was famous as the ghost-buster or ghost de-bunker of a haunted house.  This unfortunate bit of fame was not something he had been looking for and was something that would be `haunting' him for the rest of his life.  Christian knew nothing of ghosts, but he figured out that the hauntings of a spectral claim at Belles Corners were more of a mortal nature than supernatural and now he was being `haunted' by all sorts of requests for him to perform the same services.<br />Abigail Parkinson inherited Sibel Hall, three new cousins she had no knowledge of, and it appeared - a ghost - Sir Boundefort.  She has never seen the ghost who seems only to appear to scare away prospective buyers and she really does need to sell this house!  She writes to ghost chaser Christian Reade, (her last resort) with the request to help her rid the property of the unwanted specter.  Christian does not want to go but at the request of his ailing grandfather agrees to help this damsel in distress.<br />Now, I am a huge fan of Deborah Simmons - have read and immensely enjoyed all of her previous novels (absolutely loved the DeBurgh series) so I was really looking forward to the release of her latest book.  Unfortunately, this story comes nowhere near the freshness, sensuality, and the excitement of her previous novels.  The story, for me, really broke down when Christian arrives to an extremely cold reception from Abigail - remember - she requested that he come!  He cannot understand (and the reason is not revealed until the last two pages of the book) why she treats him with such disdain.  The three eccentric cousins are relatively flat and though key to the story did not, in my opinion, give it much life.  I can generally read a 316 page book in less than a day but this one just did not garner any anticipation from me in that it was too easy to put down and I was not anxious to pick it back up other than to try and figure out why the heroine was so rude to Christian - I stretched this read out to almost three days!  Emery the cousin was obnoxious as all get out and why a hostess, did not curb the disdain shown to a houseguest and a peer of the realm was not in keeping with the times.  Again, I have read all of this authors earlier books and have to say that this was not up to her usual standards.hristian - I stretched this read out to almost three days!  Emery the cousin was obnoxious as all get out and why a hostess, did not curb the disdain shown to a houseguest and a peer of the realm was not in keeping with the times.  Again, I have read all of this authors earlier books and have to say that this was not up to her usual standards.	2003-07-14
1061250:US	45284807	R23MWVHQE6P43D	0553585835	544649541	Fountain of Dreams (Akora)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exciting Romance	London, 1837 - an intruder watches the estate of the Akoran royal familes for the precise moment when he can, with skill and stealth, slip past the famed Akoran guards into the mansion and abduct the Princess Amelia. Skillfully accomplished, though not without more of a struggle than he had anticipated from a mere woman, he and his ever faithful `Shadow' accomplish the first step in an elaborate plan to artfully infiltrate the closely guarded and select Akoran society.  Amelia, reacts in precisely the way they had anticipated by escaping on her own and then being rescued on the road by an `unsuspecting' traveler - the Kentucky born, Niels Wolfson.  With a special Akoran gift of being able to discern what is in a persons heart, Amelia senses the goodness in Niels and is ready to trust him, yet she also senses that he is more than what he seems.  Amelia is definitely attracted to her handsome rescuer who appears not at all impressed by her claims to royalty.<br /> Niels was on a mission to discover whether the Akoran's were friends or enemies to America, and his growing attraction to the Princess was a complication that he could not afford - nor could he deny.  Her courage and her straightforwardness were attributes he could not ignore that drew him like a moth to a flame. How could a relationship survive if he uncovered facts proving the Akorans had initiated an act of war on America and that they would be enemies with their countries at war?  Yet how could he resist?<br />This was my first Akoran historical romance with references that told me that this was a new generation from the original books.  It had a definite a stand alone quality, although the many references certainly will have me looking up the previous novels in this wonderful series to learn more of this delightful island paradise of Akora and the men and women whose lives influenced this latest entry.  Amelia and Niels were a wonderfully honest and straightforward couple.  The excitement and the passion was just the right blend to keep you turning the pages well into the night.sion was just the right blend to keep you turning the pages well into the night.	2003-07-04
1064894:US	45284807	R2P041BGIZL75Y	0671026836	275845431	Indiscretion (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Enjoy a Wonderful and Funny Indiscretion!	Whenever I've picked up a book by Jillian Hunter I know I am not going to be disappointed and \\"Indiscretion\\"  - is again a testament to that fact.  In a nutshell, Anne Kerr was labeled as fast and wild as a young girl.  An unhappy home life made her wild and crazy horse rides across the moorlands food for fodder and the gossips had a field day.  In a very impetuous moment - and possibly as an act of rebellion she arranged to meet the local noblemens son and `bad boy' Patrick Sutherland, for an afternoon delight!   She innocently gave herself and her love thinking that it meant something to him, but for Patrick the loss of his mother and the apparent disdain of his father for his wild ways only spurred his rebellion. He just didn't think beyond that day, although to his credit he told her that should she become pregnant to contact him.   He was sent away  only to find a few months later that Anne had been married off to his cousin David.<br />Seven years later, Anne is now a widow whose mourning period has passed. Queen Victoria has summoned her for an audience.  Who should she run into but the man who broke her heart - who as it happens has also been summoned for an audience with the queen. Queen Victoria, on the advice of her `advisor' requested that Anne and her cousin by marriage - Patrick - travel to Anne's Scotland estate to investigate the suspicious death of Patrick's Uncle Edgar and naturally, Anne's uncle by marriage.  The whispered witty dialog as the plans were made that both Patrick and Anne had going back and forth were simply too, too funny.  Patrick was all for the plan - Anne thought it horrendous - until the queen informed them that her `advisor' thought Patrick could travel incognito, so to speak, as none other than Anne's butler!  You will just laugh yourself silly over Patrick's portrayal of the most irreverent butler you have ever seen as he tries to romance his way back into Anne's life!<br />Patrick, as a butler was a stroke of genius, and thenumerous and colorful secondary characters, especially Patrick's very feisty, no-nonsense Aunt Nellwyn - who just happened to be Queen Victoria's `advisor' - is a gem.  The plot is totally fresh and the flashbacks to Anne and Patrick's one very, very sensual indiscretion was delightful to say the least!  Sit back, grab this book and totally enjoy this one very stimulating  `indiscretion' !	2003-07-02
1066538:US	45284807	R34ZZ7TY9YB4YQ	0060517212	320132779	If the Slipper Fits	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Where Was This Supposed to Go?	This is a difficult review to write for a couple of reasons.  First by the cover and the back cover description one would think that you were picking up a light contemporary comedy type book.  Granted there were a few zany type characters sprinkled throughout the story as the rich heir (Connor) to this magnificent Maine property comes back after an eleven year absence due to having his heart broken irreparably by a young summer housemaid (Anne) now elevated to steward/house curator manager. Connor has returned to sell the property -- and here is where some of the secondary characters come into play as they set out trying to convince the prospective new owner that the property is ready to fall apart and is haunted so that the sale does not go through and their jobs are saved.<br />Unfortunately, while the plot sounds good, and should have been humorous, it fell rather flat as instead of making me chuckle over the humor my emotions were too caught up in the beastly way our hero Connor was treating Anne - as she decided that - even though it had been eleven years and not a word from him - she was going to set out and seduce him without fessing up as to the real reason she sent him packing all those years ago!  BE FOR REAL GIRLFRIEND!  This plot just didn't do it for me - I had to re-read the book description again to figure out what this book should have been categorized as.  The first half of this book had me so caught up in Anne's pain emotionally that the humor seemed so secondary to be almost non-existent.  Connor was just too angry to fall for any of the futile seduction attempts Anne was making.  If it were not for the intervention of Connor's wonderfully drawn out Uncle Marcello these two never would have been reunited at all what with Connor's wicked step-mother and Anne's bitter grandmother pulling the strings to keep them apart.<br />The only reason I did give this book the rating I did was that the writing itself did pull me emotionally, only not in the direction that I feel the author had intended.irection that I feel the author had intended.	2003-06-30
1068113:US	45284807	R31FXQWNJH7XJF	0671026828	417180653	Delight	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Title Tells You All	Douglas Moncrieff, aka the Dragon of Darien, by a stroke of the merry king's pen is given a Scottish earldom...and a royal order to behave. He could never have been called an angel, always taking what he wanted but now he would have to lay the pirate to rest and prove himself to be civilized when the mere sight of the Princess Rowena leaves his body feeling anything but civilized.  Here she was the beautiful and wealthy Princess Rowena of Hartzburg, an innocent heiress in danger, fleeing to the Highlands to seek the protection of and aid from Douglas saintly half brother Matthew, whom hed always despised.  Having heard that Matthew had broken his leg in an act of heroism and would be delayed, Douglas and his colorful pirate crew were concocting plans in order to impress the princess.<br />In a word, the title describes the rest of this book. Im glad that I was alone when I read it, because I would have embarrassed myself when scenes from this book had me laughing hysterically.  The scene with the demonstration of the flight of the falcon, engineered by Douglas sister Gemma and crewmembers is priceless!  But not for laughs alone  you will be also be delighted with the swashbuckling fight scenes, the very sensual love scenes and the touchingly sweet bonding of these men and women who had lived and loved together as pirates on the high seas and now attempted to live  respectable lives on land.<br />The characters are all finely drawn and hewn to a vivid image by the deft and brilliant pen of this wonderful author and you will take them all and embrace them in your heart as you read this magical tale.  I found it to be an exceptionally fast read and very difficult to put down.  It doesnt have a terrific amount of historical data to consume as much as page turning excitement, sexual tension and loads of laughs.  This is definitely a very enjoyable and fun read that I highly recommend  a super book to take on vacation!	2003-06-29
1069573:US	45284807	RERYE5WTJ9VB5	0671001582	653369016	Daring	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Humorous Romantic Mystery	Maggie Saunders, was called an angel of mercy for her acts of kindness - and as you get to know her is this novel - you will come to love her just like the great and mighty Lord Advocate!  She was the daughter of a French Duke - lost most of her family from the maniacal madness caused in France during the Napoleonic wars. She came to live with an aged aunt in Scotland and after the aunt died - with no place else to go -  she, her devoted and aged butler Claude, and poodle Daphne, were adopted into the clan of one of the most feared and revered crime families in Aberdeen Scotland.  They might have been pickpockets, forgers, thieves, etc but they all loved the `little lassie' Maggie and being under the protection of the `Chief' there would be no one in that underworld who would do her harm!<br />Connor Buchanan, Lord Advocate of Scotland, was called many things, both good and bad - and he would be the first to admit to encouraging the bad so that the criminals would be afraid to come up against him. Connor came upon Maggie  at a reception in his home and mistook her for one of his guests.  Completely mesmerized by the aristocratic beauty he was well on his way to seduction when he was interrupted by his ex-mistress and good friend who had caught a young thief, Maggie's accomplice, in trying to steal back a confession one of her friends had signed over to the Lord Advocate.  While Connor went to see to the thief, Maggie would try to make her escape.  While attempting her escape she got lost - very bad sense of direction - and she stumbled onto the kidnapping of Connor's youngest sister.  Naturally, Maggie would do all she could to help and she attempted to thwart the kidnappers by smashing a bottle of stolen champagne against the driver of the kidnapping coach - she lost her balance - fell on her head - and the laughs just keep on coming in this divine little romantic comedy as Connor - falls deeper and deeper under the spell of the housebreaking, bumbling and delightful Maggie Saunders!<br />This was charming from beginning to end.  The finely drawn lead characters of both Connor and Maggie will worm their way into your heart as Connor attempts a seduction on the innocent and nave Maggie. The secondary characters who are woven in and out of the storyline are so very endearing from Claude the 84-year-old aged butler and self-appointed guardian of Maggie, to Connors eccentric ex-mistress and his zany Highlander neighbors and staff.  This book was total fun and the very sensual attempts at seduction made the final capitulation so very titillating.  I really enjoyed this humorous romantic mystery as Ms. Hunter deftly weaves humor into these charming romancesful Maggie Saunders!<br />This was charming from beginning to end.  The finely drawn lead characters of both Connor and Maggie will worm their way into your heart as Connor attempts a seduction on the innocent and nave Maggie. The secondary characters who are woven in and out of the storyline are so very endearing from Claude the 84-year-old aged butler and self-appointed guardian of Maggie, to Connors eccentric ex-mistress and his zany Highlander neighbors and staff.  This book was total fun and the very sensual attempts at seduction made the final capitulation so very titillating.  I really enjoyed this humorous romantic mystery as Ms. Hunter deftly weaves humor into these charming romances	2003-06-28
1071639:US	45284807	R28TSZOSNDTHMK	0373292643	75868206	Of Men And Angels	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Feel Good Kind of Romance	Traveling by stagecoach from Philadelphia to Colorado in 1885, Alexandra (Alex to her family and friends) Merritt had to get home but the ride thru a severe thunderstorm was anything but pleasant, that combined with a very pregnant young woman as her sole companion did not leave Alex with a very secure feeling.  Heavy rains washing away the road sent the stagecoach tumbling down a ravine killing the drivers and three mules. Surviving the crash was one thing, helping to birth the baby with no help was another as Alex called upon an inner strength to help her cope with this latest test.<br />Hung-over, running from the law, and hurting both body and soul  Jake Malone heard the voice of an angel singing hymns out on the Colorado plateau.  Following the sounds, he saw an angel covered in grime, blood and birth fluids on her hands and knees prompting the woman in birthing her babe. Hed seen men die and not been so affected by the sight before him.  Jake could have run  could have turned his back  but for once, hed think of someone besides himself and stayed to offer his assistance helping to bury the mother and bringing Alex to the next town.  Alex wasnt sure about this surly, battered and bruised individual but she had to get home somehow and he did offer to help so with a leap of faith a trust was formed.<br />This was such a poignant and sweet tale of trust, love and faith in human love and kindness.  It was deeply emotional, from the standpoint of watching the personal growth of Jake as he tried his best to turn his back on the hands of love and kindness that were extended to him.  On a deeper level, he was able to take the wonderful gift he was being offered and give back that part of him that hed kept hidden for so long.  This was a truly feel good kind of story that has much to recommend it besides being a  sweet romance -  and I most certainly do for anyone looking for good inspirational feelings of peace, love, and renewal. Absolutely lovely!ly lovely!	2003-06-26
1075937:US	45284807	R275ILTJJSXAXC	0671001574	245341047	Fairy Tale	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Be Prepared to be Totally Charmed!	Duncan MacElgin, had a reputation the devil himself envied. Hot-headed and ornery as a young boy when sent away to the army to learn discipline and find an outlet for his anger, he rose swiftly as a warrior then a battle hard general and minister of war. As the rightful heir of the clan MacElgin, he was ordered home to whip his clansmen into shape and stop them from raiding the British. Riding into the glen, he was attacked, beaten and stripped naked - not that he was expecting a hero's welcome, but this was ridiculous! - This band of misfits, were tarring him with honey and chicken feathers - and their leader was a woman!<br />Marsali Hay, was convinced that the man riding into the glen was an enemy, she had no idea that the beautiful specimen of manhood - now that she'd had a really good look - was the infamous \\"Black Duncan\\". Once he made it known who he was, their bloody chieftain after all - he would make Marsali pay dearly for her impertinence. Duncan would find though that the impertinent and darling of the clan, would have him at her knees as she and the band of mis-fits and characters that made up his clan would drive him to total distraction.<br />Be prepared to be totally charmed, from the dark and deeply guilt stricken Duncan to the innocent and spritely Marsali who gave him the redemption and love he needed as she and her band of misfit clansmen worked magic into his life. You will belly laugh through the antics of the supporting cast in this delightful novel from the battling ghosts, to the inept wizard uncle and the twin piglets! This was a totally outstanding read that I chuckled through and found so difficult to put down. Solid Gold!	2003-06-23
1076976:US	45284807	R2869GTSE10M0O	0786001739	840713922	Glenlyon's Bride	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Chasing an Heiress	When Niall Glenlyon returned to Scotland in 1840, it was in response to a summons from his Uncle and to establish some financial arrangements for his newly started coffee plantation on an island in the Indian ocean.  The stories of Niall had him as a reputed pimp in a far Eastern brothel, a seducer of virgins, jungle hero, mercenary soldier, and the stories were more bizarre with the telling.  What Niall really wanted was to escape the engagement party hed been roped into as quickly as possible.  Disturbing the solitude hed found in a vacant library, was a vision, Elspeth Victoria Kildrummond, the fianc&eacute; and daughter of his host, late for her own engagement party because of meeting with her gypsy friends.<br />It wouldnt be the last time Elspeth would disrupt Nialls plans as the fates conspired to bring these two together in a passionate, and dangerous game of hide and seek, as a murder of an old family retainer would cause Elspeth to run away in search of the truth of her familys and fiances  betrayals.  Elspeths father would hire Niall to chase down and bring his daughter, Elspeth home as she would lead Niall on a merry chase thru brothels, gypsy camps and numerous other adventures.<br />Elspeth is written as a very strong lead betrothed to George, a childhood friend who shes known forever and  at least loves her.  She had lost her innocence and her heart broken by a lovers betrayal some time before so she no longer trusted in love . She wasnt expecting to feel the emotions Niall aroused in her and fought them even as her faith in Georges and her fathers supposed betrayal was fueling her quest for the truth.  Niall, who normally ran from anything or anyone that would cause him involvement couldnt for the life of him run from Elspeth.  The secondary characters, of Nialls shaman valet, and others met along the way make this an engrossing and robust  adventure.  It was also a very sensual and enjoyable read that I can heartily recommend.can heartily recommend.	2003-06-23
1079845:US	45284807	R215Q78GD9LIAN	0380760959	555586763	Tiger Dance	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Very Physical Love Story	Lorna Fairchild had traveled to the exotic island of Kali Simpang, in the hope of locating her missing father.  His last missives home had her terribly worried by the change in tone, and then, the official notice that he had gone missing.  Arriving on the tropic island, her very first night she her traveling companion Ilse, would injure herself.  Having lost their guide, Lorna sought aid and was assisted by none other than the very handsome and dashing Ross St. James. The two would find instant attraction to one another even though Ross would have to lay aside the guilt he kept torturing himself with over the loss of his wife and infant son.  The two would intiate an adventure of unknown and unbelievable dangers both in the quest for the mysterious disappearance of Lorna's father, and the exotic jungles containing a myriad of unrelenting hazards from the animals, plants, and cannibals.<br />This book, in spite of the adventures of the journey through the jungles, was also intensely sensual, in that unlike some romances where the passion and attraction is normally built up slowly, this one was extremely quick and very honest.  Ross' attraction to Lorna was extremely passionate in nature and though he made no promises of any kind of a future with her, he found it unbelievably hard to stay away and it was a very physical relationship.  The story was very real in intensity, and the rigors of traveling through a rain forest were brought intensely alive and felt by the reader.  Romantic, it was not, but a love story nonetheless and an interesting plot.	2003-06-21
1084035:US	45284807	RPQ57UB1799YV	0380751704	753969798	Shadow of Splendor	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Early Colonial American Romance	It was bad enough traveling for the last seven weeks across the Atlantic in 1744 on her way to be married to a stranger, but now waiting for three hours on the Boston dock with no one there to greet her, Lady Rosanne Mallory, between being scared to death, alone in a foreign country, was now becoming quite furious.  Finally, a deep melodious voice called her name and when her eyes met the man, handsome and more than she had ever expected in a groom, she was so relieved.  Only it wouldn't last long, for the man who had come to meet her was not her intended but the nephew of her betrothed. Upon meeting her intended, she was less than pleased, not so much that he was so old, but just a feeling of revulsion that he would look at her so lustily.  Brant Layton, the nephew, didn't know why he should care for the young woman - after all, he had his betrothed waiting for him in Albany, but he felt sorry for the young innocent who would soon belong to the lecherous and vile man he knew his uncle to be.<br />After an aborted attempt to seduce Roseanne before the marriage and then witnessing the uncles perverted debauchery, she overheard plans to lock her up before she could run away before the wedding.  With the help of the uncles abused prostitute, Roseanne escaped and found her way to Brant, the only person she knew who had shown her any kindness.  After seeing the bruises his uncle had inflicted upon Roseanne, Brant decided to help her get away from him, only wondering who would save him from himself and the passionate longings the sight of Roseanne was stirring in him.<br />This was a true adventure as the author carries you along on the early colonial wilderness trail and passionate encounters both Brant and Roseanne encounter along the way to freedom.  The excitement and tension of both the flight and the sexual yearnings the author will take you on are just non-stop from start to finish.  Brant, tries his best to remain aloof and honor bound to keep to his commitment to his betrothed, a woman he can no longer dredge up from memory, as his thoughts, so carnal in nature are  so focused on the very innocent and beautiful Roseanne.  The pages will fly as they travel to a new land and then try to carve a life out of the dangerous wilderness of colonial America and you will positively squirm as the two succumb to the inevitable sensual conclusion fighting to remain together as danger and treacherous enemies abound to snatch their happiness from them.  This was a super good read, with plenty of excitement and historical background for the romance genre reader and if you have the opportunity to find this out of print novel - do by all means pick it up.o his betrothed, a woman he can no longer dredge up from memory, as his thoughts, so carnal in nature are  so focused on the very innocent and beautiful Roseanne.  The pages will fly as they travel to a new land and then try to carve a life out of the dangerous wilderness of colonial America and you will positively squirm as the two succumb to the inevitable sensual conclusion fighting to remain together as danger and treacherous enemies abound to snatch their happiness from them.  This was a super good read, with plenty of excitement and historical background for the romance genre reader and if you have the opportunity to find this out of print novel - do by all means pick it up.	2003-06-18
1084622:US	45284807	R3LECJ6ZIPBCHP	0380899566	446409782	Heart of the Storm	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Debut Novel	Juliana Pendarvis, was willful, spoiled, and a bit of a hoyden.  The pampered youngest daughter of a country baron, brought up on the Cornwall coast in the year 1764 where smuggling was a necessity for survival and common for even the landlords to condone as a way of feeding tenants who would otherwise starve.  Adam Tremayne, the son of her father's dear friend and an American had come to England to receive an inheritance from his uncle.  On his way to see an old friend it was his misfortune to run into Juliana when she mistakenly thought he was the local viscount she had snuck out to meet.  While their first introduction was most memorable and her brothers covered for her in convincing Adam that she was their younger brother Jim, Adam would be stunned to learn later that the young `tadpole' he'd wrestled in the woods was the very beautiful daughter of his friend.<br />Suffering from a heart ailment, Juliana's father would extract a promise from Adam that he would marry his youngest daughter.  Juliana was furious, but would concede and pretend to go along with the wedding plans - thinking all the while she would elope with her viscount before the wedding took place.  Before that happened though the passion that overtook both Adam and Juliana whenever they were near each other would have her yielding to him the gift of her virginity and subsequent scares of her father's life would leave her no other option than going thru with the marriage.<br />This was an interesting and very passionate novel of two people who were made for one another in passion but both had issues to deal with.  Adam his brashness, and inability to forgive himself for guilt over the deaths of his first wife and child, and Juliana who was just too stubborn to realize that here was the love and heart of her life if she would just grow up and realize what she was getting was much more valuable -the love of a lifetime - than what she thought she was losing - the independence of running wild.<br /> As a debut novel for this author there was a good amount of sensual passion, and the historic background was lush, with some page-turning suspense.  It was a very good read, with lovely descriptions of the period and I can recommend it to those of you who can still locate a good copy of this out of print book.As a debut novel for this author there was a good amount of sensual passion, and the historic background was lush, with some page-turning suspense.  It was a very good read, with lovely descriptions of the period and I can recommend it to those of you who can still locate a good copy of this out of print book.	2003-06-17
1086045:US	45284807	R1U3ATGBK3090A	1558173927	189149859	Scarlet Angel	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Outstanding Historical Sensual Romance	This was another fabulous historical set in the early 1800's during the conflict between  France and England and the Napoleonic struggles.  It is the story of two individuals whose paths would cross as both fought for survival, not knowing that the outcome would forever control their destinies.<br />As a young child of eight years, Gabrielle de Brienne, was the granddaughter of a high placed French diplomat. An inadvertently innocent song she sang to gain her release from the prison where Cam Colburne, Duke of Dyson, and his family was being held was the impetus that caused mob hysteria for more blood letting as executions abounded during those tumultuous times and Cam lost the only family he had ever cared about. He vowed to hunt down both her and her grandfather and make both pay for his loss.<br />Eleven years later having grown up on the run, Gabrielle's sword fighting skills were more comparable to a seasoned fighter than those of a lady of the manor. Her grandfather had at last assumed a position of imminence and Cam, finally saw his opportunity to make them pay.  He would abduct the hoyden, hold her in his Cornwall castle and manipulate her grandfather into betraying France for her release.  As outside forces threatened to expose Cam's activities he would be forced to wed Gabrielle in a marriage of convenience but the more he came to observe her the more he would want than just the 'sham' of a marriage. Cam and Gabrielle would each fight unwanted attractions and their individual childhood terrors.  The more Gabrielle learned of Cam from his devoted servants the more she fought her feelings for her abductor unable to fathom the reason for his hatred of her.  Cam, with a beautiful mistress in the wings, tried to remain aloof and distant from his hoyden duchess but more and more Gabrielle invaded his every waking moment.<br />The love story is beautiful, passionate, and the action fast-paced and exciting.  You are drawn into the period with numerous mentions of actual events and notable persons from that historical era.  Thornton writes stunning visual imagery and wonderful sensual romance in this superb read for an out of print and hard to find novel! One can always hope that as more and more of Thornton's novels get reissued this will be on the list!actual events and notable persons from that historical era.  Thornton writes stunning visual imagery and wonderful sensual romance in this superb read for an out of print and hard to find novel! One can always hope that as more and more of Thornton's novels get reissued this will be on the list!	2003-06-16
1089137:US	45284807	R1G628Y3A4JQ0A	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Powerfully Emotional	FLOWERS FROM THE STORM is a very serious novel which is difficult to categorize as it is more than just a romance - in fact, the romance while it does become touching is almost secondary to the plot which takes place sometime during the 1800's.  While extremely powerful, I found this was not a very relaxing read which at times left me very disturbed over the inhumanity that oftentimes is visited upon the sick and defenseless.<br /><br />Christian Langland, the Duke of Jervaulx, is the hero of this book.  A self-indulgent rogue, handsome, rich, powerful yet is also a brilliant mathematician. The heroine, Maddy, a Quaker, is the daughter of a blind professor of mathematics living simply in the Quaker way of life.  As the two mathematicians work together to produce a paper on a new mathematical theorem, Maddy as her father's assistant and eyes would come in contact with the dissolute duke, despising his lifestyle so different from the devout Quaker. The day after the two co-authors presented their paper to academia, Maddy would hear that the duke had been killed in a duel.<br />Some time later Maddy and her father would come to live on an estate converted to a hospital of sorts, better known as an insane asylum for the very wealthy.  Her cousin offers a position to Maddy in return for her help as a nursing assistant.  It was here that she would come to realize that the duke was in fact alive banished by his family unable to speak, and  thought to be mad.  Because of the inability to communicate Jervaulx's frustration was exhibited in anger, thus these patients were thought to be mad, dangerous and treated little better than animals.  Not only was the sickness miss-diagnosed, but his greedy relatives were attempting to have him declared insane in order to take over his fortune. This entire aspect of the book was heart-wrenching to say the least - including the abuse that so-called care-takers were heaping upon him.<br />Maddy recognized him and saw that there was intelligence in his gaze and that he was not insane.  She came to understand that it was his inability to communicate that sparked his anger.  While she was initially afraid of him, she slowly began to help him to remain calm and effected changes that brought him some measure of peace and soon as her cousin saw her calming affect on him had her assigned to his day-care.  As the competency hearing approached, and he along with Maddy to calm him, were  transported to the city, she began to realize that if he were sent back to the asylum he would never leave it.  Through some harrowing events, they would both escape the doctors, and his family and find their way to one of Christian's friends.  Eventually, the friends were able to convince Maddy that only by marrying him would they be able to override his family in the ultimate decision regarding his care.<br />This was an absolutely heart-wrenching story as Maddy and Jervaulx tried to prove that he was sane, just couldn't communicate - but the ignorance of the powers to be couldn't be brought around as his family tried to have him being declared insane. Christian's strength was remarkable as he battled his way out of the haze of a debilitating stroke. He was a marvelous hero and one has to admire his strength.  Maddy was a different matter as she was so into her religion that she wouldn't admit to the feelings she had for a man of the `world'.  She was in some respects an angel of mercy for Christian, but she held so much emotion back from him and from herself that she caused even more agony for them both.<br />I would have given this a much higher rating if there was more romance to it, but it was so heart-breaking through the majority of this 550 page book that when they finally came to the romantic and very sensual part (one must remember that he was a rake before the stroke) I felt too drained to enjoy it.  I have to say that this is a powerful book - extremely emotional in its scope and an excellent read for the authorto have the ability to cause the reader to feel so caught up in the story.r to have the ability to cause the reader to feel so caught up in the story.	2003-06-13
1090502:US	45284807	R143TJB9M3SW76	0380817438	645876548	Love with a Scandalous Lord (Daughters of Fortune)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Positively Sensual	1879 England and Lydia Westland, blonde haired, violet-eyed step-daughter to Grayson Rhodes was on her way to living her most fervent dream - well at least part of it anyway.  She was riding in the most splendid crimson coach with a ducal crest on the door as if this were an everyday occurrence.  In spite of the gravity of the summons to travel swiftly to the bedside of her step-fathers dying sire, she hoped to absorb as much of the glitter, pomp and circumstance of Britain as she could - hopefully she could even convince her parents to let her stay and accompany her cousin for the London `season' before returning to America.  Armed with Miss Westland's Blunders in Behavior Corrected she carefully studied the different forms of address of the nobility she dreamed she would soon be meeting.<br />Though the welcome when they arrived was less than warm, Lydia could not but be impressed upon meeting the Marquess of Blackhurst, Rhys Rhoades. Though he projected the cool and imperturbable commanding stance of the upper class nobility, the beautiful young American more than stunned Rhys.  Her innocence was palatable and though he desperately yearned to possess her he knew his sins would forever prevent him from having the thing he yearned for most - the love of this innocent young woman. He would do his best, while dying inside to see that she had her hearts desire of a season in London, even if it meant making a `pact with the devil' to ensure her success thus keeping her from him forever.<br /> I must agree with the statement, `this author will steal your heart' and this particular story will cement that thought in your mind as you read Rhys and Lydia's powerful love story. Lydia's innocence, her strength and fortitude, and her blind faith in Rhys and in knowing her own heart would be instrumental to heal the pain and anguish that tormented Rhys.  Expect the most beautiful imagery and prose, and oh yes, be prepared to shed some tears in this divine love story - sit back and enjoy! Positively sensual and oh so sweet!and enjoy! Positively sensual and oh so sweet!	2003-06-12
1091973:US	45284807	RHCG5SRSQDRRN	0060526203	392679529	Kiss Me Quick (Kiss Me Series, Book 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun Regency	She spotted him across a crowded room.....and so the story goes. -- Lady Diana Westover, daughter of a duke, had lived a sheltered life with her reclusive father on a remote estate.  While her upbringing was unusual, it did not lack warmth or love, and along with her father, she developed a love of books.  It was also her greatest desire to one-day write a novel that could be published.  It was towards that purpose that she studied the darkly handsome and suave Edmond Terrington, Viscount Adderley - as she needed a model for the villain in the novel she was writing and if the gossips were correct the Viscount purported to be a womanizer and rake of the first order would certainly fill the bill.<br />Edmond, feeling the hairs stand up on the back of his neck sensed he was being spied upon, only to turn and see across the room, the Lady Diana's brilliant and expressive eyes focused on him.  From this auspicious beginning, it would be fate that would lead their paths to cross, again and again at which time the very outspoken and intelligent Lady Diana, would best Edmond in some absolutely outrageous conversations that were making him stand up and take notice of this most unusual young woman - a woman who neither swooned, nor simpered, and faced him head on.  Each meeting became more and more enlightening and Edmond began to realize that here was a woman who was not swooning over his handsomeness but was seeing in him her very own kindred spirit.<br />This was my very first novel by this author and I LOVED it!  It was such an unusual romance with a damsel who was not noted for her beauty, but very outspoken and extremely intelligent.  I don't know when I've enjoyed a heroine more - so very forthright who said EXACTLY what was on her mind and when faced with a predicament that would have most young ladies running scared, she approached her love and demanded an explanation rather than accept the innuendos of people out to discredit him. This had to be one of the most intelligent regency romances I have read in a very long time.  Bravo, Ms. Moore - I will be looking forward to reading more from you - hopefully Edmond's friend Brix's story!ntelligent regency romances I have read in a very long time.   Bravo, Ms. Moore - I will be looking forward to reading more from you - hopefully Edmond's friend Brix's story!	2003-06-11
1092326:US	45284807	R2M84YDUEJ8AUB	0380819090	235379681	A Necessary Bride	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Amusing Regency With a Little Mystery	The heroine Meg Stanton-Lynch is a transplanted American - granddaughter of a Duke, and of course not having been brought up within the pompous strictures of the English nobility did not know at first that the divinely handsome guest at her cousins wedding was so taboo!  She saw only that no one seemed to be speaking or associating with him so she took it upon herself to act as a one-woman welcoming committee.<br />Justin St. James, knew at once that this bright, beautiful and friendly young woman was running the risk of ruining her reputation by her innocent overtures of friendship towards him.  He knew she did not know of his reputation which was why he kept telling her that she shouldn't be seen associating with him.  Of course the more he tried to remove himself from her sphere the more the stubborn Miss would close in.  He was known as the `devil earl' unjustly accused of murder and banished by society and his own family for six years.  He had returned, at the demise of his uncle and cousin, to inherit an earldom, guardianship of his young ward Emily, and also to try to find the person who had committed a murder that he had been accused of.  Nothing however had prepared him for the unrelenting attraction for this very `cheeky' young beautiful American.<br />Other than wanting to slap the heroine silly for acting like such a ninny, I did enjoy this amusing romance.  What I could not condone though, were the half-baked protests of the heroine after she `gave' her innocence to Justin and would not marry him. They were too far-fetched and belabored for my tastes.  Justin, on the other hand was a superbly drawn out hero.  He was strong, yet vulnerable when he was so shaken over his inability to understand or be able to remedy his relationship with his ward Emily.  He was also quite honorable and extremely patient with Meg's inability to understand the chaos she was creating by not accepting Justin's marriage proposal. The numerous secondary characters all blended in well and a couple were possibly introduced to be featured in their own stories down the road, especially the young ward Emily.  The sensuality was extremely pleasant and very well done - definitely this is worth a recommended `to be read' spot on your lists.ed in well and a couple were possibly introduced to be featured in their own stories down the road, especially the young ward Emily.   The sensuality was extremely pleasant and very well done - definitely this is worth a recommended `to be read' spot on your lists.	2003-06-11
1093578:US	45284807	R2V4ZYSVGFY7JX	0446611263	529620892	My Hero (Warner Forever)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Pretty Good Read	Holly Hicks, transplanted from Texas to New York city, by way of numerous mid-west stops was finally given the chance she'd waited a lifetime for - her first shot at producing a piece for VIP television.  The only problem it seemed was that the documentary was to be about real-life heroes and she'd have to go back to Texas to dig up the information she needed as well as meet up with her assignment - the man - the hero - Cal Griffin.  It wasn't as if she didn't want this opportunity - but number one - she didn't `believe' in heroes and number two - she swore she'd never go back to Texas!<br />Cal Griffin, his one claim to fame - he took the bullet meant to end the President of the United States life, and in the end the bullet, knocked him out of commission from a career he loved.  Bad enough he had that to deal with, but now he had some snooty over-achiever female producer coming to pry into his private life, and he was expected to pick her up at the airport.  Both these individuals skeptically were expecting the worst and would both find that they couldn't be more wrong as they discovered the real meaning of what a hero really was, and that dreams are better when shared.<br />I really enjoyed this book; the pace was not fast but comfortably lazy like a hot Texas afternoon. What was interesting was the awakening of Holly's preconceived notion of what a hero really was - not the split second decision of throwing yourself in front the man you're sworn to protect but the struggle to overcome and throw yourself back into life.  Cal was about ready to throw in the towel until Holly hit town and this was an interesting aspect to have a flawed hero who showed some physical weaknesses.  As a lighthearted romance - I really liked the fact that for the most part, both were honest and forthright with what they were feeling.  It was a nice story - somewhat a little slow with the romantic overtures but still a pretty good read.	2003-06-10
1096500:US	45284807	R8ZFGERZDX2AV	0373227140	651203647	Attempted Matrimony  (Hidden Passions)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spine Tingling Suspense	Nicole Dalton, daughter of the once very powerful Senator Gerald Dalton, was married to the prominent surgeon, Dr. Malcom Lancaster - to all intents and purposes, the perfect storybook romance, perfect marriage, honeymoon, etc....Although, the romance might be gone 10 months after the marriage, her vows were still sacred to her. But as a vicious serial murderer plied his trade in and around the Shreveport, Louisiana area, she would come face to face with the man who broke her heart 9 years prior.  Dallas Mitchell, handsome, sexy, rebel without a cause still had the stuff to make her heart beat faster - though she'd never do a thing about it.<br />Dallas Mitchell, was a detective trying to track down the worst serial killer in Louisiana history, but her voice, her perfume and the way she moved still affected Dallas as much now as it did back then, when he knew he was never good enough for the likes of her.  Even though he'd run and hurt her back then, he knew that as he followed new leads which put her husband as one of his top suspects - he'd do all in his power to save her from being hurt or worse `the next victim' in a race against time and a madman!<br />This was a spine tingling, fast paced and very suspenseful novel as my very first introduction to this author's work.  I admit that it was quite enjoyable even if the stress (I really get involved when I'm reading) raised my blood pressure!  Enough contemporary books written as well as this one and I may be tempted to sprinkle more contemporary reads into and along with my first love of historicals.  This book is definitely worth the read!	2003-06-07
1098083:US	45284807	R2E9EPNZQT0PMQ	0821726544	309713571	Fallen Angel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Thoroughly Engrossing Read	Deveryn - it was a name that Madeleina (Maddy) Sinclair would hate forever. It was the name of the man who had cuckolded her father's young wife and disgraced him to the point that he took his own life. Through blinding tears she raced through the moors to find her childhood friend Malcolm and spotting the back of his golden head blindly rushed into his arms.  Jason Verney, Viscount Deveryn did not know who this strange tiny force was that clung to him so forcefully but he did know that she felt wonderful and the sweet little lips were too much of a temptation not to kiss.  To this unorthodox beginning would herald their tempestuous relationship.  Deveryn, who was a known reprobate, whose fickleness with ladies and light skirts was renowned in the fashionable ton circles, had never been in love, nor did he ever expect to find it in Inverness, Scotland of all places.  But he was so taken with the spirited minx that rushed into his arms and begged to be kissed that he knew at once that she was to be his forevermore.<br />Maddy felt the same for this golden man.  Jason Verney was his name and even in those first moments, a stranger and knowing she shouldn't be with him, she felt it was right - until a stableboy came in to call for Lord Deveryn.  The name struck terror in her heart that this might be the man she had sworn revenge upon for her father's disgrace.  The battle in her heart was monumental as she tried to deny her love for the man they referred to as the `fallen angel'.<br />Oftentimes, it is hard to be objective, particularly when the hero in a novel is such a possessive, arrogant `brat'!  It is coup for the author though that can elicit such a response from the reader on the strength of her writing.  If it were not for the fact that Jason truly was in love with Maddy you would really despise his arrogant possessiveness that bordered on cruelty.  Maddy on the other hand, waffled from sensual passion to guilt over the betrayal she thought she was doing to her father's memory.  Suffice it to say, the relationship was complex and the reader will be thoroughly immersed in this stormy battle of the sexes as love will overcome all obstacles.  There is a tremendous amount of historical references sprinkled throughout this novel which I found to be a thoroughly engrossing read and it is quite a sensual read as well though not for the timid who may be shocked by scenes that could be construed as rape.er father's memory.  Suffice it to say, the relationship was complex and the reader will be thoroughly immersed in this stormy battle of the sexes as love will overcome all obstacles.   There is a tremendous amount of historical references sprinkled throughout this novel which I found to be a thoroughly engrossing read and it is quite a sensual read as well though not for the timid who may be shocked by scenes that could be construed as rape.	2003-06-06
1098825:US	45284807	R1HKTNW1WJZ8PX	0553581171	739077011	Strangers at Dawn	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thrilling Passionate Regency Romance	The opening pages of this romantic intrigue has the heiress Sara Carstairs, appearing to the public as a demure, respectable beautiful young girl, on trial for the murder of her sisters husband. Public opinion had her condemned as not only a cold-blooded murderess but as a scarlet woman whose sexual appetite was legendary.  Max Worthe, Lord Maxwell, owner of The Courier was mesmerized by her cool, unattached demeanor so that when the verdict came down as not guilty and she was acquitted of the crime,  he was bound and determined to uncover the truth.  The fact that Sara, quickly disappeared after the trial did not daunt Max as over the next three years, he would continually run pieces re-hashing the crime as the deceaseds father would increase the reward for any information leading to his sons body.<br />Now, three years later, after living in obscurity, Sara is being taunted with threatening notes and she is on her way back home, where she plans to marry and break the trust she holds to distribute the funds to her family. She then plans to go to America to start a new life.  Whether accident or providence, in attempting a midnight tryst, Max would stumble onto Sara and the instantaneous attraction would leave him totally shaken.  Not until later would Max realize that the beautiful woman who haunted his dreams was the woman he labeled a cold-blooded killer, or would he discover that she was truly an innocent, protecting someone dear to her.<br />This very passionate romantic intrigue has become the trademark of this outstanding author. She couples very strong lead characters together with edge of the seat nail biting suspense as the reader tries to determine who did what to whom!  The pages will fly and the book hard to put down as the characters are revealed layer by layer, and the twists and turns of the plot become as exhilarating as the burgeoning sensual romance.  This should definitely be on everyones read list!	2003-06-05
1100660:US	45284807	R3716BJ4HRJBIR	0821774263	517322283	Highland Angel (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Serious Plot - Great Story with Humor	This book impressed me from the very first pages, as a very charming and spunky, Kirstie MacIye, bargains with Sir Payton Murray for his assistance.  Kirstie needed a champion in bringing to justice the husband who tried to drown her, and was abusing small children to satisfy his sick obsessions.  Sir Payton was renowned for his prowess  with a sword both on the battlefield and in the boudoirs of the numerous woman who sought out the very handsome knight, but Kirstie needed him to accept the bigger challenge of bringing her husband to justice.  Risking an all out feud between clans, Payton takes on the challenge of both toppling a powerful and evil laird and bedding the very captivating and beautiful Kirstie.<br />I don't know when I've enjoyed a heroine as much as the very spunky Kirstie.  Her droll sense of humor and cutting edge tongue gives you terrific dialogs with bantering back and forth as Payton does his best to seduce her while the dangerous game of cat and mouse intensified in trying to take down her husband.  The romantic aspect and the sensualness of the chase was exquisitely done as Kirstie and Payton fell in love, not so much with the attractiveness of each others physical being but more with the essence they discovered of each others heart and soul.  The secondary characterizations of the children were also deftly handled from the anguish and shame felt by the abuse of their innocence, to the healing and renewal of trust Kirstie and Payton were able instill.  The author seemed to open up many avenues for sequels with some of the children - especially Callum and Simon which I would certainly welcome.<br />All in all, I found this to be an extremely enjoyable, funny, and sensual novel in spite of the serious plot.  This was for me a total read and one I can highly recommend.	2003-06-04
1103313:US	45284807	R18XGRHKFCIC18	0060092963	335136420	Adventures of a Scottish Heiress (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Nice Regency	London and Scotland in the year 1816 is where this very lively tale by Cathy Maxwell takes place.  It tells the story of Ian Campion, an Irishman who supports his two widowed sisters, nephews, and niece by whatever means he can, lately by bare fisted fighting for money.  He is approached by one of the wealthiest men in England, Dunmore Pirate Harrell with an offer he cannot refuse, namely to find his daughter Lyssa, whom he thinks has been kidnapped, even though no ransom has been requested. After being introduced to Viscount Gorssett, the man Dunmore had betrothed Alyssa  to, Ian believes she ran away from home to elude her snobbish fianc&eacute;.<br />Lyssa is a rather spunky lead character, who has effected her own escape by hiring a family of  gypsies to escort her to Scotland, and the ancestral home of her deceased mother. Ian catches up with Lyssa, and her band of gypsies who he quickly routs out for the imposters that they are, but before he can return with her, ruffians attempt an ambush kill her. During Ian and Lyssas flight, they overhear the leader speaking and know that the road back to London will be watched so, Ian agrees to travel in the opposite direction of the road to London and complete her trip to bring her to Scotland.  Along the way, the pampered wealthy heiress learns a few lessons of survival, human dignity and love, from the Irishman sent to bring her home.<br />This delightful Regency romance has two very likeable lead characters, who discover true love along the way.  The chase through the countryside was not without the authors characteristic enjoyable dialog and sensual awakenings to new love. Toss in a little excitement of the chase, suspenseful escapes and fights and you have a wonderfully enjoyable read for a rainy afternoon!  This has it all and I most definitely recommend this for fans of this genre.	2003-06-02
1104617:US	45284807	R265XPT8ZGASP	0821773887	320436456	Velvet Is The Night	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Nobody Does It Better!	The second novel of the Deveraux trilogy chronicles the life of the eldest daughter Claire Deveraux during the height of the French Revolution in 1773.  She knows the look of a man, and though a maiden, is ready to sacrifice herself for the sake of her siblings, Zoe and Leon.  Though the reputation of the man in question, Deputy of Rouen, Phillipe Duhet, is horrifying and the mere sight of him makes her skin crawl, she would do anything, sacrifice anything to save her family from the guillotine. Unbeknownst to Claire is that the bargain made with Phillipe Duhet, and the man who returned seemingly to her mind to collect, was not the same Phillipe but his look-alike half brother, an American spy, Adam Dillon.  Adam took on the role as part of an elaborate scheme to help French citizens avoid the guillotine, and escape to America, but more than that it would be payback for the abuse Adam had suffered at the hands of his step-brother.  Adam, walked in cold to assume his brother's identity and found more than he bargained for - none other than a beautiful woman that he had admired but could not approach as he waited his chance to affect the switch.  Finding Claire ensconced in his brother's house and knowing of his cruel nature, he assumed she was his mistress so he acted out the way he knew his cruel brother would.  To show any kind of concern would have been totally out of character and dangerous for the lives of those he proposed to save. The bigger question was, who would save him from the dangerous feelings of caring and love he felt for Claire should he slip and let go of the faade of cruelty he needed to portray.<br />I am amazed that other people who have reviewed this novel - just don't seem to get it! Yes there are scenes of rape and violent behavior, and if you are fainthearted, then this book is not for you.  The story was exciting, set in the middle of the turbulence that was France during the period when neighbor turned against neighbor at the drop of a hat.  The romance was there, because in spite of the forced lovemaking, Claire knew that there was something different and good about this Phillipe.  The abandonment, the cruelties, and the forgiveness are all essential parts of this wonderful `historical' romance.  Without these elements the story would be flat - but this outstanding author has pulled it all together to give you a fast paced, exciting and deeply sensual novel of excitement, love, lust, and forgiveness in a style that is all her own.  Bravo Ms. Thornton!hat.  The romance was there, because in spite of the forced lovemaking, Claire knew that there was something different and good about this Phillipe.  The abandonment, the cruelties, and the forgiveness are all essential parts of this wonderful `historical' romance.  Without these elements the story would be flat - but this outstanding author has pulled it all together to give you a fast paced, exciting and deeply sensual novel of excitement, love, lust, and forgiveness in a style that is all her own.  Bravo Ms. Thornton!	2003-05-31
1107330:US	45284807	R3CUQ7E58DBDO1	0821773852	496637974	Tender the Storm (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Sweeping Historical Romance of Wartorn France	TENDER THE STORM is the first novel of a trilogy by Thornton dealing with three siblings of the Devereux family during the tumultuous revolutionary period in the history of France. This was Zoe's story, the youngest daughter, though 17 because of her diminutive size she was able to pose as a schoolgirl of thirteen. Together, with a man she knew only as Rolphe, they fled across wartorn France to England. She was whisked away to a safe house with other French immigrants. Weeks later she would meet up with Rolphe again as he discovers that the 'child' he rescued was really a very beautiful young lady - only in his mind, he still saw her as the child. The attraction is there, and thinking to save her from the London streets Rolphe, Marquess of Rivard, makes her his wife, in name only, then abandoned her to his country estate and a less than enthusiastic mother-in-law. Zoe did her best, to live up to the role, as she was in love with her husband and the ideal she had painted of him as her stalwart rescuer.<br />After an unfortunate incident of mistaken identities, a heart broken Zoe, takes the initiative and returns to France to nurse her broken heart, whereupon she divorces Rolphe and blossoms into the toast of the new French society. In the meantime, Rolphe has survived an assassination attempt and it is months before anyone tells him that she's left him.<br />Underneath the romance, in which Rolph proves to be a real 'jackass' (not having a clue as to what ails his wife) there are the undercurrents of the espionage, secret societies, treachery, and greed which is brilliantly portrayed by this amazing author. If I were to rate this book based on liking the hero who simply acted like a 'man' - clueless in terms of recognizing what was going on in his life - yes I would not like this. Instead I see a sweeping novel with a slice of real history and a romance that took some time to come to it's enviable and sensual conclusion. I was not disappointed. I loved the rich characterizations of the players in this story and look forward to the next book in this trilogy.acterizations of the players in this story and look forward to the next book in this trilogy.	2003-05-29
1110173:US	45284807	R2ME9K40QCEM79	0060527048	585986262	To Marry the Duke	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Outstandingly Refreshing	London, 1881 -Miss Sophia Wilson, beautiful, intelligent, wealthy, and in search of a title was being presented by the Countess of Lansdowne, another transplanted American, to the English aristocracy.  The English aristocracy that had much in the way of titles but dwindling wealth to support the oftentimes-decaying estates where vast land acreage no longer supported the required upkeep. Feeling as though she had jumped from the frying pan into the fire, Sophia was determined to marry for love, no matter what title her dear mama would try to force upon her.  As fate would have it, across the crowded room, a hush fell, a body moved, and Sophia gazed upon a work of art - the most devastatingly handsome man, His Grace, the Duke of Wentworth.  The whispers began again, with Sophia hearing  `dangerous duke', nightmare, heartbreaker, stay away etc.<br />James, the Duke of Wentworth, had vowed to never marry, to control his baser instincts, and dark passionate nature inherited from his ancestors that would drag him into a dark inhuman hell on earth. Keeping to himself as he did, he could not but be impressed by the very stunning, vivacious, and `wealthy' American and as Sophia glanced up and caught his gaze their eyes met and locked in titillating moment of acknowledgement.  And so the die was cast....<br />This was my introduction to one of the finest books I have had the pleasure to read this year.  The very sensual layers of imagery laid the foundation of what would become one of the more pleasurable love stories I have read with refreshingly bright, intelligent and original dialogs. I started smiling from the very first chapter and thoroughly enjoyed the courtship.  Soon enough the honeymoon was over and when James reverted to a `beastly' cool English peer of the realm, Sophia continued to love him and had her work cut out to act the part of his `Duchess' but in her own estimable way, and perseverance she brought him, and his family, back from darkness into a world of light and love!  This was a truly outstanding romance and one I can highly recommend.  Do keep your tissues handy when you get toward the very moving and sensual ending!light and love!  This was a truly outstanding romance and one I can highly recommend.  Do keep your tissues handy when you get toward the very moving and sensual ending!	2003-05-27
1110541:US	45284807	R1BJW4RKMAX24U	0061014303	528816370	Enchanted By Your Kisses	Books	5	6	10	N	N	I'm totally Enchanted by this Author!	In 1781 England, Lady Ariel D'Archer trusted and thought Lord Archibald Worth (Archie) loved her and they would be married, but naively, she found out later that he would tell her anything  for one reason only.  She would agree to meet Archie at an inn - before the wedding - but before the physical act could be completed they would be caught in bed together by Ariel's father. The cad, Archie never did come forth to offer her marriage, instead a month later he married another. Ariel was ruined.  Two years later her very kind and loving cousin Phoebe would not believe that she could still be shunned. So, against her better judgment, Ariel agreed to attend a ball with her. Ariel should have listened to herself as her appearance showed her that the ton had not forgotten her ruin and was just as unforgiving as it was two years previous - it did indeed have a long memory.<br /><br />Nathan Trevain was searching for his missing brother. He had been betrayed by love before and trusted no woman.  He didn't let his conscience bother him when he decided to use Ariel in a plan to discover information to his brothers whereabouts. As the heir to the Dukedom of Davenport, he proposed a scheme to Ariel to `as a friend' to help Ariel thumb her nose at the ton by pretending to be his fianc&eacute;. His real purpose was to use her to gain access to her father, a high ranking British admiral's private papers.  Ariel soon loses her closely guarded heart to him only to discover his duplicity.  How could she be so wrong in love again?<br />ENCHANTED BY YOUR KISSES was such a fast-paced action packed and totally emotional Georgian romance that I could not put the book down until I finished it!  Ariel was a totally sympathetic heroine to which I found myself so immersed in her heartaches that I was in tears several times during the story.  This was one of the most emotionally powerful romances I have read in quite a while as the author deftly shows the pain inflicted by the ton's hypocrisy towards the female while the male ends up looking like a hero! So unfair but so true!  Nathan, granted had been betrayed himself so he could not trust her and was not a very sympathetic character at all in the beginning.  The bantering dialogs and the sallies back and forth were fresh and wonderful as well as the solid and strong character development of the secondary characters.  Total enjoyment for this authors works from MY FALLEN ANGEL  to SEDUCED has proven that  Pamela Britton is an author who has become an automatic buy for me.s the female while the male ends up looking like a hero! So unfair but so true!  Nathan, granted had been betrayed himself so he could not trust her and was not a very sympathetic character at all in the beginning.  The bantering dialogs and the sallies back and forth were fresh and wonderful as well as the solid and strong character development of the secondary characters.   Total enjoyment for this authors works from MY FALLEN ANGEL  to SEDUCED has proven that  Pamela Britton is an author who has become an automatic buy for me.	2003-05-27
1124667:US	45284807	R1HIYGQZYXP4QV	0061014311	492894958	My Fallen Angel	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Simply Delightful	Our hero, Garrick Asquith-Wolf, loved his life - born to wealth his hobby was battling pirates on the high seas until one fateful battle cost him his life. In order to gain his place in heaven, he is sent back to earth to complete a task, but with provisions that this legendary `Wolf' not practice fornication (for which he is legendary) of any kind lest he lose his soul and go straight to hell.  His task was to help Miss Lucy Hartford prove the heritage of a young orphan child she had adopted from the London slums.  The task was made all the harder by the almost fatal attraction and astonishing passion he felt for Miss Lucy - an attraction that was so hot it might have sent his soul in the opposite direction.<br />I had read the sequel to this book (Seduced) first and liked it so well I had to find out what went on before.  Lucy Hartford, the heroine, was a hoot! I've seen the device used before when you take a beautiful young woman and turn them into a complete `klutz' but this author had me laughing so hard at some of her schemes gone wrong that I was gasping for breath, and the fact that she was a red head had me visualizing a zany Lucille Ball.  The secondary characters of her friend Beth, Aunt Caroline, and the orphan Tom were absolutely wonderful and were used brilliantly for foils in outstandingly funny dialogs. Garrick, in his attempts to ignore her were also quite comical, as well as his conversations with the guardian angel that was assigned to make sure he followed the rules of his task.  Lucy's attempts to make Garrick fall in love with her and their adventures on the high seas were both exhilarating and exciting.  This was one of those books you will find extremely hard to put down and also, I might add, to find.  My suggestion to you dear readers is that if you have an opportunity to lay your hands on a copy of this out of print book grab it as quick as you can and run for an easy chair to immerse yourself in a dynamite read!	2003-05-14
1128381:US	45284807	R15IT6CSHAR33T	0060008121	509821651	Into Temptation	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Engaging Regency Romp	In this third book of the series of the three boyhood friends, Brave, Gabriel and Julian we have Julian's story set in the same period of 1819 England.  This one had a similar theme from Gabriel's story in that both of these men had loved and lost the heroines in their younger days through acts of misinterpreted betrayals and/or misunderstandings.  To start this story, Earl Julian Rexley learns his sister Letitia was not where he was planning to find her to escort her to London for a season she did not want.  In fact he would learn that she was at the home of Lady Sophia Morelle, a woman he hated and despised. A woman from his past that years ago he believed had set him out to trap him into marriage by staging a compromising situation where they would be discovered. Julian, felt she was only interested in his title and money and when approached by her father he refused to wed her.  Facing a huge scandal Sophia's father then arranged for her to marry an older man with a loftier title and much more wealth less than a month later.  The details of that union would be unknown to Julian until much later, but he would use that knowledge to convince himself that she was a greedy calculating witch.  Soon after that he would write a poem of love and betrayal about Sophia that would launch his career as a leading poet.<br />Sophia, felt even more betrayal and returns his sentiment and she herself, wrote a scathing book modeled after him.  Still, she has formed a very real friendship for his sister Letitia and Julian's sister has found a champion in Sophia who commiserates with her that Julian is acting like a bossy beast who only wants to control his sisters every move.  Julian arrives at Sophia's, now a widow, insisting that Letitia leave with him, but she refuses unless he allows Sophia to accompany her as her companion.  Sophia refuses, until her wicked brother-in-law attempts to force himself on her. Julian  not only saves her from rape but realizes she was frightened of Charles and was not his lover as Charles tried to let Julian think. Julian also begins to wonder why the dowager Marchioness seems to be living in near poverty.<br />This was a very emotional love story - so very many missed opportunities because of youthful pride.  The lead characters were wonderful - both so similar in that they were both published - he as a poet and she as an author.  I truly enjoyed their story and was deeply moved to tears towards the end.  What I felt held this back from a higher rating was the lack of closure to the storyline of Sophia's brother-in-law, Charles who figured so prominently in the beginning and was a major catalyst in turning Julian around into a protector for Sophia than the protagonist he was in the beginning. I kept waiting for a retatliation that never came. All things aside, that one fault does not stop me from highly recommending this book as an engaging and highly enjoyable read.f Charles and was not his lover as Charles tried to let Julian think. Julian also begins to wonder why the dowager Marchioness seems to be living in near poverty. <br />This was a very emotional love story - so very many missed opportunities because of youthful pride.  The lead characters were wonderful - both so similar in that they were both published - he as a poet and she as an author.  I truly enjoyed their story and was deeply moved to tears towards the end.  What I felt held this back from a higher rating was the lack of closure to the storyline of Sophia's brother-in-law, Charles who figured so prominently in the beginning and was a major catalyst in turning Julian around into a protector for Sophia than the protagonist he was in the beginning. I kept waiting for a retatliation that never came. All things aside, that one fault does not stop me from highly recommending this book as an engaging and highly enjoyable read.	2003-05-11
1130187:US	45284807	R3NH79SNLNC8JI	0060502266	882567605	A Game of Scandal	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Amusing Regency	The setting is 1818 London, and our hero, Earl Gabriel Warren, has been approached by his very good and older friend Viscount Blaine Underwood to assist him in a delicate matter.  Blaine's son insists that he was cheated at a gambling establishment.  Knowing Gabriel's stance on outlawing gambling Blaine feels that this is something that would benefit Gabriel's political career.  The problem is the name of the club is Mallory's and the woman that Gabriel has loved since he was a young man and never been able to forget is none other than the owner, Lady Lilith Mallory.<br />Ten years prior, they had been madly in love, and had been discovered in a compromising situation. Gabriel had every intention of marrying Lilith, but family circumstances prevented him from going to her immediately and making an offer before her name was bandied about and her reputation ruined.  She disappeared and though Gabe made every effort to find her - he couldn't. Through a total lack of communication ten years later both blame each other for their plight of unrequited love and their being on total opposite sides of the gambling issue leads for even more controversy - including the fact that neither will admit to loving each other.<br />This is turning into such a nice little trilogy - and it certainly does stand alone -  but if you had read the first book (A Seductive Offer) you were introduced to our hero. The story is  both an amusing Regency romance when the lead couple exchange scathingly double entendres that are quite sharp, as well as bring tears to your eyes at the betrayals and the misguided notion of letting pride stand in the way of undying love.  As the author reintroduces friends from her first of this trilogy, she also sets you up for the third book in the series - Into Temptation - that I am quite looking forward too with the hope that it stays as fresh and sensually enticing as this one did.	2003-05-09
1134425:US	45284807	RUBSVQEGPVRDT	0380816113	122023999	A Seductive Offer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	All Elements for a Great Read	This story has all the elements that make a fabulous story! It offers you emotions running the gamut from guilt, forgiveness, sex, and horrific marital abuse that the regency era seemed to overlook in marriages particularly when it came to the husband.<br />Balthazar Wycherley, the earl of Braven, was overcome by guilt over the death of his first love that he felt he had failed to prevent. Stumbling upon his neighbor, Rachel Ashton, who was drowning in a nearby river, he realizes that he may have found the one woman who can help him forgive himself and also who has given him a jolt of sexual awareness - an awareness that his grief had buried for over a year. In order to rescue Rachel and her mother from her brutal stepfather, Sir Henry Westhaver, Brave proposes a marriage of convenience. Rachel accepts, but is devastated when the mother she thinks she is saving decides to give Sir Henry another chance. The very steamy love scenes, and the comical dialogs between Brave, Rachel and his two best friends (who are being set up for the sequels in her next two books) are wonderful. It really is a great book but it didn't make me want to stay up all night to read it as her first \\"Elusive Passion\\" did.	2003-05-05
1136171:US	45284807	RJFR478P6Z2SE	0380816105	623998543	Elusive Passion	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Debut	Varya, gifted pianist and so very elusive and mysterious--- not a bit of scandal touches her which is why - although she `works' for a living and lives extremely well she is accepted and sought after by members of the ton.<br />Miles Christian, the Marquess of Wynter, working undercover is abducted at gunpoint, accused of murder, then knocked out silly -- by a woman who he soon discovers is the elusive Varya.  Although he feels furious towards her she is still the most magnificent creature he has ever seen and she arouses in him feelings he had long since buried after the death of his wife.<br />For Varya, she cannot believe the attraction for the man she believed killed her very best friend.  His very presence is enough for her to throw caution to the wind but more than feelings of betrayal to her dead friend, the fear of discovery of her true identity keeps both of them playing a very dangerous game of cat and mouse as they agree to team up to uncover the murderer.  Caught in a compromising position, Varya reluctantly agrees to `pose' as Miles's mistress in order to continue their investigations even though the ton's fickle delight over her changed dramatically.  Later she would be determined not to relinquish her hard-won independence to a man's desire -- unless she can capture his hardened heart.<br />This novel took off from page one and kept the suspense and excitement right through to the end.  ---  The main characters were very well fleshed out and interesting and I loved the scene where Varya got Miles `plastered' during a card game on vodka. Funny, sensual and with a nice little mystery --- excellent debut novel for an up and coming author.	2003-05-03
1138113:US	45284807	R3MMZ0VQG6CMA6	0380812975	523208550	Untie My Heart	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Truly a DELIGHT	I must say that of all the historical romance books I've read - and believe me there have been plenty - Judith Ivory has come up with some Lulu's!  This was definitely a first as she took a handsome and stuttering Viscount who inherits a vast fortune only to have it tied up in a Victorian type of probate because of an uncle who had him declared dead in an attempt to rob him blind before he could return to England from Russia.  Talk about complicating one's life!  So you think that's not enough of a problem?  Toss in a very lovely, bouncy reformed confidence lady, who is now trying to live an honest life as a sheep farmer but because the Viscount's coach runs over her `only' male sheep - the one who would restore her to some sort of solvency...... well, life does get complicated as Emma tries to recoup her losses.<br />This was a fabulous story, as the new Viscount runs afoul of the very angry Emma Hotchkiss, who again was not your svelte, gorgeous heroine.  The characters were so delightfully different from your normal leads in a romance novel that I had difficulty in putting this one down.  Where I found the previous Ivory novel  \\"Black Silk\\" to be on the slow side - this was a totally different experience with fast action and lots of anticipation for what they were going to do next.  Just the thought of a confidence game taking place in this era was interesting.  Truly, this was a delightful read that I highly recommend.	2003-05-02
1139893:US	45284807	R1EHYA6HZPO56N	0060098538	654096350	Black Silk	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Your Usual Fluffy Romance	For those who are expecting a hot romance, be aware that this is not precisely what you will get even if the sensuality is hot - and it is - just not between our two lead characters until almost the very end. But it does sizzle with passion and a lot of thought provocation as the author dissects the workings of their minds.  Yes, it is good, but not a light bit of fluff.<br />At the center you have Graham Wessit, the notorious Earl of Netham, whose entire life so far has been marred by rumor and scandal.  Pair this up with lovely Submit Channing-Downes who was the proper, obedient wife of an Graham's former guardian and better than 40 years her senior (the marriage was arranged by Submit's father who had illusions of grandeur for his only daughter).  This was not to say that she was not happy or did not love her husband, but as befitted her name, Submit was quite adaptable and was, in her own fashion happy in her marriage. In accordance with her late husbands will - which is central to the theme of this book - Submit is entrusted with delivering a small black box to its rightful owner, Graham Wessit who wants nothing to do with the bequest from the man he holds responsible for his ruin -- or with the bewitching emissary who brings it.<br />There were times during the reading of this novel - I wanted to fling it at the wall at the waste Graham seemed to be making of his life but then you delved deeper and found more to like.  As far as Submit being true to her name though - I have to say I found this to be untrue as a more stubborn heroine I have yet to see - although Graham was definitely not the type of person to be pining for while he was in the midst of his amorous adventures both in and out of court.  It was good - the sex at the end was certainly worth waiting for but overall I have enjoyed this authors other titles much more than this one which was a much slower read for my tastes.	2003-04-30
1140159:US	45284807	R1GJQF1X26S5YO	0515135305	702796064	Catching Midnight	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Absolutely OUTSTANDING Paranormal	In the year 1349, she was 10 years old - hardly a lifetime to know what it was like to be human when Gillian was turned into a upyr. Brought by her sire, Auriclus, to the woods where her body had shape-shifted to her perfect age, he left her to \\"live well and free\\" with others of her breed, the children of midnight, shapeshifting immortals who could run as both wolves and men. After some years spent with the pack of upyr's that were now her only family, she wanted knowledge of humans, her heart yearned for the world beyond.<br />After assuming the guise of a peregrine falcon, hoping to escape her immortal keepers, she inadvertently falls into the hands of Aimery Fitz Clare, a human, second son to a noble house, and a master falconer. Instinctively recognizing Aimery's kindness she is content to stay with him and let him unknowingly guide her back to a human world. It is with Aimery that she discovers more and more the knowledge she needs to be content - to discover that she has a heart and it has been captured by her love of Aimery. For Gilllian and Aimery, to embrace this forbidden romance, they must first survive the perils of her jealous brethren baring their fangs, and his obsessively unbalanced sister-in-law, before they can soar together in a perfect and glorious love.<br />Catching Midnight is a powerfully seductive romance. The raw emotions and the sizzling sex are skillfully woven into a very tender and touching love story. Numerous secondary characters are intertwined within to give you a thrilling page-turner of treacherous betrayals, envy, greed and mentally unbalanced obsessions. The paranormal world of upyr's was a new realm of which I had no prior knowledge, thatI found extremely interesting. I really liked this book and I most definitely recommend it - the pages flew and the sensuality will make your toes curl!	2003-04-30
1143695:US	45284807	RCQFSZ592EIVP	0446611298	227179454	Seduced	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Outstanding  Book and New Author for Me!	I had not read Britton before picking up this copy of \\"Seduced\\" - it is a fact that I am soon to remedy after finishing this wonderful Regency-era romp.  The hero, a purported rake, is the quite charming Lucien St. Aubyn, Duke of Ravenwood who is also dubbed the  Duke of Death - mainly because people close to him tend to die (including his father and brother).  He is also known for debauching innocent young women.<br />Our heroine is the very lovely, Lady Elizabeth Montclair - daughter of an Earl.  One would think that having that lofty title would make her quite eligible but for the fact that her grandfather was made an earl by virtue of a whim of King Edward I who thought he was \\"one fine cobbler\\".  Naturally, title not withstanding, and of low-born birth she is not taken seriously, but has through sheer fortitude composed herself to be above reproach with nary a hint of scandal - which was one of the reasons why Lucien had singled her out to be his next victim - that and the fact that she went out of her way to let people know how much she loathed him. When they're caught together without a chaperone, she's forced to marry him to save her reputation.<br />Yes, we've all read the marriage of convenience theme many times over but this author has contrived to make it all the more memorable for me with intense visual imagery and strong emotional feelings.  She has developed the personalities to a point that you are truly rooting for these two to come to terms with one another and make a go of this marriage.  The dialog is fresh and witty with several instances of deep down belly aching laughs as they constantly bait one another with some pretty outrageous seduction quips and dares, then turns the tables completely to give you tremendous emotional depth -particularly when Lucien is charged with the murder of his older brother and the suspense builds - enough to make you cry.  It is a roller coaster ride by an author I can't wait to read more of.	2003-04-27
1144680:US	45284807	R3P1PAJ74LVXR4	0380812967	239720478	The Indiscretion	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Texan meets up with English Aristocracy!	Historically set at the turn of the 19th century, and the negotiations over the Panama canal this romance will find an audience that loves little tidbits of historical fact thrown in with Ivory's knack for subtle witty dialog as well as rich and interesting characterizations.<br />In a small attempt at asserting some independence, Lydia Bedford-Browne, the delicate daughter of an English viscount, decides to attend her maid's wedding and travel alone across Dartmoor, a vast expanse of barren flatlands, bogs and rocks. Her lone companion on the coach turned out to be a battered and hung-over Texan from America, named Sam Cody.  He had, missed his own wedding for the second time to the same woman - although with a perfectly good excuse that the jilted bride would not hear of - and was on his way back home. The eventful ride across the moors became an adventure when somewhere along the way their inebriated driver fells off the coach, sending it careening into a bog. Luckily for Lydia, Sam is able to save her before the bogg completely sucked the coach down.  Stranded with no compass to show them the way and fog so thick they could not see an arms length in front of them, they found that aside from their `cultural' differences (English stuffiness vs. down home folks), and omitting some real facts from their individual backgrounds, they succumb to a physical attraction before they are eventually rescued.  Lydia, with her aristocratic stiff upper lip realized that her fling was over, and that her `duty' would be to conform to what was expected of her for the love of her family - so, when Sam asked if he might call upon her, she said no!<br />Naturally, as romances go, they do meet up again, as the `job' he glossed over turned into a big surprise for her when he walked into her parents little soiree that was hosting the Prince of England's engagement party!  To say Sam was modest about his background, was putting it mildly, and I wavered back and forth as to whether I even liked Lydia once she had returned to her natural habitat, but all and all, I truly enjoyed the story.  The romance was sweet, the passion was hot, and the characters richly drawn and compelling.  The author, for me so far has seemed to find a niche in the early 1900s with some very interesting stories and I will say I am enjoying her books a lot!ven liked Lydia once she had returned to her natural habitat, but all and all, I truly enjoyed the story.  The romance was sweet, the passion was hot, and the characters richly drawn and compelling.   The author, for me so far has seemed to find a niche in the early 1900s with some very interesting stories and I will say I am enjoying her books a lot!	2003-04-26
1147193:US	45284807	R3O5GWGGR2KPJU	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Simply and Outstanding Love Story	Sometimes there are really special stories...this is one.  I almost tossed this book aside when into the first chapter I figured that this was going to be a take off of \\"Pygmalion\\" or \\"My Fair Lady\\" only with a male lead being the metamorphous, rather than the flower girl turned into a lady.  I am so happy that I persevered and read on, as this story was so very special!  The plot of course is the simple story of a bet made that within six weeks, a genteel woman, Lady Edwina Bollash, and a noted linguist, would take a cheeky, incorrigible, Cornish rat catcher, Mick Tremore cleaning up both his speech and himself, and pass him off as a Viscount at the Duke of Arles ball.<br />What a simply divine story with so many light hearted and touching scenes.  Lady Edwina - nicknamed Winnie by Mick, has never considered herself attractive or loveable.  Her self esteem was basically non-existent in spite of the fact that she did believe herself to be accomplished as both a lady and of course successful in her profession as an instructor in elocution and deportment. What she did not do, was fool herself into believing that she was in any way pretty or attractive. Mick Tremore, outrageous, handsome, cheeky, personable and extremely down to earth - was an absolute delight and while he was initially the student - he also became an instructor as well.<br />There are so many scenes in this story that are memorable - one episode in particular, that was absolutely hilarious - were the negotiations that took place between Edwina and  Mick to shave his mustache off - priceless!  And the dialog as this very earthy and honest man compliments her nose \\"Yes, it's a good-sized smeller, loov. If it weren't so pretty, I might have sympathy for you.\\" - I will say, you have to love Mick - he may not have been born to royalty but in terms of humanness - he is a prince!  When you think of the metamorphous angle of the story, I think the more important one was in the mind-set of Edwina who finally came to the conclusion that in the eyes of the man she came to love - she was beautiful!  This story is simply outstanding with a surprise ending and you should definitely give it a read! I truly enjoyed this book!ame to the conclusion that in the eyes of the man she came to love - she was beautiful!  This story is simply outstanding with a surprise ending and you should definitely give it a read! I truly enjoyed this book!	2003-04-24
1148034:US	45284807	RKU4HJ9REAHE2	0380786443	774233488	Beast (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Story	Somewhere on the Atlantic Ocean 1902 -  This was not your usual historical romance and in the opening chapters you will definitely meet the beast or more accurately Charles Harcourt, Prince de Harcourt. The opening chapters find him acting quite the scoundrel as he informs his sexual partner, the married wife of a French diplomat, that he would be getting married  and that the bride to be was on the same ship - ostensibly on her way, with members of her family, to meet him in Marseilles. Tossed naked out of his stateroom by his paramour, he accidentally witnesses his affianced bride cavorting with one of the ships crew and decides to get to know this little beauty after eavesdropping and hearing himself described in less than glowing terms because of a disfigurement and lameness injury.  Not wanting the very beautiful young Louise Vandermeer, to recognize him, he baits and seduces her letting her think he is an Arab sheik  never letting her see him  always under the cover of darkness.  Unfortunately, Louise falls deeply in love with her phantom lover, and Charles, once he gets to know the real Louise finds himself falling deeply in love.<br />The dilemma of course, is now the 18-year-old Louise is no longer a virgin, and Charles, is too cowardly to admit to being her shipboard lover. Neither of these two are very endearing in the first half of the book  the older Charles acting rather beastly in seducing an 18 year old virgin  even if she was not a sweet girl and somewhat spoiled and vain of her spectacular good looks.  What you do have though is a very spicy and very arousing seduction that is really rather erotic in its own way as the mature Charles unleashes the passions of his technically virgin fianc&eacute;.  As with most romances, all things do work out in the end once Louise makes Charles suffer as she pines for her phantom Arab sheik.  This was a pretty stimulating and amusing read.	2003-04-23
1150686:US	45284807	R3SZ8RS83HNWFA	0380820803	706042167	Confessions of a Scoundrel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Sexy, funny and stimulating	This is another book in the series begun with \\"The Abduction of Julia\\". It centers now around the St. John `talisman ring' which rumor has it that whichever St. John is in possession of the ring will find their one true love. With this novel the ring rests in the pocket of renowned scoundrel Brandon St. John who must decide if it is a blessing ... or a curse as he has yet to find a woman that holds his interest for more than two weeks!<br />Drawing the short straw, so to speak at the latest St. John family gathering Brandon has been assigned the task to `buy off' an undesirable demimonde from the attentions of their younger brother Chase.  These St. John men, all handsome to a fault and wealthy to boot have had much experience in thwarting the attentions of marriage minded mamas and their daughters so Brandon, the handsomest of the lot, thinks that this shouldn't take him more than a few minutes time.  Expecting a hard, painted, money-hungry grasping widow, the Lady Verena Westforth was definitely out of the ordinary.  Lady Verena - blond lovely and indeed enticing - she would put the arrogant, pompous Brandon St. John in his place!<br />Along with the lovely and comical battle of the sexes, there is a mystery and a murder to solve in which Verena is smack dab in the middle.  Verena has grown to enjoy her independence until this wonderfully handsome man has aroused feelings she thought long dead.  Her family background and secrets could destroy her should the investigations uncover her past - but more than that she could very well lose her heart.<br />This was a really good story with the added excitement and mystery of a murder and hunt for a missing list.  The characters are extremely well developed, intelligent, and interesting.  The introduction of  Verena's butler in training - Herbert - the reformed(?) pickpocket provides numerous light hearted moments and the love scenes as Brandon, that handsome devil - shows us his stuff - well he is HOT!  Excellent read which I can highly recommend.which I can highly recommend.	2003-04-21
1151029:US	45284807	R1S86QU06TYWDJ	038082079X	161550759	An Affair to Remember (Talisman Ring)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lots of good Belly laughs	Anthony Elliot, the bachelor Earl of Greyley, at the reading of his cousin's will found himself the immediate recipient of five new wards.  He appeared non pulsed but knew that he needed a governess and fast! After going through several, he determined that not just any governess would do; he needs the best!  That the best just happens to be the most stubborn aggravating female he's ever known is the problem.  The very unconventional Anna Thraxton, his sister Sara's very best friend, is a gently bred woman fallen on hard times, yet who speaks her mind, and offers her opinion whether asked for or not, and in general, is the last person he wants staying with him at Greyley house - but desperate times call for desperate measures!  The children need to be taken in hand, and so through some very underhanded negotiations, he convinces Anna, who moves in and quickly makes headway with the children and the earl at the same time.<br />Anna, although sorely aggravated by Anthony's high handedness was nonetheless, not immune to his considerable charms.  Having once traveled in the high society of the ton she had to remind herself, more often than not, that she was an employee, even though the chemistry between them was heating up to a very fevered pitch!<br /><br />The children are delightful, though hellions,  as is Anna's grandpapa,  and the numerous other well-drawn secondary characters who will keep you deep in chuckles and belly laughs.  Having read the \\"Seduction of Sara\\" I looked forward to this sequel and was not disappointed - a very charming romance with witty and humorous dialog and a lot of nice sensual teasing and love scenes.	2003-04-21
1152338:US	45284807	RJX7SM00HJKJA	0380815265	625565407	The Seduction of Sara	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Light and Entertaining - Not to be Missed	Sara Lawrence is a beautiful young widow whose first marriage was such a disaster she refused to mourn the less than faithful wretch.  Her brothers, sensing her penchant for stubbornness were determined to marry her off again before she would make another foolish mistake.  Knowing what was at stake and vowing to determine the course of her own life, she would find herself a biddable husband who would let her go her own way before loving but interfering five older brothers do their own damage. There are few candidates for the job in Bath--until the scandalous and dangerous Nicholas Montrose, the Earl of Bridgeton, arrives.<br />Nicholas takes one look at Sara and wants her in his bed as his mistress but she clearly desires marriage and that is not what Nicholas, die hard bachelor has in mind!  Despite their differences, he plans to seduce her while he convinces her that he is aiding her in her search for a husband. Sara and Nick are caught in a compromising position, by her brothers who demand that they marry. Nicholas has a dark secret that haunts him and while he will marry he will refuse to take the chance of siring a child.<br />With a smart and witty dialogs this fast-paced regency romance will delight the reader with not one but two sweet romances as Sara's Aunt Delphia and Nick's friend the Henri, get caught in cupid's target range - you'll hold your belly for the laughter of  Delphia's seduction of Henri!  The laughs are numerous as Sara meets one after another-disastrous suitors.  All in all a most satisfying romance that is not to be missed.	2003-04-20
1153622:US	45284807	R2N97GCTZ14CBB	0821753983	759623339	The Love Within	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Awesome	This is the third book of the \\"Viking Sea Jewel\\" series, although it should be the second, and chronicles the story of Aldric and Freya's daughter Edana, twin sister of their son Beorn. More than that, it is the story of Padraic - or as he called himself Kerrin torn from his mothers breast and brought up thinking himself the son of an adulterous mother who had lain with her husbands brother.<br />As his grandfather lay dying under the boot of Kerrin's father, the Viking conqueror Torrin Ericksen, he laid a curse on him and \\"....all your seed, Torrin Ericksen! Man-wolves! Unholy curs! Slayers of innocents! You shall rue the day you sailed your dragonships on Waterford!\\"  Whether the curse were real or not, the seeds of destruction were sown in the mind of the conqueror and the innocent child of the union would bear the cruelty borne of that madness. Brought up believing that no woman could ever be trusted, Kerrin rode to fetch his betrothed bride thinking to `test' her fidelity by claiming he was the brother of Edana's bridegroom.<br />The adventures they encountered as they traveled from England to Ireland as Edana fought her attraction to her surly `brother-in-law' and Kerrin fought against the feelings he felt for Edana, his wife, were both numerous and quite exciting as the action in this very lively tale flew from page to page.  From the very first pages you will be kept in suspense wondering just who and what Kerrin is as the passionate response both feel they get to know one another escalates.  Secondary characters thoroughly and fully developed, add the requisite layers to this terribly good book and  just add to the enjoyment as your imagination is  brought vividly from one exciting locale to the next in 9th century Britain and Ireland.  Wonderful book that I can highly recommend.	2003-04-19
1156527:US	45284807	R2VWRJW22FSQN9	082174318X	532885368	Enchanted (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Sweeping Historical Novel	The sequel continues the saga from Neri's earlier book  \\"Sea Jewel\\" telling the story of the firstborn son of Alaric and Freya.  Sailing on Viking ship on his way home to Kent from Denmark, Beorn, jarl of Danehof encounters heavy seas and he and his men are washed ashore where, trying to adhere to a blood oath to his father sworn never to shed Saxon blood,  he attempts to wave a white flag and effect a simple surrender.  Unfortunately, Beorn's attempts at surrender were refused as Saxons, exhibited no honor and brutally attacked the Vikings as they dragged themselves to shore.  Upon seeing their jarl struck down the ensuing battle enflamed the Vikings and spurred them to fight like demons.<br />Rhiannon, abandoned as a mere babe, was a mysterious Cornish beauty raised by a woman she called `auntie' who trained her in the healing arts.  On that fateful night, the mortally wounded Beorn would drag himself to her lodge where she would heal him -against her better judgment, as he was a hated vile sea-dog, Viking.  Later discovering that her beloved Lord Cullen was being held a prisoner, by the Vikings, she thought to effect a hostage exchange - but that did not work out and she ended up prisoner herself, and as most romances go, she does end up falling in love with her jailer, and he with his captive, after an assorted series of adventures and mid-adventures.<br />At over 600 pages this was a hefty novel yet the story was enticingly sweet, enchanting and riveting.  Set in the year 908 it tells of two stubborn individuals - Beorn half Viking - half Saxon, and Rhiannon whose ancestry was a mystery.  Rhiannon had pledged herself to the Moon Goddess but could not control her feelings once Beorn had kindled her womanly responses with his lovemaking. Setting out on an adventure of discovery she had to discover her past before she could go forward with a future, and in the telling find out if her healing powers were lost once she admitted to and embraced her love. If you can find a copy of this out of print novel - you will find a most enjoyable read that will make you laugh and make you cry.ind a copy of this out of print novel - you will find a most enjoyable read that will make you laugh and make you cry.	2003-04-16
1157315:US	45284807	R16X88L8KBGUQJ	0060092130	43840938	Dance of Seduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 4)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Mutual Seduction	Morgan Pryce - the roguish twin brother of Sebastian, Lord Templemore (\\"After the Abduction\\") has his own story here.  He has set up shop next door to Lady Clara Stanbourne's `home for reformed pickpockets' and she is not happy to have a `fence' as a neighbor tempting her children into returning to a life of crime!<br />The fur flies as these two spar continuously with one another as the very intelligent Lady Clara continues to try to rid herself of her annoyingly attractive neighbor - from turning him in to the authorities to bribing him to move to another neighborhood.  Yet, his handsome good looks continually plague her as do his ribald and insulting comments as he tries to keep her from finding out that he is really working undercover for the Home Office to bring down the smuggling ring run by an unknown man known only as the `Specter'.  Underneath it all Morgan fights his attraction to Lady Clara, wanting her yet fighting his feelings of inadequacy over a scarred and bitter childhood.<br />Jeffries' witty and very intelligent dialog will keep you laughing as well as some endearing secondary characters, and animals!  Not to be missed is the titillating interrogation scene at the tonnish ball where Clara trades favors for answers to her questions - one particular comment of hers had me on the floor in gales of laughter but you will have to read the book as it is just one of the most priceless comments I've read in a long time!  This has been just an outstanding series and each of the past four books can and do stand alone but pick them all up - you won't be sorry!	2003-04-15
1160513:US	45284807	R1G161Z38S2UYE	038081790X	118708766	Born in Sin: A MacAllisters Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Raw and Powerful	Book Two of the \\"MacAllister\\" series was to me, raw and brutally emotional.  My heart was in my throat for practically the entire book and I found tears more often than not running down my face.  Frankly, I had to keep reminding myself that `this is fiction' and just a book - but WOW talk about engaging all of your emotions!  I sensed from Sin's introduction while reading `Claiming the Highlander' that his story would be emotional and I was not disappointed.  Born of an English noblewoman; sired by the laird of the MacAllister's - he was shunned by both. Banished and disowned by his Scottish father he learned early in life to despise his Scottish heritage and the English treated him no better. Sin - not to be confused with Cynric was, called lad for some time until as a child he was brutally told that he was conceived in sin, born in sin and would die in sin. Up until then, never held or loved - he thought - people loved sin - why not claim the name.  His story of survival is heart wrenching and the author gives you a no holds barred look of a child's heart so severely abused that it would take an amazing feat to bring it back to life -  if at all.<br />Enter Caledonia \\"Callie\\" MacNeely, King Henry's political prisoner and pawn to be used in a plot to bring down the infamous `Raider' of the Highlands.  King Henry,would cajole Sin into a marriage with the beautiful Scotswoman so that Sin could infiltrate, find, and bring the `Raider' to justice.  From the moment, Callie met the dark knight, she felt danger but also an amazing awareness and heat at his touch.  She heard the dark whispers speaking of atrocities this man had committed but she saw and sensed in him gentleness and kindness. With no recourse in this decreed marriage she was bound and determined to storm the impenetrable wall he had erected around the withered and bruised heart she sensed that he had closed off.  The love she felt for Sin as she fought to have him admit to the feelings she knew him to have for her was fabulous. In order to break through his icy cold demeanor, she would use whatever she could including her delightful sassy humor to make even him laugh.<br />This was a wonderful love story that touched me deeply and was an absolutely awesome read I could not put down.  It is the type that will remain in my heart for some time as well as on my keeper shelf.for her was fabulous. In order to break through his icy cold demeanor, she would use whatever she could including her delightful sassy humor to make even him laugh.<br />This was a wonderful love story that touched me deeply and was an absolutely awesome read I could not put down.  It is the type that will remain in my heart for some time as well as on my keeper shelf.	2003-04-13
1161581:US	45284807	R39F2U8YCAUG12	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Passion to Die For	Anything Liz Carlyle comes out with now is an automatic buy for me.  One thing you can always be assured of is fabulous intelligent dialog, subtle and/or outrageous humor and intense sensuality.  One thing you will find is that of six books Ive read, you most often will re-visit or have mention made of characters from previous novels and this common thread is one I look forward to as I think most book lovers will agree, when the characters are so finely drawn out they remain in your heart and become friends that you like to revisit at times.<br />Bently Hell-Bent Rutledge, first mentioned in Beauty Like the Night is and was a rogue  handsome, devilish, but even then you saw he did have a heart.  Here you get to meet him up front and personal, with no holds barred good and bad.  Of course, in order to strip him to the core and show his soul it takes a very special woman, Frederica dAvillez  exotic and beautiful beauty  a ward of another hero from My False Heart.  It takes an amazingly and gifted author to hold your attention through an entire book with a soft plot but indeed it is done here.  Characterizations are so exquisitely drawn, that you will find this as all of Carlyles books extremely hard to put down.  The passion and the SEX is to die for!  This with all of her other books land permanently on my keeper shelf!	2003-04-12
1163031:US	45284807	R2VB1JJDBLVRUK	0553583085	355235250	Kissed by Shadows (Get Connected Romances)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Powerful	This was the third book in the `Kiss' trilogy and it was an amazingly powerful historical romance.  Set during the Tudor reign, atrocities that had always been committed in the guise of religion, politics etc overcame any and all thoughts of humanity. In this story our heroine, Pippa, unfortunately and unconscious of the deed, was the recipient of just such an atrocity.  From the very first pages, I was hooked!<br />In the 16th century when Lady Philippa Nielson meets Lionel Ashton, a close confidant of Queen Mary and King Philip II, she knows that she's met the mysterious English lord before but cannot remember where or how.  Lionel denies any prior connections as even though, as a married woman, her feelings and attraction become stronger . Ultimately as Pippa's friendship with Lionel grows, her relationship with her husband, Stuart, deteriorates. She suspects Stuart, doesn't love her and is having an affair. Soon she learns she's pregnant and discovers the truth of Stuart's love affair.  Later, through Lionel she learns an even more shocking discovery finding both herself and Stuart as pawns in a plot to secure Queen Mary's place on the throne.  But the most shocking and devastating blow comes when she discovers Lionel's part in the same plot - the man whom Pippa had trusted and even loved, was part of the plot and now he wanted her to trust him to save her!<br />This was an absolutely mesmerizing story as Ms.Feather skillfully draws out the intrigue, dangers, and inhumanity of this period. I was swept away into the time period with her historical knowledge of and colorful descriptions of court costumes, protocols, and customs. The love story between Pippa and Lionel was so touchingly powerful and as a side bonus there is a delightful secondary romance between Lionel's ward Luisa and Pippa's brother Robin.  This was an awesome read!	2003-04-10
1165477:US	45284807	RWTD8D92OEVNR	0553581872	694900967	The Widow's Kiss	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding Exciting Historical	Lady Guinevere of Mallory had not reached the age of 30 - yet  she had been widowed four times - with each husbands death increasing her personal fortune.  Hugh de Beaucaire, had a vested interest in these matters - a soldier with a son for whom he wanted more than a soldiers life - and thusly he disputed a holding that Lady Guinevere had received upon the death of her first husband.  Voicing these concerns to King Henry and his then Privy Seal, Thomas Cromwell, he was sent to investigate this widow and the circumstances surrounding the deaths.  He knew her to be attractive, as he had seen her small portrait, but expected to see a cold-blooded `black widow' heartless harpy, not the achingly breathtaking beauty he found.<br />Set amidst the reign of King Henry VIII in 1537 with all the treachery and political intrigues in that period this story just flies with passion and pageantry.  The central characters are unique in that our heroine is not an innocent young virgin, nor is the hero the young and handsome knight, but a more worldly and seasoned campaigner.  While attracted to the Lady, he has a healthy wariness that is a delight in the so very intelligent dialogs between the two of them. The historical background of court life, moods, and treachery had me on the edge of my seat and biting my nails as I was caught up in the dangers that surrounded them when Hugh began to believe in her innocence and fall in love, as he then incurred the wrath of men who thought nothing of assignation to those who went against their nefarious plans.<br />This was an absolute total read for me, which having previously read her \\"V\\" series, I equate this author with high romance and edge-of-the-seat adventure!  This book gives you three dimensional characterizations, mystery, super secondary characters (you will just love the two daughters Pen and Pippa) to fall in love with and a big tease to make you pick up her next two books to complete this promising \\"Kiss\\" trilogy.	2003-04-08
1165765:US	45284807	R32TBH20E8YY24	0515132926	958640035	Lady in Waiting (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Circe's Story	Circe Hill had fallen in love with David, earl of Westbury when she was 12 and prayed he would wait just six more years for her to grow up.  The very talented girl did grow up and as a very accomplished artist even if the Royal Academy did not recognize women in their society - her passion would become her art.  Not willing to conform, she would let her art substitute for her the confines of being a dutiful wife.  Having spent two years studying on the continent she would try to make her sister happy by agreeing to have `a come out season'.<br />David had not married, in his conscious mind, he would never have the type of marriage he had seen throughout his childhood where harsh words were the norm.  He would find for himself a quiet, proper and biddable young woman to marry and have his children - never to repeat the domestic wars he had grown up with.  At least, that was until Circe re-entered his life and the brotherly affections he once held no longer applied.  As Circe did her best to honor her sisters dreams of a wonderful season for her debut and after she had been accosted several times, David who was trying to remain impartial to her charms, began to realize that he just might lose the most important person in his life.<br />This sequel to `Dear Imposter'  had a very nice little plot as the central characters advanced from family friends to a more passionate level.  Loved the scene in the attic where Circe examined David in order to paint him nude.  Very nice - not overly sensual but a nice little mystery.	2003-04-08
1165766:US	45284807	R29HBCKYSKWPA5	0446610852	581545043	The Kissing Game	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Amusing Light Read	Lady Allegra Nesbitt, daughter of the Earl of Sunderland - or more correctly the daughter of the supreme prankster - Oxie Nesbitt had come to London after a five year absence in which it was hoped that the ton would have forgotten some of Oxie's more outrageous pranks.  It was to be Allegra's come out and chance to find herself a suitable husband.  Unfortunately, five years would not be enough time for the ton to have forgotten the outrageous pranks that her father had pulled.<br />Plain speaking Allegra, knew that she would never be invited or accepted but would do what she could make the best of the situation.  Making the acquaintance of the next-door neighbor, the mysterious, rich and very handsome Armand Gauthier, Allegra enlists his aid in helping her to get through the season, unscathed and play a major prank on her father to teach him a lesson!  Armand's attraction to Allegra heats up as they became allies in creating a prank to get back at Oxie - that is until Oxie himself creates a situation that puts Allegra in danger!<br />This was such a cute story, the dialogs were very amusing and it was a really funny book to read.  The plot was different for a historical romance novel and I would categorize this more as a romantic comedy than a historical romance. The secondary characters, especially Oxie, were a hoot - very fast paced and enjoyable read.	2003-04-08
1166045:US	45284807	R1R8RV9N1C85LT	0060001453	686738756	Love With the Proper Husband	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Delightful and Witty	The very formidable matriarchs of the ton in 1820 regency England had formed a society to preserve the British nobility etc., which was in fact a group of concerned mama's who wanted their errant sons and heirs to get off their duff's, marry suitable girls and produce the next heirs.  Through some very adept maneuvers, the very first casualty was to be Marcus Holcroft, the Earl of Pennington.<br />Miss Gwendolyn Townsend, having been born female, had, at the demise of her father, lost her home and all she held dear to a distant male cousin.  Having been told this news by an overzealous young attorney she had departed immediately to make her way as a governess - a position she was not very good at.  Once she had been tracked down and recalled to England by her fathers solicitors, she was apprised of several things, 1) she had been left a modest inheritance, 2) a small but lovely house, and 3) an arranged husband - should she so desire - the husband that is.  Marcus had found out that same day that his father had arranged for him to marry his dear old friends daughter, Gwendolyn, and should he not be married by the time he reached the age of 30 - in less than 3 months - he would lose his entire fortune!<br />This was such an amusing story with some very funny dialog that I virtually flew through the book - it was that hard to put down!  The by-play between the two central characters was delightful and the numerous secondary characters was brilliantly done  as I especially loved Marcus' friend Reggie and his very droll sense of humor at Marcus' expense. The three orphaned nieces of Gwendolyn were priceless as `out of the mouths of babes' comments went right to the heart of the matter in so many instances.  This was a lovely, and very enjoyable book that I can and do heartily recommend.	2003-04-08
1166284:US	45284807	R1V87NSGP79KV1	0446530964	433003967	Heart of the Night (Delinsky, Barbara)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Could be HEAT of the Night	It was hard to say just who's story this was - so many characters all with depth, strengths and charm of their own - society twin sisters, Savannah the over achiever top attorney and Susan the divorcee socialite; their childhood and best friend Megan raised from blue collar to socialite thru marriage.  Then, as always, there are the men in their lives - Sam, the hard nosed, down to earth cop; Will, Megan's loving society husband; and last but not least, Jared Snow - the voice, the heart and the soul in the heart of the night!<br />This story was impressive showing very successful and dynamic people on the outside and examining the all too human complexities of sibling rivalries, issues of self esteem in the privileged world of the Newport elite!  Toss in some really hot and sinfully sensual love scenes as well as a mysterious socialite kidnapping and you have in this, an almost perfect read!  This was an extremely fast page-turner that I consider high praise from a die-hard historical romance genre book reader such as myself.  This story invoked a lot of feeling here and I thoroughly enjoyed it and would recommend it to any of those who like to read into the `heart of the night'.	2003-04-08
1166325:US	45284807	RSSNZOEZAFPH4	0380814803	842568057	The Pursuit	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Great Story - Loved It!!!!	Melissa MacGregor was looking forward to leaving the highlands for the social world of London, both for the excitement and to escape the over protectiveness of her mother's sixteen madcap and sometimes bumbling brothers. Well-meaning, as they were, but lordy where would Melissa ever find a suitor who couldn't be intimidated by them!<br />Lincoln Ross Burnett, viscount Cambury had grown up in the highlands but at the age of ten he'd been sent away to the care of his uncle after a particulary bad beating from the boys he'd been running wild with.. After the death of his father, his mother had locked herself away to mourn, and now, nineteen years later he's returned home to try to put to rest the bitter resentment and rage he felt for his mother.  Trying to find a spot where he could recall happier memories, Linc happened upon a tranquil scene but the moment Melissa stood and faced him, he world would never be the same and both would become the unwilling participants in the re-emergence of the MacFearson clan feud of the past.<br />Having never read Ms. Lindsey before, I must say that this book was for me a real treat! I absolutely loved it! The dialog was fresh, the brothers MacFearson were a real hoot with delightful sibling squabbles that had me laughing out loud.  It had all the elements I look for in a completely satisfying read, fast-paced, sensually stimulating, uproariously funny and heartbreakingly tearful - all of this in one great story! The secret behind, Linc's banishment from his home provides a real twist to this story.  You've got to love it!	2003-04-08
1166327:US	45284807	R3K0RC599SV8IZ	0553583077	467944726	To Kiss a Spy (Get Connected Romances)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding Exciting Historical	Lady Pen Bryanston, a beautiful widow has been but a shadow of herself - she is tormented after losing her husband, then her child some years back. As a lady in waiting to Princess Mary in the year 1550 she meets the very sophisticated spy Owen d'Arcy whose initial approach to her rather surprised and intrigued her. Owen, a somewhat dispassionate and unreadable spy originally sees Pen as another pawn to be used in the plots and intrigues surrounding the royal family.  Pen, who has always been sensible, was not swept away by Owen - curious though her interest was piqued.  Pen strikes a devil's bargain with the handsome, dangerous man. Pen needs Owen to uncover the truth about the baby her vicious mother-in-law claimed stillborn -dead at birth.  She must use her position as favorite lady-in-waiting to spy on the princess. The situation becomes quite complicated for Pen  as she battles her memories of her husband Philip with the passion and lust she begins to feel for Owen.<br />Owen, dark and dangerous, finds himself attracted to Pen on many levels, she makes him start to reassess his life and his motives and as Owen unravels and begins to prove Pen's obsession with the questionable death of her son, a very dangerous political storm is gathers around the people she most loves, her brother Robin (a spy fro the opposing side), Princess Mary, her parents and sisters.<br />To Kiss a Spy is the second book in the `Kiss' trilogy.  It is filled with wonderfully descriptive and colorful historical facts that keep you on the edge of your seat as the central characters race against time to escape political maneuverings and save their loved ones from losing their heads. This book most definitely stands alone, but I do suggest that for any die-hard historical reader to really get the whole feel and flavor of this period in history to read them in the order of publication.  Personally, I cannot wait to start `Kissed by Shadows' the third entry to this fantastic series.	2003-04-08
1166838:US	45284807	R32EA5340BEKDT	0515131121	936539516	Dear Impostor (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nice - Good Dialog	In order for Miss Psyche Hill to gain control of a portion of her fortune from her tight fisted uncle she would have to come up with an aristocratic and acceptable fianc&eacute;, so she has her maid go out and hire an actor to play the part for an evening betrothal party!  Unfortunately, the actor is waylaid and the man who jumped into the carriage which was to have taken the actor to the betrothal party turns out to be the notorious gamester Gabriel Sinclair who was running for his life from some very dangerous `sore losers' that were out to do him bodily harm!  Being quite astute, and a quick study, Gabriel figures out that he is the guest of honor at `his' betrothal party, when no one disputes who he is when announced as Lord Tarrington - the fictitious name Psyche had given to her relatives of her supposed fianc&eacute;.  The divine and very proper Miss Hill was so gloriously beautiful that Gabriel decided not to correct her assumption that he was the actor her maid had hired.<br />I really liked this story, especially after Psyche found out that Gabriel was not the actor, but a notorious gamester.  The authors developed their characters very well and the dialogs were both witty and intelligent.  I found the secondary characters to be quite interesting as well and found Psyche's sister Circe to be quite charming as well as the veritable `hard as nails' aunt Sophie.  What I also found enjoyable was the masterful put-downs Psyche used on her odious cousin Percy who didn't have a clue!<br />The secret of who Gabriel truly was, did seem to be overly long and drawn out and finally meeting his father, gave new meaning to dysfunctional family!  The passion was nice, but again nothing to make your toes curl.  What I found endearing was Psyche realizing her love for and supporting Gabriel once she saw what kind of a monster his father was.  All in all it was a satisfying read that I can recommend and  I am looking forward to reading Circe's story the sequel `Lady in Waiting'.	2003-04-08
1178186:US	45284807	R1X8S5V8N6TNWF	084394692X	894884336	Tell Me Lies (Leisure historical romance)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Hot, Passionate, and Thrilling	In a word - HOT - from the very first pages, this book simply sizzles! It was quite raw and powerful, with a young woman who did what she thought would be the only way to survive being taken by pirates.  The last survivor on the seized ship, she had seen everyone else slain, the decks were awash in blood and by the hungry looks of the pirate crew she would be next. She realized her only hope was to have the captain claim her for his own, and through a strength she did not know she possessed, she projected as much sensuality as she could in order to convince the captain to claim her for himself.<br />The captain, Dan, took one look at her and recognized blatant sensuality and,along with his lust, somehow his humanity surfaced, for he knew that if he did not claim her for his own, she would never survive the night.<br />This was a very raw and passionate journey of sensuality, possession, obsession and love. It was a tale of survival that both Dan and Lydia intimately knew well enough in each their own way.  After, Lydia escapes the ship and Dan, he only knows that she has taken with her his captain's portion, and finally, after he finds her again, realizes that his very survival would be meaningless without her.  This was a very powerful and sensual love story.  Super good and fast read!  Loved it!	2003-03-28
1180939:US	45284807	R2R4YOMRT31VIC	0061040118	253983347	Stolen Love	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Need More from this Author!	Having read Ms. Jewel's more recent novel, \\"Lord Ruin\\" which is a fabulous read, I looked for anything else that this talented author had written and found this older (1991) book.  I am still looking for an even earlier novel \\"Passion's Song\\" but no luck so far!<br />Elizabeth Willard had been a childhood friend of the very, handsome and dashing Nicolas Villines until the difference in their ages and fortune thrust them apart. Some four years later of having not `seen' one another, Elizabeth, and her cousin Amelia Willard were being presented to Society. Both girls were expected to find husbands and with the fortune behind the very beautiful Amelia this would be accomplished in one season.  Elizabeth on the other hand, the `poor relation' would be reminded by her well meaning but clueless aunt that without a fortune her prospects would not be so bright. With her reticence, and charm though, it would be the more discerning gentlemen who would recognize her true worth including and especially, Nicolas Villines, the man who had stolen Elizabeth's heart long ago.<br />Elizabeth would soon find that the close childhood friend had changed from the secretive man he had become.  Conversely, while Nicolas continued to think of Elizabeth as a child he would have to soon reconcile himself that she had grown up and the feelings she was instilling in him were not those for a child.<br />This was a very nice book, good dialog, interesting characterizations, but a rather simple plot that was easy to discern.  Very pleasant book, but my one complaint would be that as the seduction is so tastefully, and sensually portrayed - you had to wait too long to get to it.	2003-03-26
1181535:US	45284807	R2F2N9BHJ2IV4H	1551666618	274925781	Impetuous Innocent	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not Trademark Laurens	As a reissue of one of Stephanie Laurens earlier novels, and if this is your first time reading anything by this author, please realize that this is NOT her trademark work.  This would be better classed for a young adult as an introduction to a quaint and simple regency romance. The story is of a young 18-year-old orphan, Georgiana Hartley, who after her artist father dies in Italy, travels to England to the only relative known to her - her uncle. Unfortunately, by the time she arrives in England, it is to find out that her uncle died a month before her father and now her only living relative was an odious `bounder' cousin Charles.  The family estate, the `Place', is rundown and Charles is trying his best to compromise and marry the girl.  She runs off with her servants to the neighboring estate, hoping to get the resident lady to assist her and finds a handsome bachelor, Dominic Ridgely, who knew her cousin Charles to be a creep so he sends her off to his sister in London as being a bachelor, it would compromise both of them for her to remain with him.  Dominic, after he shipped her off to London, thought her a charming young lady, with the emphasis on young, her age 18 to his 32. Down the road, as he starts to see her as a young woman, who haunts his thoughts he determines that she would make a delightful countess and sets out to win her.<br />It's a rather simple plot and the writing is good with simple character descriptions quite unlike her Cynsters series - which is the series to read as a benchmark of Ms. Laurens awesome talent.  Bottom line, this is not a real exciting or sensual novel for this author who is renowned for passionate and sensual reads.	2003-03-25
1183323:US	45284807	R1MOFJVDWFW7L0	0312984596	170838457	Absolute Pleasure	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An absolute pleasure to read	I read numerous reviews before buying this book and clearly it was a - love it or hate it type of book - I wanted to see for myself, bought it, read it and I find that it was an `absolute pleasure'.<br />Gabriel Christofore, the male lead - and by no means a hero, was a scoundrel; his life shaped clearly by the father he adored, the fourth son of an earl, who was also a scoundrel! Gabriel's Italian mother, the love of his father's life, had been murdered so that their relationship was extremely close as they really had only each other.  Lady Elizabeth Harcourt, was targeted as a `mark', for Gabriel, an accomplished and gifted artist, as well as a master in seductive arts. <br />Lady Elizabeth, who at the age of 27, had never been romanced; for years her father's personal secretary, hostess, etc. her life was mundane but having known none other, content - until her father married a young girl of 17 who was turning her life into hell. The outrageous appeal of this handsome, outspoken, and flamboyant artist was a temptation that held appeal.  Elizabeth soon realized that the painting was secondary in nature to Gabriel's true mission but as he awakened a passion in Elizabeth, she did the same to him which would end up consuming them both.<br />One would think that you should dislike Gabriel, but through the author's deft characterization, you see where he was not all bad - outrageous at times - but not a bad person.  When he soon realized that he came to care deeply for Elizabeth, he tried to break it off and remove himself from the situation but Elizabeth wouldn't let him and what follows was an extremely sensual downfall of this scoundrel - and his father as well.  Yes, as a secondary romance, even Gabriel's father was struck by Cupid's arrow.  This was a very good story - I thoroughly enjoyed it and except for a warning to the very faint hearted as to the explicit sexual content I heartily recommend it!	2003-03-24
1185603:US	45284807	R3R0L1PBZZVQS6	0743453069	169509622	Charming the Highlander (Highlander Trilogy)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Unique Time Travel	The book starts off, on the sad side, as our heroine Grace Sutter, is at the bedside of her younger sister Mary, who was in an accident and just delivered a baby. In her last dying breaths, Mary tells Grace, the rocket scientist, the incredible story of why she had fled the baby's father; and makes Grace promise to bring the baby back to his father who is all alone in the world.  Further she is to promise to sprinkle Mary's ashes on their childhood home on Tarstone mountain on the day of the summer solstice which is four months away.  Taking a sabbatical to grieve and care for `Baby' Grace travels home during a winter ice storm. The charter plane crashes into a mountain but Grace, the baby, and another traveler, Greylon MacKeague survive the crash and through superhuman effort, Grey is able to bring both Baby and Grace, to safety.<br />It is of course, no consequence that Grace and Grey have met or have this incredible `lusty' attraction to one another - very sensually described!  Also, in the background you have this delightful wizard who cast the spell (after a few mishaps) that brought this 12th century warrior, along with a few others that were not necessarily planned for, to the 21st century to find Grey's soul mate who would bear the child, that would one day be the wizard's heir.  Grace, in the meantime, has secrets of her own and continues the deception that the baby is hers, while trying to determine if the Baby's father is sane enough to raise the child - being a scientist, Grace does not believe in time travel!  Discovering that the baby's father is an arch- enemy of Grey's makes the complications of her attraction to Grey and growing love of `Baby' all that more heartbreaking.  The relationship between Grey and Grace as the scientist, comes to terms with this purely alpha male is divine.<br />What I found unique in this book was that the 12th century warriors had four years to become acclimated to modern day life prior to the time period the story takes place in.  As such, you didn't have the normal `awestruck' behavior that most time travel books would depict. This initial offering from a new author was very charming and sensual and I look forward to the sequels as Grey's band of `merry men' get on with their lives in the 21st century.  Excellent read, fast moving, humorous and intelligent. Bravo on this first book from an author who I predict has a very bright future!es place in.   As such, you didn't have the normal `awestruck' behavior that most time travel books would depict. This initial offering from a new author was very charming and sensual and I look forward to the sequels as Grey's band of `merry men' get on with their lives in the 21st century.  Excellent read, fast moving, humorous and intelligent. Bravo on this first book from an author who I predict has a very bright future!	2003-03-21
1187764:US	45284807	R9OE53LWQXXPJ	034543434X	180608429	A Memory of Love	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Strong and Sassy Heroine	Rhonwyn, bastard daughter of the Prince of Wales opens this story as a five year old sheltering and caring for her three-year-old brother.  Her mother lay dead from a miscarriage when the children's father shows up and Rhonwyn's indifference to her sire demonstrates her independence and strength of character.  Not knowing what else to do with his children and not wanting to be inconvenienced, he brings them to the closet place, a border fortress manned entirely by men and leaves them.  Rhonwyn grows up more of a lad than a lassie, the darling of the fort, excelling in swordplay and hunting.  By the time her father returns, 10 years later, and politically motivated, he has betrothed his daughter to one of the king's men. To his horror, Rhonwyn is unrecognizable as a lady and he brings her to his sister, the lady abbess, to mold into some semblance of womanhood before bringing her to her new husband.<br />Rhonwyn's early upbringing without another female to guide her in any womanly pursuits or knowledge of marriage, romance etc. made this quite a different read.  Her only guide to behavior was to do her duty with honor and loyalty. It was accompanying her husband on the crusades that she would began to fall in love with him.  Then she was captured and thrust into the harem of a caliph who would be her guide in releasing the demons that had, up until then, blocked her passionate nature and she would be schooled in erotic love.  Rescued, escaping and finding her way back to Great Britain, she would find that she had been declared dead, replaced by another, and entering a new battle to repair her heart.<br />I loved this fascinating and compelling story!  From the very beginning, this book was very exciting with an interesting story and an absolutely fabulous heroine. The historical details were plentiful, the dialog fresh and sassy, the heroine gorgeous, secondary characters fascinating, and the sensuality sizzling - all in all a most perfect read!	2003-03-19
1188050:US	45284807	R1I9AAN6WS852F	0060185708	680960032	The Reluctant Suitor	Books	4	12	18	N	N	Passionate Regency England	Lady Adriana Sutton couldn't remember a time when she didn't love Colton Wyndham, the boy who totally broke her heart when she was but a child of six.  She adored him as a big brother and a friend, but when his father told him that the skinny, big eyed waif who tagged along behind him was his betrothed, he totally rebelled.  At the age of 16 Colton was too proud and too stubborn to accept a future not of his own choosing, so he fled from his home for a life of adventure and danger as an officer in the British army and now after an absence of 16 years he has returned, to find that the Lady Adriana has indeed changed from the plain, thin tomboy Colton had spurned, to an exquisite incomparable and much desired beauty.  Adriana finds that he is still the only man she has ever desired, but she is older, wiser - overcame having her heart broke at six but not quite ready to let him break it again.<br />Colton is still as arrogant, and stubborn as before and when he learns that their betrothal still stands, is just as mad. It doesn't matter that Adriana has stirred lust in his heart that he has never before felt so strongly in any one woman, he still does not want to be forced into a marriage not of his own choosing.  Colton does agree to court Lady Adriana for ninety days, after which time he will be allowed to keep his precious freedom if he so wishes.  Adriana, goes along with the courtship feeling that he is only doing it to please their parents but in the end knows that he will break her heart again in spite of all the charm he extends towards her. Forced into a courtship Colton soon loses his heart but continues to fight losing his bachelorhood.<br />There is a lot to love about this book, although the prose and dialogs as the central characters battle and bait one another is delightful, I did feel that this could have been played out as a one act play on a single stage that seemed to go on and on.  However, the second half action picked this up considerably as the secondary characters became more deeply involved in the sinister and treacherous plots that threatened to keep Adriana and Colton apart.  Even with the slow start I most definitely can recommend this book as Woodiwiss delivers the passion and spectacles of Regency England. The love story is wonderful and the bath scene is an absolute thrill - not to be missed!secondary characters became more deeply involved in the sinister and treacherous plots that threatened to keep Adriana and Colton apart.  Even with the slow start I most definitely can recommend this book as Woodiwiss delivers the passion and spectacles of Regency England. The love story is wonderful and the bath scene is an absolute thrill - not to be missed!	2003-03-19
1189491:US	45284807	R34QX6P4JPG71Y	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Fabulous - Pure BLISS	One word describes it all - FABULOUS!  Although this is the 4th book in Foley's Regency-era Knight family series (, The Duke, Lord of Ice, etc.), this, my very first book by this author, had me hooked from the very first pages.  Talk about a fast-page turner read - I could not put it down!  Right from the start this story showed us not only the glittering world of the titled few  but - the slums and back alleys of London.<br />Lady Jacinda Knight, beautiful but spoiled was to be betrothed to a childhood `almost brother' and although she held him in esteem, there was no way she would be safely and securely settled into a marriage and become someone's property.  Now that the war was over, she would run away to the continent only her plans ran awry when a pickpocket stole her very hefty purse she was foolish enough to flash.  Chasing after the thief she followed him into an alley and before she knew it, found herself hiding in garbage as a turf-war broke out around her!<br />The leader of one of the gangs, Billy Blade, was a man she recognized as an acquaintance of her brother, Lucien.  Billy, not realizing who she was, dragged her along to his `abode' in the slums where he managed, after a very passionate kiss, to find out to his horror that she was sister to his very powerful friend. He returns her to her brothers, thinking he would never see her again, that is until fate stepped in and he is forced to reunite with his beastly father and assume his rightful title as Earl of Rackford.<br />Fighting her feelings for Billy, Jacinta would lead him a merry chase, eventually taking him under her wing and paving his way into acceptable and proper ton behavior.  She constantly equates her fight for independence with her growing love and caring for this unruly, irreverent, and barbaric Earl.  Although, the title speaks of the Lady Jacinta, I found the story to be much more Billy's story than hers.<br />This story will make you laugh, it will make you cry, and it will also make your toes curl with the passionate sensual encounters.  Jacinta's finally forcing Billy to reunite and make peace with his abusive father is one of the most touching scenes of forgiveness I have ever read.  The light humor of the street-wise rebel earl as he charms the strong and independent Jacinta will have you standing up to cheer!  It's all that and more! This one is going to be firmly planted on my keeper shelf and anyone reading this review should immediately find themselves a copy of this - purely blissful story!make your toes curl with the passionate sensual encounters.  Jacinta's finally forcing Billy to reunite and make peace with his abusive father is one of the most touching scenes of forgiveness I have ever read.  The light humor of the street-wise rebel earl as he charms the strong and independent Jacinta will have you standing up to cheer!  It's all that and more! This one is going to be firmly planted on my keeper shelf and anyone reading this review should immediately find themselves a copy of this - purely blissful story!	2003-03-18
1191677:US	45284807	R2GRZ836HVZVP	0451208072	896317720	St. Raven	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Solid Gold Beverley	As a great Jo Beverley fan I always look forward to her new releases and having had a glimpse of the mysterious and handsome Tristan Tregallows, Duke of St. Raven in \\"Hazard\\" I was totally intrigued and couldn't wait for his story.  The book description sums up the story with Cressida Mandeville agreeing to the swarmy Lord Crofton's vile proposal with her naively thinking she is going to put one over on him and retrieve her father's hidden wealth.  Rescue, in the guise of a `highwayman' messes up her plans, as she and Crofton are held up by a `highwayman' who recognizes and knows Crofton for the slime-monster he is, so thinking of doing a good deed he rescues Cressida from his clutches. Instead of grateful Cressida is furious!<br />Tristan, our knight-errant `highwayman' is a complex character, not withstanding his very wild tendencies, he treated Cressida like a lady, once he realized she was an innocent, and her very naivety would make even him blush.  Cressida is, for all her attempts at proving to be a lady, curious enough and nave enough to have thought she could have gotten away with her plan.  Realizing how tenuous her reputation is should word of this escapade be known she convinces herself to grasp whatever `pleasurable' experience Tristan so succinctly offers her.  Tristan develops extremely well and the orgy he brings Cressida to was, to me, a highlight of this story and not to be missed.  The extremely sensual loveplay is tastefully and skillfully woven under the expert pen of Ms. Beverley.<br />If any part of this romance were to bother me, it would be the reality of the historical era that they lived in and the division of classes.  All through the story, you see Cressida, wanting so much to be able to spend her life with Tris, and his thoughts as well on the dilemma, with both rationalizing that they could never cross over the barrier that separated the high-born from the masses, especially when their very association would have led many to speculate as to how they met which could have very well ruined her. Bottom line, this is Beverley at her best, a keeper and a must read!ate as to how they met which could have very well ruined her. Bottom line, this is Beverley at her best, a keeper and a must read!	2003-03-16
1194326:US	45284807	R15E9QBINTV4AZ	0743417917	726733326	The Husband Hunt (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Historical Romance with a Supernatural Twist	Catriona Grant has fled her home in Scotland and the man old enough to be her father that her brother was forcing her to wed.  She arrives at Rutleigh Hall in the middle of the night searching for the cousin who had been so kind to her only to find that he has been killed in the war and Knight Dennison, the Viscount Rutleigh, may be a fate worse than the one she had fled as Knight appears to have taken an instant dislike of her and her unannounced, unconventional and suspiciously late arrival.  He doesn't believe her claims of kinship either until she produces a ring given to her by his deceased brother-in-law.  Olivia, Knight's kindly sister, recognizes the resemblance of eyes and is only too happy to take her in resolving to help her in any way she can which is to find her a suitable husband.  By the light of the day, Knight is surprised to find Catriona quite striking, once the raggedy clothing has been removed and he gets his first good look at her.  As his sister and aunt proceed to launch her into society on the husband hunt - Knight fights the knowledge that the only man to possess her must be him!<br />Although, this is a historical romance in nature, I was delighted to find some very magical and whimsical elements with tones of the paranormal genre.  The heroine's saucy and irreverent comments to the baiting sarcasm of Knight are extremely funny as they both do the `mating dance'.  The final capitulation of the pompous Knight and very earthy, and straightforward Catriona was wonderful.  The household staff, relatives, and friends were all delightfully eccentric and/or irreverent, with some I hope to see with their own stories some day.  This book will make you smile a lot while reading if not laughing right out loud.  It's a superb read for the keeper shelf and definitely a new author I will be reading in the future.	2003-03-14
1196294:US	45284807	R9MQVHEG8IJU1	0505525178	847024224	Improper English	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Not Worth the Wait and Anticipation	First I will preface this review with the fact that I much prefer period piece books, but have been known to highly praise a contemporary when the writing, plot, and style is exceptional. Unfortunately, I find that in this case, I cannot rave about this book, and it saddens me as I read MacAlister's earlier novel - \\"Noble Intention's\\" and was so enthralled with it that I was eargerly anticipating when this second book would finally be released.  Sorry but I will not rave about this book.<br />This was a struggle to finish, but I did because I had to see if, 1) the heroine Alix, could possibly redeem herself into someone I could like, and 2) to see if the hero, Alex, who seemed pretty intelligent, would wise up and realize that Alix, was a zany, immature and self-centered loser.  Well, suffice it to say, there was a happy ending but this reviewer will not reveal it, insofar as getting to it, was for me not enjoyable!  I did finish this book, but found that it was just a little too, slap-sticky in the many `wise crack' type comments that seemed to be sprinkled throughout the book for humor.  Perhaps I just wasn't in the mood for this book, but I loved MacAlister's style and humor in \\"Noble Intentions\\" which I most heartily recommend but cannot recommend this.	2003-03-12
1199577:US	45284807	R2YB9SBIW2MNW6	0060092653	963454545	Scandalous Again: Switching Places #1 (Switching Places Series)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Sensually Sensational	Madeline `Maddy' de Lacy, the duchess of Magnus always thought herself to be the most sensible woman in England, calm and collected, even when coming home after a sojourn of four years on the continent, she could not believe that her father had , with the turn of a card, lost not only his entire estate, but her as well - to a stranger!<br />Thinking her father was now about to lose the most valuable possession left, her priceless tiara, she concocts a plan with her cousin Eleanor, to switch places.  Eleanor would go on to London to meet with the man who had won her while she, Madeline would go to the country `game of the century ` and try to dissuade her father from losing this last piece of her inheritance. Posing as a companion was a stretch for Madeline, who gave `bossy' a new meaning.  Pretending to be meek and humble, being seen and not heard, ironing a dress - none of these things were in her repertoire of skills - but nothing could be worse than running into Gabriel Ansell, the earl of Campion and her former fianc&eacute; that she had run from and been trying to forget these last four years.<br />As always, this was a sensually sensational romantic read from the extremely gifted Christina Dodd.  She has given us a heroine who used her courage and intelligence to survive the dysfunctional neglect her absent-minded gamester father put her through from the time she was a child.  The secondary characters, and their humorous dialogs are wonderful as Gabriel and Maddy come to terms with their feelings for one another, and finally giving him her complete trust when her very life was on the line!  Furthermore,  Maddy's very sensual surrender will have you squirming in your seat.  I cannot wait for the sequels to this book.  Lady Thomasin, was a delight and I surely hope that we get to read her story as well as Eleanor, who traded places with Maddy to go and meet the mysterious Mr. Knight!  FABULOUS read - and a treasure for my keeper shelf!	2003-03-10
1200650:US	45284807	R1YI23O9ZYJWAM	0505525313	588163250	The Selkie	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Fabulous Magical Selkie Tale	Scotland, 1929, after the `war to end all wars' and Hesiod &quot;Hexy&quot; Garrow, an American has come to work for a beautiful widow who is renovating her inherited Fintry castle in Scotland.  Life has not been going well for Hexy, her allergies are driving her crazy, her boss Jillian has misplaced her fur coat on the beach, her boyfriend has basically dumped her, her last living relative and brother Rory has died in the war and she just can't seem to stop crying as she talks to the sea.  After she has wept into the sea, she does find a fur coat, only it isn't Jillian's - it's a selkie's skin.<br />Packing up the fur and Jillian for a trip to Italy, Hexy remains at the castle to oversee the renovations when she opens the door to a very irate, handsome, and underdressed Scotsman, Ruairidh &quot;Rory&quot; O'Uruisg.  What Hexy did not realize is that by inadvertently stealing his fur, along with shedding seven tears in the sea she has summoned this `selkie' to come lie with her.  What Rory was not expecting, was that this woman who summoned him would be so beautiful - but what really shook him was the sense that she wasn't at all what she knew herself to be!<br />This was an amazing, magical, and sensual fantasy bringing some beautiful imagery to mind. Rory, the selkie was intoxicating for Hexy and I quote, \\"In the space of a few hours, her soul's winter had turned into spring.\\" Ms. Jackson's writing intoxicated me.  This was a fast paced beautiful love story with all the elements I look for - handsome lead couple, sensual love play, and edge of the seat thrills as Hexy puts her life on the line to save her `selkie' and her love. I highly recommend this book - beautiful addition to my keeper shelf!	2003-03-09
1202659:US	45284807	R1H1L9JQSKL2C2	0515129739	890632272	Love's Labyrinth (Time Passages)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent Fast Paced Time Travel	England 1999 - best friends, Olivia Lindsley and Alison O'Neill don 16th century costumes and enter a maze to meet others in their tour group would be playing parts in an Elizabethan revel! Who would have guessed that when they came out of the maze they would be taking part in history - namely England 1586!<br />Upon exiting, there stood Geoffrey Talcott, amateur scientist and younger brother to Lord Nicholas Talcott.  Well, that is he stood for a second until he fainted dead away at the sight of the two women he immediately recognized as coming from someplace other than his century! Regaining consciousness, his first thought was he had to hide these two from his brother Nicholas and their royal guest, Queen Elizabeth but that didn't happen and with some quick thinking on Olivia's part, a plausible story was made up until they could figure a way out of this mess and Geoffrey figure out how to get them back to their own time.<br />There were so many delightful and exciting twists and turns to this time travel that used actual famous historical people in the plot.  Both Olivia and Alison were wonderfully portrayed - Olivia fitting in quite naturally as she had assisted her father in Elizabethan historical studies, and Alison her very best friend and clearly a 20th century gal, not enjoying roughing it in 16th century England!  Both would fall prey to the charming Talcott brothers, and heartbreak seemed to be in store for both should they ever find their way back.  With the politically dangerous climate and old enemies exacting plots for revenge the bigger question was would they survive long enough to make it back or would their prescence upset and change forever the future, as they knew it. This was a very fast-paced time travel story, lots of intrigue, history, and sprinkled with a little humor and lot of heart.	2003-03-07
1205807:US	45284807	R36Q2A7EOPMMHQ	0515127035	826587399	The Ghost and Katie Coyle (Haunting Hearts)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Ghost Story with a Twist	1799 - Derry O'Riordan, the tenth Earl of Kilmartin is imprisoned on a slave ship bound for Austrailia.  He is taking the place of his brother Timothy, who was part of a rebel uprising, but because he had a wife, a child and another on the way, Derry pulled strings and switched places with him.  Derry's beloved, Annie was lost to him and he felt that he had nothing else to live for.  A violent storm blows the ship off course, into the rocks along the Massachusetts coast and Derry, manacled in heavy chains manages to make it to shore, but dies of exposure and injuries received.<br />1998 - Present Day - Katie Coyle has accepted a position to teach Irish studies at East Bay college in a small town on the Massachusetts shore. Along with the position comes a charming cottage overlooking the sea that Katie Katie had an immediate attraction and a sense of `coming home' to that included on the grounds a ring of standing stones that had Celtic writings on them.  After some very sensual dreams Katie founds herself walking in the ring one day, and she happened upon Derry!<br />This was a ghost story with an amazing twist, that most will find quite interesting. A ghost that when within and a short distance from the ring of stones could be seen by all, not just a few, who was to all intents and purposes solid.  Derry was the missing Earl of Kilmartin, a mystery that academia's had been trying to prove for some time and one of Katie's colleagues who was intent on fabricating proof to show him as a traitor.  Couple this intense plot with an amazingly tender and beautiful star-crossed lovers seduction and you have a sure fire winner in this paranormal genre!	2003-03-05
1217190:US	45284807	R2NSFU4VKFMQ8A	0440237130	25356256	Whirlwind Affair	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engaging Regency	Wearing mourning clothes after three years because her efforts to repay the victims of her late husband's schemes have left her penniless, American Alberta \\"Allie\\" Brown arrives in England to visit her best friend, Elizabeth, and return a mysterious ring. Along the way, several accidents have occurred, leaving her to believe that they were no longer accidents, although she can't quite believe or understand why anyone would wish to harm her.<br />Waiting on the docks for her to arrive, Lord Robert Jamison keeps a lookout for the laughing lady he sees in a sketch his sister-in-law had given him.  He is to escort her to Elizabeth's home, but the solemn-eyed woman who steps off the ship hardly matches her portrait. Robert feels it is his duty to get her to smile, as he has been smitten by the sketch and really wants to find that woman underneath this somber and grieving widow. Having had her heart broken once, Allie is determined to keep her heart safe from another, handsome and charming man with secrets, but the attraction she has to Robert is heating up to a foregone conclusion.  After several escapades, including burglaries and a kidnapping she impulsively suggests they have a love affair.<br />D'Alessandro weaves you back into the wonderfully warm loving Jamison family that you hated to leave with Whirlwind Wedding so her fans should be delighted with this sequel that features the younger brother Robert.  The humorous dialog seems to be a given with her books and quite enjoyable.  Personally, I was a bit frustrated with Allie who seemed to have such a hard time believing in Robert, who I found to be such a darling but of course there would not have been a plot if she succumbed to his charm too soon.  The secondary character, Michael Evers, who played a minor role but was central to the mysterious ring, deserves a story and I can only imagine and hope that he will be next along with his butler, Crusher!  Now the butler's name alone deserves a story.	2003-02-23
1218970:US	45284807	R3PR9J1B1CZV6Z	0446604968	633539349	The Knight, the Harp, and the Maiden (Secrets of the Witch World)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Different from what I usually read.	To be honest, when I picked up this book I was expecting a historical medieval romance, this was not what I got.  This story was pure fantasy, about a make believe world with evil wizardry, thurges, master thurges, over thurges - thanes, and all sorts of classes of people that I had never run across before running all over in a fantasy land - again that I had never heard of. But I figured what the heck, I am into it why not broaden my horizons!<br />The story starts off with Lady Juilene who has been classically trained as a harpist and with a pleasing voice wants nothing more than to enter a competition before she marries her betrothed Arimond.  Arimond's sister is attacked rather brutally by the evil thurge Lindos' soldiers - one of many such brutal type happenings in their domain.  Arimond thinks he can defeat and kill the thurge if Juilene can, pose as a song-sayer and get Lindos to drop his guard.  - This does not happen - Arimond is caught and killed - Juilene is brought back to Lindos' keep and given an option - marry Lindos.  She refuses, and he places a curse on her that would hurt anyone who offers her aid, to be broken only by someone who will love her for herself.  To save her family and friends she flees with nothing but her harp and a few coins.<br />The rest of the story tells the trials and tribulations of this once pampered Lady who must now earn coin for her food, shelter and anything else she needs.  You get to watch her grow up and draw on strengths she never knew she had.  I would say that this was geared  more for a young adult but there is a scene in which Juliene loses her innocence that might make a parent think twice.  Eventually, a knight does come into her life with many secrets of his own.  The romance story is sweet and their journey together is rife with danger.  All in all - this not being a genre that I have immense knowledge of - I would say it is an okay read.  Interesting concept if you like that sort of thing.	2003-02-22
1221782:US	45284807	R1SXIPGJP4HZ8D	0515124095	525866688	A Once and Future Love (Time Passages, No 18)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding Time Travel	Richard Lambert went to England to fulfill his dead wife's wish, never knowing that he would be reunited with her, albeit 700 years in the past. Meanwhile, in 1214, a very brutal Lord Richard de Lambert wreaks havoc and terror along the Welsh border. His wife Eleanor, knows him for the monster he is and doesn't really care for him. Ambushed and mortally wounded, Lord Richard's body brought home to Eleanor, and he is pronounced dead. When the priest comes to perform last rites, he finds Richard still alive. Reluctantly, Eleanor tends to Richard and as he eventually begins to heal, she finds this Richard is completely different.<br />This new and improved Richard, the one from the future, who fell down and most likely died while exploring the medieval keep took the place of his namesake.  Richard's mind is from the future, but his body is now that of a younger man (a body better than he ever had in the future).  Eleanor is the picture of his beloved deceased wife, but looks at him with fear and much less than affection.  Not knowing the language, old French Norman, he must find a way to communicate and win the love of his wife while surviving in a land that would label him possessed while he tried to acquire the skills of a warrior to survive. He is faced with insurmountable problems in order to disguise his true identity and convince Eleanor of his love, and to overcome the treachery that abounds in that period.<br />This is a fascinating book! It is fast paced and quite intriguing.  I have always thought that the more believable time travels were such as this, where it is the soul transported, or the `essence' of the person rather than the body that gets catapulted back into time.  Ms. Kelleher appears to have done a marvelous job of research in describing the historical elements of the time period. All lovers of time travel should look to acquire this book for their keeper shelves! Superb read!	2003-02-20
1222264:US	45284807	R2YK2EKO3D5RIN	0515134368	752276269	The Penwyth Curse (Song Series)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	The Plot Sounded Good !	I am an avid reader of historical romances and have been very fortunate in my selections to find books that appeal to my sense of romance and emotions. I myself rely heavily on reviews and authors track records, and even if a book does get slammed, if it is from an author whose excellence has been proven in the past, I try to still give it an unbiased read.<br />Set in the 13th century, this tells the story of Merryn, a young woman who is forced to marry four times and is widowed and still a maiden when Sir Bishop of Lythe arrives at castle Penwyth. (This plot line sounded real interesting to me!)  Penwyth bears the brunt of an ancient curse, which declares that no man will ever take Penwyth, or it's heiress, by force. All four husbands died within hours of storming the castle and seizing Merryn. Is the curse real or is their foul play at work?  Bishop is wise enough to take precautions and figures he'll be safe if he woos the lady first. He starts to settle into life at the castle, then he starts having dreams featuring an unknown wizard and witch and this is where I feel the novel itself starts falling apart - at least for me.<br />The dream-story/real time story - eventually overpowers the romance between Merryn and Bishop and at one point - I wasn't sure who the story was about as I believe there was an editing mistake that spoke of Bishop but the story seemed to be related to the dream couple.  It was very convoluted and difficult to follow.  The jumping around from past to present left me dizzy.  Bottom line, I couldn't find myself getting emotionally involved with either couple and although there were a few quite humorous moments in the dialogs, I didn't find it to be an enjoyable and relaxing read - it was too much work to figure out who was who and where!	2003-02-19
1225043:US	45284807	R1ILEEE5TYAR43	0425186857	390389589	From This Moment On (de Piaget Family)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Outstanding - One of Kurland's BEST!	First of all - I LOVED this story - and believe I read it with a perpetual smile on my face.  There were no scenes of hot sexual encounters, which I do admit to enjoying, but it was a different kind of love story that I found to be exquisitely funny and moving at the same time with a cast of characters that will remain forever in my heart.  First introduced in Kurland's previous novel, \\"This Is All I Ask\\", Colin of Berkhamshire, aka the Butcher of Berkhamshire, is so fearsome that all of his prospective brides have created impressive excuses to avoid marrying him-all except one. Alienore of Sologne, causing Colin immense embarrassment.  Where the others at least had the decency to see him - Alienore simply ran away!<br />Fearing her murderous step-mother as much as the much maligned Butcher of Berkhamshire, Ali disguised herself, and had secured a position for the past two years attending Lady Sybil of Maignelay as the knight, Sir Henri. Alienore accompanies Sybil to meet the man to whom she has been `secretly' betrothed to - and who else could the bridegroom be, but the infamous Butcher.  To Ali's horror, Colin who is the consummate warrior, makes it his mission to teach the inept \\"Sir Henri\\" sword skills and `manliness' of speech and mannerisms as he felt sorry for the very slight and `oh so pretty' knight.<br />Colin, who in spite of his magnificent fighting skills, gruff, menacing demeanor, and his rather `ripe' odor - is really sweet and lovable as he continually surprises Sir Henri with kindly overtures - and begins to wonder himself what the attraction is for this rather `attractive' knight.  As Ali gets discovered and blackmailed by the evil Sir Etienne, she would like to tell Colin who she is but Etienne convinces her that if he ever finds out `who' she is Colin will `kill' her!  Suffice it to say that once the discovery is made, the `wooing' is priceless beyond measure!<br />This, in my opinion is Kurland at her absolute best!  I so love the entire de Piaget series and never want to see it end!  This is another one for my keeper shelf and I so hope that the de Piaget's and friends remain fruitful enough to continue down through the generations.e Piaget series and never want to see it end!  This is another one for my keeper shelf and I so hope that the de Piaget's and friends remain fruitful enough to continue down through the generations.	2003-02-17
1227144:US	45284807	R1U61P47D51C6A	0505524961	881234516	Spirit of the Mist	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enchanting Love Story in Druid Ireland	Muriel gazed into her water mirror on a very stormy night and saw a man adrift in a curragh (boat) being tossed around and about to crash into the cliffs at the base of the land.  Knowing that she must save him she slips down to the sea, walks into it and calls to her friends - two dolphins - to come and bring the boat and man to her.  The man is Brendan, the prince of Dun Bochna, who was captured, shorn of his hair, dressed in rags and set afloat in the sea to die.<br />Muriel, does not know who he is but she is attracted.  No matter what the attraction though - she knows that she cannot marry any other than a king or her powers will be stripped from her.  While the King of Dun Farraige sends riders off to find out if Brendan is who he claims to be he begins to romance Muriel without jewels and gold,  but with his charm, and the bountiful gifts he could find in nature.  Eventually the riders return to confirm that Brandon is who he claims to be but still Muriel gazes into her water mirror and sees a different and disturbing vision.  The story continues with whether Muriel trusts what is in her heart or what the water mirror shows her as truth.  The bigger question is what Muriel and Brandon both find to be the truth.<br />SPIRIT OF THE MIST is a beautiful mystical historical romance that brings to life Druid Ireland. Brendan's origins are a major theme of this novel as are Muriel's acceptance of  who he is and what he means to her.  The conflicts and turmoil that this wonderful couple go through as they discover the importance of who they are is magnificently portrayed  by this exceptionally fine novel.  At first I was concerned that Muriel was not deserving of Brendan's beautiful and thoughtful courtship with her almost selfish attitude of - I can only marry a king - but I am happy to say that when the chips were down for Brendan she rose like a phoenix to redeem herself as the helpmate that he deserved.  This is a very beautiful love story - quite enchanting!	2003-02-15
1228313:US	45284807	R3S2OR7HTFKOLJ	0312979983	76852490	Night Pleasures (Dark-Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Hot , Funny, and Exciting Paranormal Read!	This was my very first `dark hunter' book I've read. While the concept is `out there' and having been reared in that era that actually studied mythology and ancient Greece it was not that much of a `stretch' for me to become enthralled with the story. Kyrian of Thrace had lived or shall we say existed for over 2000 years having loved so much in his short human existence to have lost his life and very soul.  Now he is consigned to existing as a `dark hunter' with a code of ethics that protected humans. Not a vampire who feeds but one who tries to rid the world of the latter he shares some of the same characteristics - i.e. existing in the dark world never to feel the sun on his body which would kill him, etc.  He finds himself handcuffed to a mortal woman, Amanda Devereaux, who wants nothing more than to live a `normal' life - unlike her seven `whacked out' sisters and mother.<br />Amanda, finding herself chained to this hard-bodied stud-muffin whose very touch electrifies her like nothing she has ever experienced, would like nothing more than to indulge in her fantasies.  Kyrian, upon awakening finds himself chained to his worst nightmare - a woman who is so conservative, wants nothing to do with the paranormal world, and has awakened in him a lust he has not felt since he was mortal.  The author gives you some very humorous dialog as Kyrian can mind-read all of Amanda's fantasy pent-up sex longings.<br />The plot is fascinating, the characters and sub-characters well defined and the writing is fast- paced, exciting, and the fabulous sensual love scenes are quite stimulating .  I found it interesting that while Kyrian existed without his soul - it took Amanda such a short time to discover that he had enormous `heart' in spite of her natural tendancies to shun anything paranormal.  Also, interesting was the development of Amanda who had `gifts' herself that were quite phenomenal.  This was truly a great paranormal romance I can readily recommend.	2003-02-14
1231331:US	45284807	R3G6PYCUTHOF8C	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	25	29	N	N	SO WORTH THE READ!!!!	This book was so worth the price to buy it and absorb this story right into your soul - Lisa Kleypas does that for me - and this, as in all her novels, left me in awe!  It is the sequel to 'Lady Sophia's Lover'as our very sexy and accomplished lover/hero is Sophia's brother Nick Gentry.  In that prequel, Nick was the scourge of the bow-street runners, and at the end of that story, Nick had been blackmailed by his sister Sophia's husband Sir Ross Cannon to work for and become a bow street runner himself. Please note here that just for the record, even if you have not read the prequel - this book stands quite well on it's own.  As would happen with the runners, they would sometimes take on private investigations and so Nick was on the trail of a run away bride who had been missing for two years.  Naturally, being the best at what he does, he finds the beautiful Charlotte Howard but being so totally attracted to her and sensing her terror at being sent back she is given three choices, one of which is marrying Nick!  Being a bright girl, and also feeling the attraction she marries this very complex, and handsome man!<br />This book is HOT - STEAMY - and absolutely, deliciously SENSUAL and should come with a warning to not start it at night as you will not be able to put it down.  The very complexity of who Nick is and what make him tick is amazing and you will get this from the very first pages.  The plot is relatively simple and not a great mystery - but it is still quite an amazing read! I highly recommend this book to buy and be placed on your keeper shelf with - if you are a Lisa Kleypas fan - all of the rest of her books!	2003-02-12
1232040:US	45284807	R1H69FYCYS3H60	045120767X	653790913	Scandal	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging and Intelligent Regency	The very wealthy Gideon Harwood returned to England after an absence of close to ten years.  He had been forcibly taken from England; pressed into the navy; later escaped and vowed to not return until he had the means to make a better life for his mother and siblings.  Upon his return, it was to find his younger brother missing, mother dead, and both his sister's in dire circumstances trying to survive.  While searching for his brother, Gideon accidentally discovered a secret of one of the leading members of the ton, Lord Stanwell.  Thinking Gideon would ruin him, Stanwell offered him acceptance into society by offering him his daughter's hand in marriage.  Gideon never thought to marry, nor was he overly impressed with the Lady Julia, Stanwell's daughter - but the thought of having his dear sisters accepted by society with the chance of making advantageous marriages convinced him that he would accept the offer only upon the condition that Lady Julia convince the ton that it was a love match.<br />Lord Stanwell, being an unscrupulous rat, convinced Julia that Gideon was a dishonorable cheat but that she `must' marry this commoner for the sake of her family who would be ruined and destitute by Gideon if she refused him.  Julia believing the lies told to her by her father would do as he asked - for the sake of her siblings.  She would play the part of the love sick Miss in front of the ton, but in private she would trade insults and show her disdain for Gideon.  She knew she should hate him, but horror of horrors, why did he have to be so handsome and nice!<br />This was an engaging and intelligent regency romance - although if there had been a bit more romance and a little less antagonism between our two main protagonists I would have rated this higher as the sensuality was very well written and expressed.  The plot was quite interesting; I thoroughly enjoyed the little tidbits of history with regard to the telling of the young ladies `snail game'.  The numerous secondary characters were very interesting and I heartily look forward to and hope for sequels that will tell us who Gideon's friend Christian really is as well as a possible story for his hoyden sister `Bliss'.  This is a book I do recommend with some very inspiring dialog - for some very cleverly worded insults - very enjoyablendary characters were very interesting and I heartily look forward to and hope for sequels that will tell us who Gideon's friend Christian really is as well as a possible story for his hoyden sister `Bliss'.   This is a book I do recommend with some very inspiring dialog - for some very cleverly worded insults - very enjoyable	2003-02-11
1237848:US	45284807	R3Y4ZYNXXTBQ5	0425181979	192867956	My Heart Stood Still (Macleod Family)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	My Heart is Happy with Another Great Book from Kurland	In the fall of 1382 Scottish bride Iolanthe MacLeod, newly wed would be taken away frm her home to England and die by the sword of the Englishman who wed her when she refused to reveal the secret of the clan McLeod. It would be in this landlocked keep on the English moors, the place of her death, far from the sea she loved, where she would be doomed to roam and haunt for six centuries.<br />It is now 2001 and not knowing why, only that he felt compelled, Thomas MacLeod MacKinnon has bought the castle with the intention of restoring it. Since a child, Thomas had been `fey', with the sight and while expecting to find a ruin of a castle he was not disappointed - but to find a garrison of assorted ghosts residing in this same castle did give him pause.  It was the sight of Iolanthe that he was quite unprepared to deal with and his feelings for her - not only did she take his breath away but he was stunned when after a short time he realized that he'd fallen in love with her.<br />Although Iolanthe was somewhat content with having Thomas in her `life' such as it was he wanted more - to hold her in his arms. Through a  chance encounter with other McLeod kin he realizes that the only chance he has is to find a way to go back in time and prevent her death--and his kin can help him to achieve it.<br />My Heart Stood Still is a terrific story with a splendid cast of secondary characters `ghosties' if you will.  It is exciting, poignant, romantic and funny.  The plot is wonderfully robust and I found myself comparing this to the `Ghost and Mrs. Muir' (with the roles reversed) which was one of my favorites - only this has a much better ending! The delightful humor of Thomas dealing with the ghosts and their `ghostly squabbles' was hilarious!  A most warm, fuzzy, and excellent novel I highly recommend	2003-02-07
1240037:US	45284807	R3RDIJ9TBQI0BK	0741413892	21618571	Canceled Courtship	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sweet and Endearing	Cecilia Sentenell was thrilled to have a season in London - enjoying the sights, the shops, and that her dearest father seemed to be regaining his health made her joy that much better.  However, she was not thrilled over the attentions that the rakish Earl of Arandale seemed to be paying her. On her first ride in Hyde Park she was witness to the earl taking his mistress riding and giving her a full mouth kiss right there in public which gave her an instant dislike of his seemingly disregard for propriety! Not until several weeks had passed did her father inform her of the earl's request to court her and upon hearing this she begged her father to cancel his approval of the courtship - she would in no way agree to marriage to this man!<br />Arandale had loved once, and when his betrothed was killed he seemed to have lost his way and embraced a fast and rakish way of living. As it was time for him to set up his nursery, the earl had originally wished simply for a biddable girl of noble birth, good family that would not cause him to change his way of life - or so he told his solicitor who had picked Cecilia after looking over that seasons debutantes.  Naturally, the earl - arrogance personified - was aghast that this chit had refused his attentions!  It wasn't until he finally thought to take a good look and actually `saw' Cecilia that his feelings began to change especially after he asked her for specific reasons for refusing his suit.<br />This was a very `quick' story for me (224 pages), which I read in approximately four hours.  Regency romances are a favorite of mine to read when I am looking for something entertaining and light after a long hard day at work. The plot was not too deep and it was sweet in it's innocence - even with the addition of the not so nice cousin who wanted to compromise Cecilia into wedding him.  I especially liked the epilogue at the end that wrapped up any loose ends from so quick a story.  I could definitely recommend this to a younger audience as a good `first' introduction to regency historical romance writing.audience as a good `first' introduction to regency historical romance writing.	2003-02-05
1244078:US	45284807	R1HUL8D35LRFGF	0843951354	441281383	Lord Ruin	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Fabulously Hot Regency Story!	With the words, \\"I am sure Miss Sinclair, we will get on splendidly\\", Anne Sinclair felt the noose tighten around her neck. Granted she would have done anything to save her youngest sister Emily from the clutches of the Duke of Cynssyr, the most notorious womanizer in London leaving so many broken hearts in his wake, but this was not exactly what she had in mind.  Besides being titled, wealthy, and handsome as sin, Ruan, or Lord Ruin didn't believe in love - but as befits a duke he would have married for beauty - until fate stepped in, only it would not be Anne's sister, the divine Emily.<br />Through a case of mistaken identity, and a night of unforgettable passion  which found he and Anne totally compromised, Lord Ruin found himself marrying the bespectacled spinster sister.  Although one night of love with Anne found the `insincere Cynssyr' ruined for any other woman.  Anne, try as she might to remain emotionally unattached, would find herself tested day and night as Ruan, would worship her body and try his best to win her confidence in his quest to earn her love.<br />Let me say that this was my first book by this author and it was one that I hated to see end.  I absolutely loved these two - Ruan the rake with no conscience, hence the reputation that he rightly deserved, so it was justice that Anne, bespectacled, and not the most beautiful woman would so effectively bring him to his knees! Both, these characters were so richly complex I found it delightful to see them look deeper than the outer skin to discover more than what they appeared to be.  Ruan would find that Anne was the most beautiful and passionate  `soul' he had ever encountered, and Anne would find Ruan to be more than the womanizing cynic he appeared. They also had a most amazingly hot and steamy sexual attraction that just sizzles!<br />Additionally, the numerous secondary characters along with the mystery of the serial rapists and killers that are intertwined into the story give the book a depth that is quite intoxicating and hard to put down.  I sincerely hope that Ms. Jewel continues with sequels to include stories for Devon and Emily and for the other wonderful characters who deserve their own stories.  Most definitely, put this on you buy list and `keeper' shelf to enjoy again.that is quite intoxicating and hard to put down.  I sincerely hope that Ms. Jewel continues with sequels to include stories for Devon and Emily and for the other wonderful characters who deserve their own stories.   Most definitely, put this on you buy list and `keeper' shelf to enjoy again.	2003-02-02
1245308:US	45284807	R2PPLPM7UP3FUI	0425169707	377844166	Veils of Time (Macleod Family)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Great Time Travel Stories	And the Groom Wore Tulle - Lynn Kurland -This short story follows Ian MacLeod from the Scottish Highlands dungeon of his arch enemy William Ferguson in 1313 to the backroom of a bridal boutique in New York city 1999.  Ian MacLeod was thought to be dead and in disposing of his body, the knaves dropped him off in just the right forest that contained the portal to the future and his kinsman, Jamie MacLeod - only geographically he ended up thousands of miles off the mark but thankfully with a young woman who after her initial shock, took him in and would help him find his way home - somewhat the same way he would find his way into her heart.  Fast, and amusing tale, highly entertaining.  4*<br />The Con and The Crusader - Maggie Shayne -  This was a real cute story of a consummate con man, Jack McCain, about to be blown away by the mob, jumps into a well, and swears if he gets one last chance to mend his ways, he will `work' as hard as he can for a living. Naturally, this is a `time machine' well and he ends up 100 years in the past where `hard work' is a way of life.  He is picked up by the local sheriff and herded along with a prison work gang until the widow Hawkins, needing a handyman and not able to hire one, uses a little used rule where a woman could save a man from prison if he wanted to marry her.  Well, getting married was not in this con man's agenda but it sure beats prison and before he new it his heart was captured!  3-1/2*<br />A Bride Most Common -  Angie Ray - I really liked this one, where the time travel was planned with a unique way of transporting a person's consciousness into a person on the verge of dying in another time, namely Regency England.  The plain, short, but quite intelligent Lucy Taylor was hurtled back into the beautiful but impoverished Lady Cynthia's body just as she was about to take her wedding vows! Not quite revived from the transformation, she found herself agreeing to be married.  Now she had a month to build an antique radio, right a mistake that could change environmental hazards, and put off consummating a marriage to a perfectly handsome studmuffin that was her husband!  4*<br />Conyn's Bride - Ingrid Weaver - On the eve of her wedding, Alanna Moore, museum curator, slips on an old bracelet she is cataloging, and is trying to get some last minute details completed when the lights go out and out of nowhere appears this handsome hunk, dressed in little more than leather pants, and a cloak who calls her by name and knows everything there is to know about her. He is Conan ap Rhys and he is back to wed her.  - This was a delight and thoroughly enjoyable. I loved the poetically sensual dialog Conan uses as he tries to convince Alanna of their past love.  Great story. 5*right a mistake that could change environmental hazards, and put off consummating a marriage to a perfectly handsome studmuffin that was her husband!  4*<br />Conyn's Bride - Ingrid Weaver - On the eve of her wedding, Alanna Moore, museum curator, slips on an old bracelet she is cataloging, and is trying to get some last minute details completed when the lights go out and out of nowhere appears this handsome hunk, dressed in little more than leather pants, and a cloak who calls her by name and knows everything there is to know about her. He is Conan ap Rhys and he is back to wed her.  - This was a delight and thoroughly enjoyable. I loved the poetically sensual dialog Conan uses as he tries to convince Alanna of their past love.  Great story. 5*	2003-01-31
1247012:US	45284807	R31NMDX2HFDBN6	0425182371	838816202	The Very Thought of You (Macleod Family)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not the Best Kurland book	Alexander Smith is a modern day man who has made a ton of money in the cut throat business world as something of a corporate raider.  While visiting relatives in Scotland he finds a map in his brother-in-law's study indicating time travel `portals'.  Thinking that after 30 plus days of rain he could end up in sunny Barbados (which was clearly noted on the map) as enough of an incentive,  Alexander to considers giving it a try.  He hops on his horse, heads out to the land marked faery ring, somehow makes a wrong turn and ends up in Medieval England.<br />Clearly recognizing that this was not Barbados, and failing to return home, Alexander realizes that he must have a mission to complete before he can leave. Then he meets Lady Margaret of Falconberg, a spirited amazon of a woman determined to protect her home from the dreaded Ralf de Brackwald.  Dressed in chain mail and brandishing all kinds of weapons Margaret thinking she has captured Edward, the brother of her enemy, she kidnaps him from the Brackwald keep.  Instead, she ends up with Alex!  What follows is the tale of their courtship.<br />Now having read all of the de Piaget family series books by Lynn Kurland which were so very emotional, sensitive, and moving, I have to say, I was somewhat disappointed in the flatness of this book and these characters.  Margaret, having led a tough life and holding together her property for 10 years after the death of her father had to be tough, but I have to say that she did not come off as a very endearing person to me.  I didn't feel any warmth of character with her and I only got a little emotional with Alex when he saved the 3 year old Amery.  The character of Margaret's bard, Baldric, I also felt was flat and his verse was not very enjoyable.  There were numerous secondary characters in this tale, but I couldn't raise my enthusiasm level up enough to jump into the melee.  It wasn't until nearly the end of the book when Alex's family came looking for them that I felt more life in the tale.  I will read more of Kurland's MacLeod series, but honestly must say that I did not enjoy this one as much as all those in the de Piaget family series and cannot enthusiastically recommend this particular book.re life in the tale.  I will read more of Kurland's MacLeod series, but honestly must say that I did not enjoy this one as much as all those in the de Piaget family series and cannot enthusiastically recommend this particular book.	2003-01-30
1250208:US	45284807	R38JQ5U3U2RDXC	0425186865	171452887	The Forest Lord (The Fane, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fabulous Introduction to this Author!	Herne is the forest lord of the legendary Fane, or faery world. He couldn't be with others of his ilk until he presents them a halfling child born of himself and a human woman to strengthen the weakened fane blood line. When the Earl of Bradwell breaks the age-old rule of not hunting in the forest protected by the Forest Lord, Herne agrees to let the Earl live if he agrees to let Herne marry his daughter.  In order to save himself, the Earl agrees with the provision that Herne must present himself to Eden as a human and woo her, without trickery, into falling in love with him.<br />The young, Lady Eden is presented to a handsome man introduced to her as Cornelius Fleming, a cousin from India.  He woos her, she falls in love, and he convinces her to run to Gretna with him to be married but they stop and consummate the pairing before marriage.  The earl catches up to them before the marriage and through foul means manages to trick the Forest Lord into revealing his true appearance to Eden who is at once, devastated, fleeing in horror, then finds out later she is pregnant.<br />Eden bears the child who she is told was still-born at birth, then she is shipped off to London to an arranged marriage to a minor noble who turns out to be a rake who uses her, and gambles away all her money, then finally, taunting her that her son was alive, did her the great favor of dying. Alone, with just her faithful Aunt Claudia, Eden returns to the only un-entailed property she owns, Hartsmere.  It is there she finds her beautiful son Donal and she is fully intent upon becoming a good mother.<br />Six years have passed, the Forest Lord, awakens and returns as well to find Eden who has just come home to Hartsmere.  He also discovers he was lied to and his son still lives.  His hatred knows no bounds and he will punish the woman who tried to cheat him of his child before he ultimately takes him away.  Only, as he weaves his way into Eden's life, he finds that his hatred is not as strong as a very new feeling - normally foreign to a fane - could it be love?<br />This is the first book I've read by this author and I found it to be a wonderfully magical, mystical, and sensual read. You will feel the betrayal of the unsuspecting Eden, by those she trusted to be every bit as devastating as one could imagine, as well as being caught up in the heart-stopping, cliff hanging and surprise ending.  The pace through out the book was non-stop with a wonderful cast of secondary characters adding to a complete feel of contentment over this great read! Another one for the keeper shelf!s a very new feeling - normally foreign to a fane - could it be love? <br />This is the first book I've read by this author and I found it to be a wonderfully magical, mystical, and sensual read. You will feel the betrayal of the unsuspecting Eden, by those she trusted to be every bit as devastating as one could imagine, as well as being caught up in the heart-stopping, cliff hanging and surprise ending.  The pace through out the book was non-stop with a wonderful cast of secondary characters adding to a complete feel of contentment over this great read! Another one for the keeper shelf!	2003-01-28
1252661:US	45284807	R3E0C2QAI9XO9C	0425171078	81293212	The More I See You (de Piaget Family)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Emotionally Charged Time Travel!	Jessica Blakely accepts a blind date for a trip to England, only to find that the `date' is a total jerk and she does her best to avoid him. Escaping into a deserted garden she thinks about her life so far and wishes on a star for a knight in shining armour and a man who could love her at least as much as he loves himself.  Don't we all wish for that at times, but in a Lynn Kurland novel, the magical does happen, a fog rolls in, and when it lifts she is in the midst of a hunt of some sort and an armored knight is snatching her up and out of the way of snarling dogs and galloping horses.<br />Richard of Burwyck-on-the-Sea isn't one to be chivalrous, but leaving a lovely woman to the drunken and brutal ministrations of his brother Hugh would insult what little chivalrous sensibilities he has.  He takes her home, wondering along the way why he bothers, as she tries, not once, but twice to steal his horse.  Jessica has not realized where she really is - like 700 years in the past - and keeps thinking to get back to the party she had left.<br />In finally sinks in and Jessica realizes that this isn't some well-rehearsed play with great actors, but that she really is in medieval England and this obnoxious, unsmiling knight, is for real and more than that, she is rather taken with him. As the time progresses and Jessica saves his life, Richard discovers that this very stubborn woman has captured his heart. Richard was terribly abused as a child, so it has taken him some time to trust her with his heart, and now believing her explanations of where she came from, he worries over will she stay or spirit it away.<br />I loved this story, and was so happy to be reintroduced to some of the characters from the other books in the de Piaget family series.  In spite of the humor that she slips in, there is always some underlying hint of sadness that is usually gut-wrenching and tear jerking that give her stories such emotion.  So often, I get so involved in to her stories that I really have to give myself a shake and remember - it's only fiction - fabulous- but fiction nonetheless.  This is another book to sit alongside the other Kurland's on my keeper shelf.eally have to give myself a shake and remember - it's only fiction - fabulous- but fiction nonetheless.   This is another book to sit alongside the other Kurland's on my keeper shelf.	2003-01-26
1255536:US	45284807	R4VGK3FW8KTBU	0425180336	619951253	This is all I ask (de Piaget Family)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Powerfully Sensitive Love Story	All I can say is that I just oohed and ahhed thru practically this entire book! This was just so tender, and so heart wrenchingly sweet that I couldnt help myself  that and the tears for such tender scenes of love and thanksgiving that two tortured souls could find each other to love and heal.<br />Gillian of Warwick, physically and mentally abused by her most hateful and brutal father was to be married to the Dragon of Blackmour.  Having heard the tales of his devil Gillian would have remained with the beast that was her father had not the knight sent to retrieve her given her any choice.<br />Christopher, the Dragon of Blackmour, had no more need of a wife, but had pledged his word of honor to his friend, her deceased brother, that he would take care of her to save her from the beast that was her father. Christopher had loved once, fully and foolishly, and had no more desire to repeat a mistake that had cost him so very much  but he was honor bound to keep his pledge.  Christophers pledge along with a little bit of help from a few witches would finally enable them to be able to live one of the most powerful and sensitive love stories I have had the pleasure to read in a very long time.<br /><br />The secondary characters are brilliantly portrayed and add a lushness and wonderful humor to this tale  from the inept witches, fierce knights with teddy bear hearts, and loyal friends who make this story so much more than just another run of the mill romance.  There was just so much more to savor with the less than perfect hero and heroine, with everything that they had to overcome, that like me, I am sure you will be oohing and ahhing with a handy box of tissues by your side as well.  Most definitely this one is for my keeper shelf.	2003-01-23
1257666:US	45284807	R326KMXSL4WVDQ	0425176940	780656814	If I Had You (de Piaget Family)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A SURE Winner!	Anne of Fenwyck has loved her foster brother, Robin de Piaget, since they were children. Robin was smitten himself when he first laid eyes on her, and boys being boys, he put a frog down her dress to show his affection.  When they were younger, the two of them had been as close as could be, but because of an act of humiliation Robin felt so profound, he kept himself and his heart away from Anne for fear that she would find him lacking. As soon as he could, he went off to war, determined to forget Anne, and prove himself.<br />Robin has grown up to become a most fierce and feared knight and has stayed away for five long years yet when he learns that Anne's father is husband-hunting he rushes home before it is too late. Proficient in war, but unskilled in wooing his surliness soon works to a distinct disadvantage as he tries to get on Anne's good side.<br />Knowing Robin's heart better than he knows himself, his brother Nicolas and his very strong-willed and domineering grandmother set out to bring a bit of chivalry to this fearsome knight!  As if Robin didn't have enough on his plate trying to woo his lady, there is an evil plot afoot to take Anne from him before he ever makes her his.<br />I have to credit Kurland  with creating a most beautiful and enjoyable love story.  I absolutely adored the love and warmth portrayed by the sibling rivalries of this loving de Piaget family.  It was both hilarious and touching to `feel' the love and tenderness between these siblings as they beat on each other whether it be with words or fists.  Her portrayal of Robin so manly and strong, yet so boyishly awkward when trying to woo Anne was nothing short of brilliant.  Kurland draws you in and makes you one of the family, and I can hardly wait to for the next family reunion.  Highly entertaining and heartwarming, this book will retain a space on my keeper shelf.	2003-01-22
1259680:US	45284807	R2ML69MNEXTTKW	0425165140	658645588	Another Chance to Dream	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fabulous Read	Young Gwennelyn of Segrave picked her champion, landless knight Rhys de Piaget when she was but a child of 10 and he only 14 when he rescued her from a pigsty.  Unfortunately, Gwen's father had already betrothed her to Alain of Ayre, a spoiled, mean, and lackwitted son of a neighbor. Stubborn to a fault, once she knows that Rhys returns her love Gwen will let nothing daunt her once her mind is made up and is determined that Rhys will be hers.  Rhys goes away to earn money in tournaments as a mercenary in order to bribe or buy Gwen out of her betrothal to Alain.  Returning finally to claim Gwen,  matters do not progress as planned when Alain forces Gwen into marriage and Rhys must not only stand by and watch but endure two years as the captain of Gwen's guard.  The pain and heartbreak of these two will make you cry.<br />In spite of the obstacles they must endure, Rhys and Gwen's love and commitment holds firm. The incredible struggles and betrayals they must overcome in order to be together would be almost too sad to endure if not for the comic relief of Gwen and the numerous secondary characters that are incorporated into this full bodied, robust and fast paced medieval.  You will find yourself delightfully amused with the antics of the 'Viking' Fitzgerald twins who taught `young' Rhys everything he knows...and find yourself panting in anticipation for the sequels to this wonderfully written book.  This is well worth your read and sure to end up on your keeper shelf.	2003-01-20
1263374:US	45284807	R346QLC145V3WY	055357566X	418417772	Betrothed	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding Read	Baron Guy of  Montague came to Lonsdale with the intention of  regaining Halford Hall -- prepared to buy or lay siege in order to get what was really his by right.  On the way into the keep he noticed a maid standing in the doorway of the chapel and he was bewitched.  Finding  her later in the chapel garden, he knew he had to have her at all costs but events would unfold that put both their lives in danger before he could set in motion his plans to ask for her hand in marriage.<br />Lady Claudia Chiavari, half Italian, half English, was the despised niece of  Baron Lonsdale and for the last five years her life had been treated little better than the lowliest servant. With Baron Lonsdale thinking that Guy Montague was going to back out of the deal, he concocted an elaborate scheme in which he drugged Guy and his niece; transported Guy into his nieces bedchamber stripping both of them naked so that he could then force Guy into a betrothal and marriage to his niece thereby gaining more money in the dower price.  Both were locked up. Claudia, overhearing the rest of her uncle's plan, found out that he also planned murder.  Claudia would then risk her life to rescue Guy and escape. Guy, thinking that the Claudia was part of the elaborate scheme, would take Claudia with him, but as his prisoner.<br />Being Italian and not always being understood had made her life quite solitary.  She had no friends and was looked down upon as a foreigner.  Her distrust of the English made it difficult to understand what Guy wanted from her. She found him intoxicating, but having lost everyone she ever loved, she would not take the chance of being his mistress and then being tossed aside when he tired of her.  Guy, on the other hand, could not consider marriage now, after being tricked by her uncle no matter how much he burned for her. Treachery abounds with more threats from relatives, murder attempts and betrayals before either could trust one another to admit what was in their hearts.<br />This was an amazingly intense historical romance that absolutely sizzles with sensuality.  The characters are totally believable and so very much in love that you really have to root for them.  The prequel The Warlord was outstanding, although more humorous, by this relatively new author and I certainly hope she can continue with more sequels to this series as I could certainly envision entirely new stories with the outstanding secondary characters that she brought to life in this book, such as Claudia's brother Dante.  This is an outstanding read and certainly stands alone but you will find it all that more enjoyable if you read The Warlord first.r />This was an amazingly intense historical romance that absolutely sizzles with sensuality.  The characters are totally believable and so very much in love that you really have to root for them.  The prequel The Warlord was outstanding, although more humorous, by this relatively new author and I certainly hope she can continue with more sequels to this series as I could certainly envision entirely new stories with the outstanding secondary characters that she brought to life in this book, such as Claudia's brother Dante.  This is an outstanding read and certainly stands alone but you will find it all that more enjoyable if you read The Warlord first.	2003-01-17
1263796:US	45284807	RBAUQOVHMXI82	042518238X	399688217	Stardust of Yesterday (de Piaget Family)	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Lovely Ghost Story	Genevieve thought her life was complete with a thriving restoration business she had built from the ground up. Then out of the blue, Genevieve inherits a castle, but she must live there.  Her first thoughts were to turn it down until mysteriously, her clients started firing her from all her big accounts. She gratefully accepts the inheritance and travels to England to take possession but what she didn't expect was that the castle came with an incredibly sexy 13th century knight. Unfortunately, he's a ghost, who is bent on getting rid of the last of her line so that he can finally be free of his 700 year old curse.<br />With no where else to go, Genevieve digs in her heels and refuses to be scared away.  Soon she and Kendrick de Paiget are coexisting in the castle and Kendrick comes to admire the saucy wench's `spunk'.  There are some humorous scenes here that the reader will enjoy as they learn to coexist together. ...<br />I was totally enjoying this book but the reason I am not giving it a better rating was the unbelievable conception that after a particularly emotional last gasp type of romantic encounter, ... I have to say that the story was quite good and it is something that I can definitely recommend.  I do disagree with another reviewer that it should be tossed out after Kendrick becomes mortal again as the last half of the book is interesting in finding out who and why someone wants to kill Genevieve.	2003-01-17
1265330:US	45284807	RBG6Z76404TLY	0553569112	585755740	Scoundrel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Historical Romance	Lady Lily Walters appears as an empty headed flirt, flitting about the ton when in actuality she is a master cryptologist working for the war department. In her private musings she would love to be recognized as intelligent but knew that until the war was over it was necessary to continue playing the part. Secrets must be kept and one, which was close to her heart, was the secret love she felt for Miles Montague, the duke of Remmington, whom she knew didn't know she was alive. Out of the blue he requested an introduction and asked for a dance but it did not take Lily long to realize that his request was to use her for an ulterior motive - namely making another Lady jealous.  Lily felt humiliated and let him know that she recognized what he was doing.<br />Later the same evening as Lily was preparing for bed, she was attacked in her home but escaped and ran through the streets in her nightclothes whereupon who other, but the Duke of Remmington, would come to her aid to rescue her.  Though he tries to get Lily out of town for her safety, her father, Lord Crofford agrees that she would stay at the Duke's home until the assailant was brought to justice.  Unbeknownst to Lily, Remmington, has always admired her but knew her for an innocent and vowed to never form any long term attachments, having been betrayed by his former wife.  The attraction builds  as the days progress and Remmington begins to suspect that there is more to Lily than the public persona she portrays as empty headed.<br />At a houseparty, a private meeting goes awry where Lily's reputation is so compromised that Remmington must marry her.  For Lily, who loves him, it is an answer to her prayers, but he is adamant that love is something he cannot offer - friendship, loyalty and respect but never love.  Naturally he tries to fight his attraction for his wife but as more attempts are made on her life, he will soon come to realize that she is more than just his friend and bedmate -- she is the center of his world.<br />This was a very rich and sensual love story, steeped in intrigue and mystery.  The characters are complex, interesting and intelligent and the seduction is divinely sensual - extremely well written this is a most enjoyable read I can highly recommend.is world.  <br />This was a very rich and sensual love story, steeped in intrigue and mystery.  The characters are complex, interesting and intelligent and the seduction is divinely sensual - extremely well written this is a most enjoyable read I can highly recommend.	2003-01-16
1267046:US	45284807	R2VH9KDG2WO4YD	0380818043	90358606	After the Abduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 3)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Hot and Sexy	After the Abduction takes off where A Notorious Love ended.  After two London Seasons -- and so many boring society suitors -- lovely Juliet Laverick still longs for the only man to make her heart race, namely, Morgan Pryce, the dashing rogue who kidnapped her two years ago.  With the help of her brother-in-law Griff and sister Rosalind, together they track Morgan to the estate of Charnwood, to find Sebastian, Lord Templemore and Morgan's identical twin brother.  It is here that Sebastian delivers the devastating news, that his brother Morgan was feared dead. Naturally, Juliet does not believe him as she instinctively knows that Sebastian is her kidnapper, no matter what he calls himself, and will use any means to trick him into admitting that he was her kidnapper.<br />Confessing to her abduction would bring disaster and scandal upon them both and might prove fatal for his brother who he was trying to save.  Feeling remorse and longing for Juliet, Sebastian cannot trust her to open his heart and tell his secret for fear of compromising his attempts at saving his brother from the hangman.  Sebastian wants nothing more than to continue with the one kiss he stole from Juliet the night he left her that has haunted him for the last two years - and Juliet, now two years wiser will use her feminine wiles to gain his confession.<br />The sexual chemistry between Sebastian and Juliet is incredible and the dialog between them is quite witty. The seduction scenes are so hot that you will find yourself squirming with delight.  I loved when Sebastian set out to make her \\"heart race and her bones melt\\" which was innocent enough -but when he set her on a pedestal - well - you will just have to read that one yourself! WOW!  The story is fast paced and will keep you turning the pages just in anticipation!	2003-01-14
1267338:US	45284807	R3KGBGI3SATMK1	0380818035	134653292	A Notorious Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Notoriously HOT!	In this marvelous offering from Sabrina Jeffries's follow-up to A Dangerous Love, readers are re-introduced to Lady Helena Laverick. She is a bit of a stick in the mud, ever-so-proper, and distrusts most men on sight.  Lady Helena, does have a history with Daniel Brennan from the previous novel and it is touched on and explained here briefly. When she finds that her sister Juliet has eloped with a man she feels is a fortune hunter; and subsequent digging lead her to believe the man might also be a smuggler; she enlists the aid of Daniel Brennan knowing that his past associations with smugglers might help her in saving her sister.<br />When Daniel answers her knock on his door dressed only in his drawers she is embarrassed but secretly captivated and would like to have stared only it would not have been seemly for the disciple of Mrs. Nunley's Guide to Etiquette for Young Ladies.  It was only her unfailing love and terror of her sister's plight that would have led Helena to renew her acquaintance with Daniel who had proven himself false to her before, but she needed his assistance and knew that he would be discreet.  If not for her, she knew he would do whatever was necessary for the sake of her brother-in-law who Daniel had once worked for.<br />Daniel would have liked to have set out alone to follow the pair but Helena was determined that she would accompany him.  Daniel had to fight his attraction to her every step of the way. But Helena is determined to help find her sister, and maybe if she provoked Daniel enough she just might see that underneath her animosity, she was fighting her own fatal attraction.<br />With her trademark hot sensuality and outrageously humorous dialog, the reader is once again in for a wonderful non-stop read.  I loved that again, she has give us a heroine that is flawed, with a crippled leg, and love the way our hero teaches the heroine that the only flaw, was Helena's way of thinking.  This was a beautiful, funny, feel-good, and sensual story that is a wonderful addition to this trilogy. I am looking forward to the next sequel with heartfelt anticipationl story that is a wonderful addition to this trilogy. I am looking forward to the next sequel with heartfelt anticipation	2003-01-14
1271413:US	45284807	R2PNK7ATXYV8E2	0380809281	451484298	A Dangerous Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 1)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Wonderfully Sexy Love Story	Griff Knighton has fought the sting of his alleged bastardy all his life and has been sent a proposition from the Earl of Swanlea.  Marry one of his three daughters and he will provide the proof of Griff's parents marriage.  Setting up an elaborate scheme with his man of affairs,  he would switch places with him and they would travel to Swanlea so that he can search the estate for the certificate without having to be bothered to court and flatter the three spinster sisters.<br /> Now we have the heroine - a bit long in the tooth - known to be one of the three Swanlea Spinsters - Rosalind to be exact  - the middle sister - but with a vast difference for most heroines - she is not this tiny, petite, svelte, wisp of a girl!  What Rosalind is is an opinionated, tall, sturdy, voluptuous Amazon - you've got to love this!  She senses, that all is not right with this `man of affairs' and decides to stick to him like glue after she caught him rifling through her father's desk at night.  Now the fun begins!<br />Between the double entendres, and the insults the fact remains that Rosalind has this amazing attraction for Griff that he finds extremely hard to control.  First of all, he can't seem to control his nether regions when around Rosalind so he feels he must shock her with his risqu&eacute; allusions to some of Shakespeare's more bawdy dialogs. (And might I say that until reading this novel, I have now come to appreciate Shakespeare all that much more myself!)<br />This was so much fun to read! I absolutely loved both the main players of this novel.  They were vibrant and really came to life under the direction of Ms. Jeffries.  The sex was so hot to make you burn - the laughs had me wiping my eyes and holding my stomach - and the love story itself was precious!  Griff's preoccupation with proving his legitimacy and furthering his company was uppermost in his mind. No matter how great the passion he still had to recognize the most precious thing of all -  his heart had been missing until Rosalind helped him find it.  This was a wonderful `feel good' sexy love story!missing until Rosalind helped him find it.  This was a wonderful `feel good' sexy love story!	2003-01-11
1272540:US	45284807	RA74VY32RIPQN	0380817896	542474557	Claiming the Highlander (The MacAllisters)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unusual Heroine	It is said that Braden MacAllister, English baron and proud Highlander warrior, can fell an enemy with a single blow -- and a woman with a single kiss.  Maggie had heard all these stories and more, but she had loved Braden MacAllister with her whole heart and soul - ever since she was a little girl.  Only, she knew that the man, Braden was not the young boy who was her hero - he had grown up to be a man who she knew could never love her - plain ole Maggie with her ugly brown shoes.<br />Maggie had tired of seeing the people she loved killed because of feud that should have no reason for being - having lost two of her six brothers she vowed she lose no more!  She had convinced the woman from both feuding clans to join them in their quest to make the men stop the feud by refusing them loving (sex) and cooking.  The men thought that if anyone could convince Maggie of her folly it would be BRADEN MacAllister - for no woman alive could resist him - and had they known how Maggie had always loved him there would have been no doubt in their minds that he could convince her to yield and have the women return to their men.<br />As much as Maggie's treacherous body wanted to succumb to Braden - she would will herself to refuse him. She knew who he was - A MAN WHO LOVED WOMEN - ALL WOMEN!  Maggie & Braden's story was a definite change from the norm proving that every woman is not \\"the most beautiful woman\\" the hero was ever laid eyes.  What was interesting about this was that having grown up with Maggie - he had never known `who' she was but it took a journey that they might not return from to show him that she really was so special that he would forever more be ruined for any other woman!<br />This was another fine offering from the pen of Kinley MacGregor showing a depth of emotion and that was quite refreshing in that our heroine wasn't `drop dead gorgeous' and our hero could see her for who she was!  The secondary character of Braden's brother Sin was a real tease and I can hardly wait to read his story!  The trademark witty dialog was humorous and the very descriptive sexual yearnings of what they'd like to do and when they finally did get around to doing `it' was hot!  Good read!I can hardly wait to read his story!  The trademark witty dialog was humorous and the very descriptive sexual yearnings of what they'd like to do and when they finally did get around to doing `it' was hot!  Good read!	2003-01-10
1272909:US	45284807	REVTCVYA8MKPP	0061087130	349244617	Master of Desire (MacAllister Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Outstanding Love Story	This was soooooo great!  Beautiful Lady Emily dreamt of having a husband and family but knew that at her great age of two and twenty it was highly unlikely especially with her father not letting her out of his sight and refusing to allow her to marry.  But fate had a way of stepping in.  Because of quarrels between her father and a neighboring Lord, King Henry had come to adjudicate and pronounced that Sir Hugh, Emily's father no longer attack Draven de Montague.  In order for that to come about, he would place Emily in the care of Draven - who on his honor - would not let any harm come to her for a years time - lest he be drawn and quartered!<br />Well, Lady Emily didn't know about that, but what she saw of this hated enemy of her father's was the most handsomest man she ever saw and she being the spoiled and mischievous daughter who twisted her father round her finger would do her utmost to get Draven to marry her!<br />This was soooooo good.  Along with the ribald humor of her maid Alys - who had some experience with men, and Emily's intent to make the very serious and fearsome knight Draven laugh as well as fall in love with her you are in for a real treat!  Trying to get Draven to laugh or fall in love would not be an easy task as Draven had no reason to laugh. He had never been shown kindness or  and his life had been a horror with a father who had abused him unmercifully all his life until Draven himself had killed him.<br />Ms. MacGregor has given us some wonderfully rich and satisfying characterizations in Emily, Draven, his brother Simon, and several other secondary characters.  Her humor is rich and will leave you smiling throughout a goodly portion of the book and the sensuality, while not extensive, is highly pleasurable as the main characters finally fulfill their destiny!  I highly recommend this novel and look forward to reading it again and again.  Excellent read!	2003-01-10
1274427:US	45284807	R1O3B6J921FV14	0061087122	683956970	Master of Seduction (Sea Wolves Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This a Definite Winner	Now this was more like it!  It is too bad I had not read it before `Pirate of Her Own' as this is the prequel that should have been read first.  This is not to say that `Pirate....' was bad it is just that this prequel had the heart and emotion that I felt was missing from the much more lighthearted `Pirate.!<br />Lorelei Dupree was the spoiled only child of a wealthy banker engaged to be married to the highly sought after Justin Wallingford.  Lorelei had always craved excitement and when Justin had broached the idea of Lorelei helping him to set a trap to catch the infamous pirate `Black Jack Rhys' she jumped at the opportunity.  She of course never thought that Justin would be bested and she would become the hostage of Black Jack!<br />Black Jack Rhys had not intended to take any hostages but something of the fiery red haired wench had captured his imagination - and the fact that she was the fianc of the man he hated made the prospect all that much sweeter.  <br />Kidnap her he did and the games began in which two very arrogant people made a wager between them.  Lorelei swore she would have him falling in love with her and he swore he could seduce her!  Jack may have kidnapped Lorelei but it was his heart that was soon to be held hostage.<br />Along with some very witty repartee between Lorelei and Jack, which will have you laughing heartily, you will be able to see much more emotional depth of the characters that I felt was missing from her first novel. The attraction that at first enticed them slowly began to strengthen as they spent time with one another and turned into a very dynamic and very sensual love.  I highly recommend this story and definitely recommend that it be read before `Pirate of Her Own'	2003-01-09
1277381:US	45284807	RSGFYLQHXM0AN	0061087114	202371265	Pirate of Her Own, A	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Enjoyable - Quick Read	All her life, Serenity James wanted to be something more than just what was expected of a woman in the late 1700's colonial America.  She wanted adventure and so using her imagination she penned stories to run in her father's newspaper.  Unfortunately, it came about that one of the stories she had written of the dreaded pirate - the Sea Wolf came too close to the truth.<br />Morgan Drake was the Sea Wolf - and a lot of other names fit as well - and he was going to find out from this S.S. James just where `he' got his information from to have written this story.  Of course, the only information he got was the truth that one, S.S. James was a woman, and two, she really didn't know who the Sea Wolf was.  But of course, she being highly intelligent - she surmised from his anger over the story that he, Morgan Drake, was the pirate and she would get the story of her life if she could just get him to agree to an interview.  Well, on her way to beard the lion in his den - so to speak - Serenity is abducted by a friend of Morgan's who determined that she knew too much. One thing led to another, and they set sail with Serenity as the hostage.<br />This was a cute story, with several amusing moments between two very stubborn people.  Morgan and Serenity were both smitten with one another but too stubborn to admit to it so they fought instead with some hilarious dialogs.  I consider this more of an amusing `light' read to pass an afternoon, nothing that would keep me in suspense to stay up at night.  What could have made this story more meaty would have been for the author to have delved more into the background of the main characters which would have given this book more of an emotional punch rather than the gloss over of some very turbulent childhoods that would have 'really' been interesting.  All in all, it was a good story and well worth your time to read it.	2003-01-07
1280945:US	45284807	R29E6YR3QXA2KR	050552368X	618246145	Bewitching the Baron (Heartspell)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Extremely Enjoyable	Baron Ravenall, Nathaniel Warrington was more or less sent to his inherited property, Ravenall, in exile until the scandal that he was part of had died down. He did not expect to meet the very beautiful and mysterious healer Valerian.  She was an enigma to him - living so simply, yet her speech and intelligence belied a learned woman who was also possessed of strength of character quite unknown to him in a female of his acquaintance.<br />Living simply with her Aunt, Valerian possessed a gift of healing that was at once sought after yet feared by the village folk.  Had they but known the real gift she possessed she would have been accused of witchcraft by the ignorant amongst them. Yet, Nathaniel as he became friends with her was more broad-minded or was it simply her bewitching him in his lust to possess her body as his friends and family feared.<br />I have to say that I really enjoyed this story.  It had a touch of the mystical to it as to Valerian and her aunt's special gifts - but what I found to be of more value was the depth of the human emotions that were dealt with in respect to family and friends.  I loved the strength of character given to Valerian.  This strength would not allow her to just up and marry Nathaniel, no matter how much she loved him, in spite of his many attempts to convince her.  She saw that he had to `heal' and deal with his past before they could have a future.  This story was what one could describe as an intelligent and thought provoking romance.  It also has some very amusing episodes with Valerian's talking `Raven'.  This was quite an excellent read, amusing, sensual, and thought provoking, that I can highly recommend	2003-01-04
1285342:US	45284807	R3CRCZ59PMQR3Q	0553574795	130743818	Dangerous to Hold	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hold this One in your Hands to Re-read Again and Again	Fiery haired Catherine Courtnay, independent, brave, and often times foolhardy knew when she ventured into an area known for housing the demimonde, that it was dangerous but that did not frighten her, she was armed and she was also determined. However, being accosted by the infamous Earl of Wrotham who accused her of being his missing wife -that shook her to the depths of her soul.  As cool as could be with a tongue-lashing he would not forget, Marcus Lytton was assured that this prim and proper lady was nothing like his missing wife Catalina - although the resemblance was remarkable.<br />After several attempts had been made on his life, Marcus offered Catherine a sum of money and convinced her to play the part of his wife, in order to draw out his missing bride.  Marcus was convinced Catalina had to be the one instigating the attempts on his life.  Catherine agreed, not for the money, although Marcus would not know this - but because in actuality she was the missing Catalina.  She had been a British agent fighting alongside the partisian in Spain when she had fallen in love with the handsome, gallant Captain Marcus during the war.  It was upon the discovery that he was the Earl of Wrotham that she thought to punish him.  She had always believed that he had been the one who had ruined her sister and thought the rake was trifling with her feelings.  She had tricked him into marriage thinking that he would have it annulled as soon as he returned to England.<br />After spending time with him she did come to the conclusion that he could not have raped her sister. Catherine hated that she felt such desire for him and wanted to end the charade as soon as possible before he discovered her secrets and betrayals.  Now, it seemed, Catherine's life was in danger as well. As their passions raged, the danger to them both increased as the betrayals began to mount into an explosive and dangerous conclusion.<br />Once again, I have had the good fortune to pick up another super good historical romance book by this author.  Smoldering passion, unbelievable and non-stop action with numerous interesting and colorful secondary characters - basically another complete read with a new and refreshingly great plot! This author has never failed to keep me on the edge of my seat holding my breath with either suspense or the exquisite sensual imagery that she so capably writes.  All her books are keepers for me!er good historical romance book by this author.  Smoldering passion, unbelievable and non-stop action with numerous interesting and colorful secondary characters - basically another complete read with a new and refreshingly great plot! This author has never failed to keep me on the edge of my seat holding my breath with either suspense or the exquisite sensual imagery that she so capably writes.  All her books are keepers for me!	2003-01-01
1288224:US	45284807	R2362GLAV2NDV1	055356787X	549526255	Dangerous to Love	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Deliciously Dangerous	Serena Ward had embarked on a dangerous course as she sat disguised as an actress waiting to smuggle a passenger out of England in her support of the Jacobite cause. Unfortunately for her, she attracted the amorous attention of Julian Raynor, owner of a popular gaming club - and die-hard anti-Jacobite. As the militia bore down on Serena and her accomplice, Julian bore down on her. Choosing the lesser of two evils she agrees to accompany Julian in order to give herself time to escape the militia.  When Serena tries to explain to Julian that she is really a high-born `lady' he cuts off her explanations with kisses and much to Serena's dismay - she responds - wholeheartedly!  The morning after - her maidenhead gone - Julian is happy that he was her first and offers her carte blanche as his mistress.  Highly insulted and ashamed she tells him who she is and Julian finds out that she is none other than the daughter of the man Julian blames for his family's misfortunes. He plans to exact revenge by marrying Serena. Tricked into marriage, Serena finds it difficult to maintain her icy reserve toward Julian, and the attraction she feels for him.<br />One thing leads to another and behind the scenes forces add fuel to the fires that make these two star-crossed lovers not trust the love they have for one another, as from the beginning, events happen that have both Julian and Serena feeling betrayed by each other.  Forces and conspiracies, beyond their control that neither knows about continue to wreak havoc with any chance of reconciliation.  That they are indeed meant for one another - even if it is `dangerous love' adds much fuel to the flames of love.<br />This is again, one of the amazingly fast-paced, edge of your seat, and outstandingly sensuous stories I have come to expect from this author.  Her main characters and the numerous secondary characters are so well defined that they make this story come alive.  The very passionate and highly charged sexual encounters will make your toes curl - very hot!  The historical background of England 1747 in this highly charged period lends substance and excitement to another triumph for this historical romance author!  Outstanding book and one I highly recommend!make your toes curl - very hot!  The historical background of England 1747 in this highly charged period lends substance and excitement to another triumph for this historical romance author!  Outstanding book and one I highly recommend!	2002-12-30
1288267:US	45284807	R1NCFYS64BYBEX	0553573721	416551355	Dangerous to Kiss	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Marvelous Love Story with Loads of Suspense	Deborah Weyman had been running for so many years - always running it seemed so that when she met the handsome, kind and unassuming Mr. Grey she thanked her lucky stars for the respite and knew that she could finally rest for a little while from the notorious Lord Kendal whom she had every reason to believe had murdered her former employer. Mr. Grey, now here was a man she could trust - so gentle and considerate of her every comfort as he transported her to his home near the town of Wells.  It was the answer to her prayer as it was there in Wells, that she had brought her young ward, Quentin, to keep him safe from his father's murderer until she could find a safe place for them both. It wasn't long before a chance meeting led her to discover that her `savior' Mr. Grey was actually John Grayson, Earl of Kendal the very man she was running from.<br />After her attempt to escape, she was brought to house where Grey and company did their best to `break' her into revealing where she had hid Quentin.  Even though he was acting beastly, Deborah could not help her physical attraction to Gray, nor his to her even though he thought she was an accomplice to the murder.  Once they came to the realization that they were both on the same side and Quentin's welfare was for both of them their utmost concern they began to work together to try to trap the real murderer while the passion that they were feeling for each other sizzled beneath the surface.<br />As if finding a murderer wasn't mystery enough, Gray had to find out who Deborah really was and what else she was running from, before they could ever find a way to find each other.<br />Again and again, I find this author comes up with another completely enthralling read -  gallant, brave and honorable heroes - brave and resourceful heroines and wonderfully colorful and complex secondary characters to keep the pages from ever getting dull.  Top it off with passionate love scenes and exciting suspense with a historical background and you have this reader hooked!  From beginning to end this was a marvelous story that will keep you up all night long.ound and you have this reader hooked!   From beginning to end this was a marvelous story that will keep you up all night long.	2002-12-30
1289991:US	45284807	R9OU0CIG5J03C	1558177833	142926695	Highland Fire	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Outstanding Historical Sensual Romance	Scotland, 1815 opens this tale when Caitlin Randal after delivering a shipment of smuggled whiskey is mistaken for a `lady of the night' by Iain Randal, the new laird.  The very inebriated Iain might have had his way with her, if not for his cousin David, who whisked Caitlin away before a kiss turned into something else.  But, Rand could not forget that one very passionate kiss he had which would haunt him for some time and David knew but would never divulge the name of the girl to Rand.  Some time later, on the battlefield at Waterloo, Rand, vowed to the mortally wounded David, who had just saved his life that he would return to Scotland and take care of his friend, the mystery girl of his dreams, Miss Randal of Glenshiel after David finally divulged her name.<br />Caitlin had sworn to hate and despise this dandy - this English raised laird and she and her smuggling friends were out to make mischief only they underestimated the golden-haired hero of Waterloo.  Rand would not be easily bested and would run to ground the young man, Dirk Gordan, who was really Caitlin in disguise.<br />Having met Caitlin, Rand was enthralled with her startling beauty, this free spirited and independent slip of a girl, would tempt him as no other woman ever had. It soon became apparent that he and Caitlin, with her wicked and saucy tongue would need to be tamed and he would be just the man to tame her. Caitlin, could no more control her responses to Rand - then he could with her - yet the ... granddaughter of the  Randal of Glenshiel was sworn to hate the upstart English raised laird.<br />This was a marvelous romantic and extremely sensuous story of two very passionate individuals  - Caitlin sensitive, strong, Scot to the core, and caught up in the everyday struggles of living as a highlander under an oftentimes absent English laird who couldn't or wouldn't commit to the responsibilities of being the laird Randal.  The story was very rich in historical content and also had the element of suspense as old and new murders had to be solved in order to right the wrongs of the past and end the feuds that continually tore the highlands and kept Iain and Caitlin from achieving a true and lasting love.  This story had outstanding sensual imagery and very fast moving action.  Great story - surprising ending.ent of suspense as old and new murders had to be solved in order to right the wrongs of the past and end the feuds that continually tore the highlands and kept Iain and Caitlin from achieving a true and lasting love.  This story had outstanding sensual imagery and very fast moving action.  Great story - surprising ending.	2002-12-29
1294931:US	45284807	R2YO20SKT7BTTA	0821728784	760088613	The Worldly Widow (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Excellent 30 Something Heroine	Annabella Jocelyn did keep men at a safe distance and had become quite adept at this practice having loved once wholeheartedly only to have been betrayed most cruelly. Now, embracing her independence and having been a widow for sometime, all her energy and love was for her son, Richard, and Bailey's Publishing House of which she was the driving force. Annabella had traveled to Paris, at the invitation of a courtesan that had a diary of memoirs to sell that promised to be `tell-all' expose of some of the more prominent figures of that era. Being an astute businesswoman Annabella, knew that this would establish Bailey's as the forerunner in the publishing business.<br />It was on this fateful trip that she met the very disturbing Earl of Dalmar, in her judgement a very dangerous libertine. Fate stepped in to make him her hero when a riot broke out and he saved her from being assaulted. In the process, what had started as an attraction turned into a passion for Annabella that she would, in her head, try to deny only to have her body betray her. Dalmar, on the other hand, never felt such passion for a woman before and would do his utmost to make her his using whatever means he could. Unfortunately, saving her from the folly and dangers of publishing the tell-all diary would wreak havoc with his plans.<br />This was an amazing full-bodied romance richly detailed taking place in London and Paris months after the battle of Waterloo. The heroine is uniquely independent for her time, our hero - handsome, controlling yet vulnerable - both very well fleshed out. Additionally along with the main romance, there are two other enjoyable romances that bring a richness and lushness to this terrific book. This was a complete read, for me. It had all the ingredients I look for, in a romance - great plot, strong leads, a super supporting cast, and wonderfully sensual love scenes.	2002-12-24
1297139:US	45284807	RLB9H4BCW1AOH	0553581236	587754980	The Perfect Princess	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent, excellent, excellent!!!	I have so far been immensely pleased with anything this author has written.  Even if you have never read any of her other works, this book can stand alone. With \\"The Perfect Princess\\" Richard Maitland, who was prominently featured in her two previous novels, has his own story.<br />Richard Maitland, war hero, spy extraordinaire, chief of special branches, and highly honorable has made some powerful enemies in his career.  He does not suffer fools gladly and is usually portrayed as a `dour Scot' with few real friends - but those that he does name as friends are `sterling' in character as well.  Richard has been attacked, made to look like a murderer, tried, convicted and two days away from being executed.<br />Lady Rosamond Devere, daughter of a powerful duke, and thought to be a perfect matrimonial choice for a prince is visiting a `friend' who `for a lark' wants to bring Richard Maitland - his `last meal' at Newgate prison.  Unfortunately, the timing could not have been worse as Richard, with the help of his trusty bodyguard, Harper, is attempting a prison break at the time of their visit.  Seizing the moment, and Lady Rosamond as a hostage, Richard and Harper make their escape.<br />This story from the very first pages has exciting suspense, a wonderful romantic duel of personalities - a dour Scot vs. the overly protected and pampered daughter of a duke - and superb dialogs.  After several attempts at escaping Richard, Lady Rosamond, with nothing more to go on than his word, and possibly a sexual attraction, does eventually come to believe in Richard's  innocence - and she and her powerful family do get behind and help Richard to find the real killers. Of course on top of this, these two very dynamic people get to create some very highly sensual and sizzling moments together - not without some hurtles to overcome with such a difference in their disparate backgrounds.<br />From the very beginning you will have non-stop excitement, a real page-turner and exceptionally good secondary characters.  Wonderful writing  - I'll read anything with this lady's name on it and keep it forever!ally good secondary characters.  Wonderful writing  - I'll read anything with this lady's name on it and keep it forever!	2002-12-21
1298149:US	45284807	R2FIRAUBLDGJ4L	0758200498	215764089	Lords Of The Night	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting Stories	The DeVille Inheritance - Monique Ellis<br />Overall: 5*<br />Henry Frye had been following the young Lady Ann Leighton with all intent to quell a hunger that had built itself up to the point where he would have to feed.  Instead, as ruffians accosted her he became her rescuer.  Playing the part of her knight in shining armor he escorted her to his home where he let her repair her appearance before sending her home in his coach.  The Lady Ann was an innocent who had somehow touched a part of him that he knew as a vampire was missing, soul or conscience, whatever it was  he became embroiled in her and her younger brother's life as he tried to save them both from an evil and nasty Earl.  Without feeding, he would cease to exist and before that moment came he made provisions that would protect Ann and her brother from the people that would harm them.  Before he totally ceased to exist though something happened in that he was able to make one noble unselfish act that allowed him to somehow gain a soul and live again. This was a really splendid story that I truly enjoyed.<br />Dark Shadows - Sara Blayne<br />Overall: 3*<br />Lady Blythe was not afraid of scandal - it seemed to have followed her all her life.  Meeting the mysterious Earl of Revelstoke, she felt an attraction and an awareness that she'd never felt before.  She knew deep in her heart that her life so far had been spent in waiting for the moment he came into her life.  What she didn't know was that it could also end it but for the sake of finding a 'soulmate' she could never give him up - no matter what!  Great little story - not enough depth -  I felt it ended too soon and could have used an epilogue.<br />The Full of the Moon - Janice Bennett<br />Overall: 4*<br />Juliana Wittington left her home on the moors to come and try to show her beloved cousin the error of his ways and save him from being fleeced by a disreputable gamester.  Being female, she needed the help of man to guide her through the gaming hells and he turned out to be someone whom might prove more dangerous to herself than she could ever know.  She hid a secret herself, but though she tried the attraction she felt for Baron Ramsdell could very well be her undoing.  - Very different story with a twisty ending I did not foresee.ells and he turned out to be someone whom might prove more dangerous to herself than she could ever know.  She hid a secret herself, but though she tried the attraction she felt for Baron Ramsdell could very well be her undoing.  - Very different story with a twisty ending I did not foresee.	2002-12-20
1298909:US	45284807	RBSLGEOA5UH8O	0380821052	38589290	The Irresistible Macrae: Book Three of the Highland Lords	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Not as Good as Books One & Two	Having been sent to Edinburgh to be presented to society in hopes of finding a husband  the very wealthy heiress Riona McKinsey has been maneuvered into a most compromising position by a calculating fortune hunter.  Using Riona's love for her family as a weapon to threaten scandal and ruin upon her she grudgingly agrees to a betrothal and marriage with the odious greedy suitor.<br />Her mother, Susanna, had sent a plea to her friend Fergus MacRae to see if he could help her figure a way out of the mess Riona had fallen into. Fergus couldn't come but sent his nephew James MacRae as his emissary. Once Susanna, saw James she concocted a scheme to have him spend time at her estate half hoping that an attraction would happen between Riona and James.  Naturally, as they try to ignore the attraction - James being honorable realizing that she was betrothed and Riona having committed herself to a betrothal and trying to honor her agreement to save her family from scandal, the inevitable happens and they fall in love.<br />I have to say that I've read all of Karen Ranney's novels to date and have been most satisfied up until now.  Her prose of course, is outstanding and you get all warm and fuzzy as these two fall in love - James being the more poetically sensitive of the MacRae brothers,  but the plot really does not make sense.  Once the mother had agreed to her daughters sacrifice betrothal what on earth did she hope to accomplish by maneuvering her daughter and James into a lustful encounter? But more importantly, knowing what a toad her betrothed was for manipulating her into a compromising position, and Riona being portrayed as an independent and resourceful daughter  - what difference did it make which scandal would be worse - the Riona breaking off a forced betrothal with a man she despised - or running off to Gretna Green with a man who was her love and kindred spirit?  Never mind that Riona was supposedly doing it all for her sweet sister so that the sister could marry the man she was in love with. Why didn't the sister see how miserable Riona was being forced into marrying someone she did not love? The secondary plot of someone trying to kill James was not of primary importance to the plot and was dealt with rather haphazardly and used, I believe, as a vehicle solely to put James and Riona in a compromising position.<br />I am sorry to say that the third book of Highland Lords series just did not live up to my expectations of a Karen Ranney novel especially after having read everything else she has written plus the first two books of the series that had much more excitement and sensuality to them.  She did manage to pull off the ending so I did not rate this so much by the weakness of the plot as I did by her exquisite prose - Rating a 3 would have been too low but with no 1/2 points in this rating system I am giving it a 4*.rry the man she was in love with. Why didn't the sister see how miserable Riona was being forced into marrying someone she did not love? The secondary plot of someone trying to kill James was not of primary importance to the plot and was dealt with rather haphazardly and used, I believe, as a vehicle solely to put James and Riona in a compromising position.<br />I am sorry to say that the third book of Highland Lords series just did not live up to my expectations of a Karen Ranney novel especially after having read everything else she has written plus the first two books of the series that had much more excitement and sensuality to them.   She did manage to pull off the ending so I did not rate this so much by the weakness of the plot as I did by her exquisite prose - Rating a 3 would have been too low but with no 1/2 points in this rating system I am giving it a 4*.	2002-12-19
1300934:US	45284807	R1GRC7KJ33L3Y4	0380813017	167791673	When the Laird Returns: Book Two of The Highland Lords	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb Prose and Sensual Imagery	Book 2 of the Highland Lords takes us to the next generation of MacRae's and you will find it to be just as compelling as the first.<br />Sailing from his home in Nova Scotia, Alisdair MacRae, captain of the Fortitude and descendant of proud Scottish lairds, has sailed into the Loch below the ruins of Gilmuir once the stately home of clan MacRae. Alisdair's objective was to reclaim his birthright but the very odious Magnus Drummond has claimed the Gilmuir lands and will sell them back to the MacRae.  Not only was he asking for a small fortune but he would also have the MacRae wed his daughter Iseabal.  Not wanting a wife, but knowing this to be the only way to reclaim the land - Alisdair agrees thinking to annul the marriage as soon as possible.<br />Iseabal had lived a life in fear of the very cruel man she called father, being dutiful was her only way to avoid pain. Earlier, that day, Alisdair, not knowing who she was, had rescued her after she had fallen into a pit at the ruins of Gilmuir, therefore she was surprised to find that she would be married to this very tall and handsome stranger, Alisdair MacRae..<br />In the beginning Alisdair is portrayed as honorable - in that he cares for Iseabal's injuries, and her comfort - yet he doesn't - in the beginning - try to discover much about the very stoic and complex person that is his wife.  He is quite kind to her, treating her injuries and she came to trust him and actually looked forward to performing her wifely duties only to discover, accidentally, that Alisdair would be and annulling their marriage. Iseabal, had grown up never able to voice her feelings in a household devoid of warmth, love and human kindness, but she had come to care for him so realizing that he would be repudiating her she hid her hurt behind the wall of silence she was so adept at keeping.<br />I loved the intense way this amazing love story comes together for these two people as once again, the author gives us interesting multi-dimensional characters, with strengths and flaws that made them all too human.  Iseabal  raised in fear and abuse with so much anger, so much pride and not enough trust.  Alisdair was raised with love and honor - not seeking to change his life with a woman he had not sought but then finding that she was the woman he had always expected.  This was a very moving story with fabulous sensual imagery, good historic background, very fast paced and with enough edge of your seat excitement to keep you interested.<br />You can always expect superb prose from this author who has yet to disappoint me.onal characters, with strengths and flaws that made them all too human.  Iseabal  raised in fear and abuse with so much anger, so much pride and not enough trust.  Alisdair was raised with love and honor - not seeking to change his life with a woman he had not sought but then finding that she was the woman he had always expected.  This was a very moving story with fabulous sensual imagery, good historic background, very fast paced and with enough edge of your seat excitement to keep you interested.   <br />You can always expect superb prose from this author who has yet to disappoint me.	2002-12-18
1301534:US	45284807	R203G5A0LZ5OR1	0380813009	392176591	One Man's Love: Book One of The Highland Lords	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great Beginning of this Trilogy	From the very first pages you will be caught up in the emotional maelstrom of this historical era.  I've been known to weep during and at the end of a book - but from the very first pages - oh my God I was hooked. On his eleventh birthday, young Ian MacRae half English, and heir to a British Earldom, and half Scot would never be the same.  His mother had been brutally assaulted and killed during her yearly visit to her family. On that day Ian would renounce his Scottish heritage for the brutal clan wars that claimed his beloved mother as the latest casualty.<br />Years later in Scotland 1746 - after the slaughter at Culloden - the English forces under the command of Cromwell are still persecuting the defeated Scots. Ian, now known as Colonel Alec Landers has come to take over the command at Fort Williams.  The clan MacRae that once totaled over 300 was now a mere handful, but in that handful of survivors was the first girl he had ever kissed - Leitus MacRae. She was still the most beautiful girl he had ever seen nor did she recognize the grown up man who had been her childhood friend.  She only recognized the hated English uniform and not the man who wore it. Alec/Ian could not come out and let Leitis know who he was as it could cause him his very life if the English knew he was half Scot, and as her enemy she was sworn to hate him. In order to save her uncle, she agreed to become the Colonel's hostage to ensure her uncle's life.  But this strange, and though she hated to admit it, handsome and kind man was not easy to understand. He was supposed to be the `Butcher of Inverness' sparing no Scotsman - yet he showed compassion that confused her and his nearness aroused passion she was ashamed of.<br />Sickened by the slaughter and senselessness of war Alec played a dangerous game, assuming the disguise of `The Raven' in order to help ease the burdens of the people, he tricked Leitis into helping him.  That she would fall in love with the Raven who she learned was actually Ian was inevitable - that she could still have an attraction for the English Colonel was her torment.<br />This was an outstanding and beautiful love story with well defined characters that you will get very emotionally caught up with.  The love between Alec/Ian and Leitis seemed to be an impossibility given the era and that is what makes this such an unbelievable story as to what a man would do - for `One Man's Love'.  A superb beginning for this much anticipated trilogy.tually Ian was inevitable - that she could still have an attraction for the English Colonel was her torment.  <br />This was an outstanding and beautiful love story with well defined characters that you will get very emotionally caught up with.  The love between Alec/Ian and Leitis seemed to be an impossibility given the era and that is what makes this such an unbelievable story as to what a man would do - for `One Man's Love'.   A superb beginning for this much anticipated trilogy.	2002-12-17
1303927:US	45284807	R4G8RWOFNLE3D	0380800233	866874618	The Perfect Gift	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Another Great Draycott Abbey Book	This was another entry in the Draycott Abbey series that is again another chapter in this wonderful creation by the gifted Christina Skye.<br />Our hero, Commander Jared MacNeill, is connected to the abbey through an association  of having served in the Royal Marines and having had his life saved by Nicolas Draycott.  So, when a personal favor was requested by Nicolas to ask Jared to `check out' a proposed artist he and his wife were planning to commission for a specific venture they would be sponsoring - Jared felt compelled to grant this one last favor - before he died. Through a special `sixth-sense gift' Jared, had seen his own death and by touch, he can read another persons thoughts.<br />Highly independent since her father's supposed death and jewel theft, Maggie Kincade's life had left her vulnerable and wary of anything and anyone that smacked of `reporters'.  She was attempting to carry on with her life relying solely on herself when this Scotsman, Jared, invades her mind and sends signals to her body that are quite unsettling.  Arriving at the Abbey, she has no idea why it somehow feels familiar and why she has the feeling that someone is always watching her.<br />What follows is the highly sensual attraction that our two main characters have with Jared quite vocal with his admiration and Maggie not quite understanding or believing her feelings.  The fact that Jared knows what she is thinking drives her crazy!  Then of course you have the mystery of why someone is trying to harm Maggie and whether her father is really dead.<br />As always, you get to see Adrian and Gideon, the abbey's guardian ghosts - who help out when the going gets tough and you get to visit other characters from previous novels who you have come to know and love.  This is not to say that you need to read the previous Draycott books as this does stand entirely on it's own plot although your sense of `family' will be more than satisfied as you do get to find out how `old friends' are doing.  Great entry - lots of suspense and hot sensual scenes.oing.  Great entry - lots of suspense and hot sensual scenes.	2002-12-15
1305488:US	45284807	R2ZXJCEE05NU9P	0380782812	278313893	Season of Wishes	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Magical and Wonderful	I just loved this book and Christina Skye for giving such pleasure in this series.<br />Ian McCall, Laird of Glenlyle, was coerced to serve as a bodyguard to Jamee Night who was being threatened by a potential kidnapper. Ian, a kidnapping expert, does not want to do this as he slowly losing his eyesight but as a favor to his good friend Nicolas Draycott he agrees especially after he is shown a video of  Jamee  in the throes of a nightmare she frequently has that was caused by her earlier kidnapping as a child.<br />As in most of Skye's previous Draycott books our hero is falling in love with the client but does not tell her he is going blind due to an age old Curse.  She in turn, falls in love with this big strong handsome Scot and through some flashbacks of the how and why of the curse they both end up saving each other for each other.<br />Season of Wishes is another magical tale from this extremely gifted author that will both keep you on the edge of your set in suspense and give you a warm and fuzzy feeling as you cheer both of these wounded souls on to the happiness they both deserve.	2002-12-14
1307687:US	45284807	R14FZNOHLRR847	0345433971	758485853	Midnight Bride	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Magically OUTSTANDING	Susan Carroll's Midnight Bride, the third in the St. Leger series, is absolutely awesome! Dr. Valentine St. Leger, younger twin son of Anatole and Madeline St. Leger (from The Bride Finder), is a doctor. As most all St. Legers, he has a gift that enables him to draw the pain of his patients into himself - draining at first, but after resting, he can then recover.  Unfortunately, when he first used this gift to save his twin brother Lance's life, he wasn't able to control the gift and it left him with a crippled leg.  Val  is often referred to as Saint Valentine because of his unrelenting quest to serve those in pain and would never be or do anything that would inadvertently hurt another person.<br />To Kate Fitzleger, adopted daughter of the St. Leger's bride finder; Val has been her hero, confidante, teacher and friend - the man she knows she will love for all time - no matter what her adopted mother, Effie Fitzleger, the `Bride Finder' says.  She is determined that Val will be hers someday and will do anything to have it happen - including braving the old tower and the lair of the legendary ghost of Prospero St. Leger to find a `love spell' to cast over Val.  Kate would not believe the warnings and would disregard the legends that promised an untimely death to women not chosen by the `Bride Finder'.<br />Adding to this, enter an old enemy, Rafe Mortmain, whose sole purpose in returning to Cornwall, is to exact revenge upon Saint Valentine - whom he blames for all the bad things that have happened in his life, including the loss of the one true friend he ever thought he had - Val's twin brother Lance.<br />At the moment the determined Kate is casting her love spell another supernatural and evil event is taking place.  As a result, Val turns into a real dark and nasty person and lets his lust for Kate - who he once treated with the dignity of a lady - take over - releasing the `dark side' of his soul.  Kate, delighted at first, by the change in the quiet and courteous Val, comes around to finally understanding that you can't force love but would this realization come too late to save the soul of her best friend.<br />This book is a real page-turner with suspense filled action. Best-selling author Susan Carroll has created a magnificent series here that I hope will continue beyond this third book.  The resident guardian ghost - Prospero - seems to play a much stronger role in this story only adding to the mystical feeling.  Bravo Ms. Carroll you've created a most charming and wonderfully warm family of new `friends' for me!us Val, comes around to finally understanding that you can't force love but would this realization come too late to save the soul of her best friend. <br />This book is a real page-turner with suspense filled action. Best-selling author Susan Carroll has created a magnificent series here that I hope will continue beyond this third book.  The resident guardian ghost - Prospero - seems to play a much stronger role in this story only adding to the mystical feeling.  Bravo Ms. Carroll you've created a most charming and wonderfully warm family of new `friends' for me!	2002-12-12
1308774:US	45284807	RPTGIWA54FO3Y	0449003884	137050959	The Bride Finder	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Perfection!!	How does one describe perfection...The Bride Finder...would be one way.  I sensed by reading some of Ms. Carroll's earlier novels that hers was a rare talent for combining deeply emotional writing with some uplifting sparks of wonderfully humorous dialog.<br />Anatole St. Leger is a very private and lonely man whose childhood left him with more scars than the visible one on his forehead. As head of the St. Leger family, he knows that he must marry and because any St. Leger man whose bride is not chosen by the Bride Finder is cursed he sends for the Bride Finder - a distant relation the Reverend Septimus Fitzleger. Anatole also gives him a list requesting a tall, large-bosomed, horse-loving wife.  Well, the resident ghost Prospero - switches the list so that what Fitzleger does find is a tiny petite fairy-like creature that basically scares the hell out of our fearsome hero - the Lady Madeline Breton.  The description and dialog of their initial meeting is pricelessly funny!  Anatole definitely desires her but having never experienced any gentleness in his young life it was difficult for him to understand what exactly he should do or how to act with this woman who was now his wife. The legends state that the brides found by the Bride Finder would be the `soul mates' of the St. Leger men - passionate and all-loving.  Anatole is at a loss and feels a complete failure that he cannot seem to elicit this passionate response from Madeline.<br />Madeline, something of a blue-stocking - possessed of a very sensible nature - had been the one that had kept her family from ultimate ruin so when approached by Fitzleger and offered a huge marriage settlement that would help her family from impending doom, she agreed to this proxy marriage.  She had consoled herself with the locket that portrayed an image of a handsome and gentle faced man whom she had halfway fallen in love though she had never met him.  The reality of meeting the very fierce warrior-like Anatole was at once shocking and mystifying.  Had her family not spent the generous marriage settlement beforehand - she might just have turned and ran as far away as she could.<br />The rest of the novel is spent with Anatole trying desperately to keep his special powers hidden as well as the resident ghosts, from his bride, Madeline. His tiny but very sensible, forthright, and honest wife who does not believe in ghosts or things that have no logical basis in fact.  The secondary plot here is the very real danger from St. Legers' archenemies, the Mortmains - whom it is believed all perished years ago.<br />This is the kind of book and story that remains with you long after you turn the last page.  I am so happy that I have the next two sequels to this book just waiting for me to dive into.  I highly recommend this book to be placed on most everyone's keeper shelf and enjoyed over and over again.ocking and mystifying.  Had her family not spent the generous marriage settlement beforehand - she might just have turned and ran as far away as she could.<br />The rest of the novel is spent with Anatole trying desperately to keep his special powers hidden as well as the resident ghosts, from his bride, Madeline. His tiny but very sensible, forthright, and honest wife who does not believe in ghosts or things that have no logical basis in fact.  The secondary plot here is the very real danger from St. Legers' archenemies, the Mortmains - whom it is believed all perished years ago.  <br />This is the kind of book and story that remains with you long after you turn the last page.  I am so happy that I have the next two sequels to this book just waiting for me to dive into.  I highly recommend this book to be placed on most everyone's keeper shelf and enjoyed over and over again.	2002-12-11
1308806:US	45284807	R3BPSVQ2JRQNO	0449005852	142931922	The Night Drifter: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Real Cliffhanger Ending	Having read \\"The Bride Finder\\" I was eager to continue with the story on the children from Anatole and Madeline.  It takes place after the battle of Waterloo in which Lancelot the eldest twin son and heir has returned from the war and while his parents are on a grand tour has been left in charge. Lance, having been wounded by an affair of the heart, has turned rather cynical and would rather not have these responsibilities, but as the heir apparent, is forced into it.  One more disappointment he would rather not have to divulge to the `dread Lord' his father is the loss of the St. Leger Bride Sword - a priceless family heirloom that gets passed on to the brides found for St. Leger men by the `Bride Finder'.<br />Most of the St. Leger descendants usually have some kind of supernatural power, Lance's is the power to separate his soul from his mortal body and night drift.  Thinking this a great way to search for the stolen sword he happens upon the very young widow Rosalind, who believes him to be Sir Lancelot de Luc of King Arthur's Round Table. Rather than let her know the truth he plays along with her misconception and tells her he is looking for a missing sword - well that was part of the truth.<br />As it turns out, Rosalind while visiting the Effie Fitzleger, granddaughter of the original `Bride Finder' is astounded when Lance shows up with his brother Val and Effie is hit with the `tingly' feeling that Rosalind is meant to be the bride for all eternity of Lance St. Leger.  Rosalind does not recognize Lance as her nightly apparition and wants no part of this reputed St. Leger rakehell.  In order to woo the nave widow, Lance has to continue as Sir Lancelot at night in order to convince her to give Lance St. Leger a chance to redeem himself during the day.<br />This was a continuation of a wonderful storyline that Carroll has crafted using the unforgettable family created with her stunning `Bride Finder'.  She has given us a new plot with interesting characterizations and a real cliffhanger ending to show us once again that true love can heal all!izations and a real cliffhanger ending to show us once again that true love can heal all!	2002-12-11
1313965:US	45284807	R2X1SSJBAR048N	0449222101	590337707	The Valentine's Day Ball (Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Sweet as Candy	Having been awakened by Frontenac, his valet, and finding himself not in his own bed, Sir Jared Branden was not having the most splendid morning of his life, but even worse was the `angel' that appeared across the hall from him when he was fully dressed and seeking to break his fast.  None other than Maria Addams, the woman who jilted him ten years ago to the day - Valentine's eve.  Although, now she was the `dowager countessa' - widow of some infernal Italian count she had met on her `grand tour' of the continent.<br />Crossing swords and words with her this very morn was not something he was expecting, but they could not seem to exchange friendly words between them if their lives depended on it.  Maria did not know why he was here - but finding him standing there - handsome as ever - always seemed to weaken her knees until he opened his mouth to say something so `Jared like' to hasten up all parries to his sword thrusts.  Would he interfere with her latest scheme to save a young damsel from a forced marriage arranged by her cruel guardian?<br />I really enjoyed this very light regency romance - the characters were darling and their very witty and biting `word plays' were highly amusing.  Ms. Carroll also offers up a wonderful cast of secondary characters - from the stuffy and irreverent valet to the `clueless' damsel in distress.  Very, very funny and a delightful read I can certainly recommend	2002-12-07
1317267:US	45284807	R1SQOE6JL5D0UT	0821718886	495155354	Sea Jewel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fabulous Love Story Rich in Historical Background	If you are looking for a Viking epic and a love story extraordinaire then you have found both in this fabulous book by Penelope Neri - but be prepared with tissues handy as it will tear at your heart as obstacles so overwhelming seem to be thrust in the way of true love.<br />It starts with a very brutal Viking leader Thorfast a cold and brutal man, raiding a Saxon stronghold. After witnessing her husband and two young sons viciously slain, the pregnant chieftain's wife bargains for herself and her unborn child's life by agreeing to pleasure him willingly in bed. Thorfast agreed to this but on the way back to his ship sent one of his men back to dispose of her thinking that the `unborn pup' would surely seek revenge some day.  Sven, the man sent back, could not complete the deed.<br />It is 879, twenty-three years later Freya the only child of Thorfast, unwanted because she was not a son, is leading a raiding party in an attempt to finally gain some notice and acceptance of her existence by her father. She's buried all traces of femininity in order to be the fierce warrior her father had wanted and expected of a son. Because of a traitor in her raiding party she was taken captive by none other than Alaric, the grown `unborn pup' of the woman whose life had been spared.  Alaric will see his hated enemies daughter debased and humiliated as a bedchamber slave in retaliation for the carnage that her father had left so many years before.<br />Freya is made Alaric's slave - and after many bedroom skirmishes and her unsuccessful attempts at escape, they find that the hatred each felt for one another has turned into love.  All might have worked out, if not for the jealous madness of Alaric's brother's wife, Kendra.  Kendra had always wanted Alaric rather than his gentle brother. After many ploys to make Freya look bad in the eyes of the Alaric, Kendra kills her husband and sets it up to make it look like Freya murdered him.  Never realizing that Alaric's brother was a twin, Freya thinks that Kendra has killed Alaric flees. After an adventuresome journey north, Freya meets up with her childhood friend, Olaf.  Suspecting that she is pregnant and in a weakened state she agrees to marry Olaf, only to find out much later that Alaric is alive.<br />Quite historical in nature, during the reign of Alfred the Great in the early years of England, this novel is an epic love story that will sweep you into the lives of Alaric and Freya where you will experience all the horror, lust, betrayals, and joy as you enjoy this emotionally charged roller coaster of a novel.  The many characters were all interesting and richly drawn out.  It was, in a word - superb!  This is an out of print book but if you are lucky enough to find copy - I highly recommend that you pick it up! A solid 10 rating!Freya thinks that Kendra has killed Alaric flees. After an adventuresome journey north, Freya meets up with her childhood friend, Olaf.  Suspecting that she is pregnant and in a weakened state she agrees to marry Olaf, only to find out much later that Alaric is alive.<br />Quite historical in nature, during the reign of Alfred the Great in the early years of England, this novel is an epic love story that will sweep you into the lives of Alaric and Freya where you will experience all the horror, lust, betrayals, and joy as you enjoy this emotionally charged roller coaster of a novel.  The many characters were all interesting and richly drawn out.  It was, in a word - superb!  This is an out of print book but if you are lucky enough to find copy - I highly recommend that you pick it up! A solid 10 rating!	2002-12-04
1320857:US	45284807	R2C0M4XJIZ0N5S	0425155420	391688841	The Christmas Cat	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Enjoyable Whether you Like Cats or Not!	Julie Beard - My True Love Gave to Me Anne Clancy looks to be celebrating Christmas alone - not even her black cat Niner is around having been missing these last four days. Hearing what she thinks is his bell, she rushes out in a snowstorm calling for him and is hit by a car. When a most startling blue-eyed gorgeous hunk of man revives her, she assumes it is her neighbors friend who she was to meet that evening - darn but she could have warned her he was drop dead gorgeous! Only it wasn't the neighbor's friend - and it wasn't even Wisconsin, USA 1975 anymore either. She was catapulted back in time and mistaken for this gorgeous hunk of a medieval knight's intended bride. Now what's a modern girl to do? Divine short story with a lovely ending.<br />Jo Beverley - A Gift of Light Kitty Mayhew was alone working on a tapestry trying to figure out what was wrong with her mother's cat who was making the strangest sounds and putting her body through some very strange contortions. It was her maid Polly that let her know that the problem was that the cat was in heat and hadn't she heard the `tom cats' making all kinds of racket at night. The very worst of the `tom cats' was a big black one that she found out belonged to a neighbor. Armed with all the dignity she could muster Kitty went to the neighbor insisting they control their `tom' cat from courting her female. What she discovered was a very impudent owner who didn't seem to see that this was as much of a problem as she did. In fact, this rascally `Lord Chatterton' thought that this little spitfire needed to be taught the finer points of courting - human style. Through a ruse using the servants courtship as an excuse, he talked Kitty into the two of them acting as chaperones to find out if the servants budding courtship would last if it didn't have to be kept clandestine and would be brought into the open.<br />This was a cute, lovely story with some sweet and sassy dialog. Lord Chatterton was the initiator of trying to teach a lesson in courtship, but it was Kitty who finally taught Tom, Lord Chatterton, what it really meant to let in the `light of the Christmas season' and truly love.<br />Barbara Bretton - Home for the Holidays This was a darling story told partly from Sebastian, a Maine Coon cat's perspective and partly from his human owners, Jill and David. It is Christmas Eve and David and Jill are divorcing. Jill and David had been together since college; loving each other thru the hard times then slowly falling apart as David's need to advance his career and make more and more money was more important than spending time with his family. It would take Sebastian, the cat they both loved, on a journey that they could follow - to make David remember that the most important thing he needed was Jill and that they were partners - and that they were once happiest when all they had was a little money but whole lot of love. Sweet story.<br />Lynn Kurland - The Gift of Christmas Past I really liked this offering from Lynn Kurland. Sir Sweetums, Abigail Garrett's cat, has been missing, and her life feels as though it has gone down the drain, no job, no cat, no unemployment insurance, and no boyfriend just a couple of days before Christmas - she felt like George Bailey and was ready to jump off a bridge into the river. Well, she didn't exactly jump but she did fall in and when she came up for air she found herself in a cesspool of a moat. Not only a moat, but she was no longer in Wisconsin, but England and it wasn't 1998 anymore but 1238! She dragged herself out of the moat, and made her way to the gate at the top of the drawbridge - only to find a surly man dressed up like a medieval knight holding a sword and he didn't quite know what to make of her either! This was a really darling story with Sir Sweetums, who had passed by his ninth life, and was now a guardian angel cat who had one last human he had to find a suitable mate for. Very nice and romantic as these two people from different times had to come to grips with each other and the truth of who they were! Very humorous as well!ferent times had to come to grips with each other and the truth of who they were! Very humorous as well!	2002-12-02
1322573:US	45284807	R2839V7QDPCVQA	0380800225	393452418	Christmas Knight	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Magical Christmas Knight	Hope O'Hara, felt connected to Glenbrae House the moment she spotted it and with an inheritance received from her beloved uncle, the very last relative she had.  The connection with something, anything, would be welcome to take away the pain of loneliness.  This 13th century manor would take an enormous amount of money to make it into the prosperous B&amp;B she had envisioned - more than even she had anticipated without paying guests to help get her established.  As the tax man starts breathing down her neck, what Hope needed, was a Knight in Shining Armour, and Ronan MacLeod was just what the doctor ordered.  Oh, did I say doctor? What I meant was the three Wishwell sisters who seemed to have a hand in conjuring up this 13th century warrior.<br />Ronan MacLeod, a fierce warrior, had been granted Glenbrae House, by King Edward for his deeds and he wanted nothing more than to forget, the horrors and nightmares of the battles he had fought, and the murders he had committed for this hated English King. Finally, dead inside, he would have a home - long in coming but not for very long in keeping as he was thrust into the 21st century to save a damsel in distress.<br />From the moment he caught Hope in his arms, as she fell from the roof of Glenbrae House, feelings he had never experienced before rose to the surface.  He had enjoyed women, purely as a means to satisfy an itch - but never before was his heart caught up in his chest where he actually felt something for a woman.  But here, this strong woman, dressed strangely, and with shorn hair aroused all his feelings of lust and protectiveness.  But how could Hope believe this man was from the 13th century, even if he did come dressed in realistic Armour and riding a great war horse?  How could she possibly trust him with her heart - he had to be an actor or something to explain his appearance.<br />Ronan, on the other hand, could believe - Glenbrae House was his home, the same but different.  He could see he was in the future but his honor would keep him from his feelings for Hope knowing that at any moment he could be thrust back into his own time.  He had been brought here because Hope was in danger and needed protection - but who would protect him from losing his heart?<br />I am a Christina Skye `Draycott Abbey' fan, and anyone who has read any of the Draycott Abbey books know how spell binding they can be. While the Christmas Knight does not take place at Draycott Abbey, characters from the Abbey do come to Glenbrae including Adrien and his cat Gideon. Yet, you will find Glenbrae House has a charm of it's own as the talented Ms. Skye introduces you to even more enjoyable characters including three delightful witchy type sisters.  It is a great book to be reading at this time of the year as you can enjoy the magic here as well as into the Christmas season.  I can definitely recommend this book.the future but his honor would keep him from his feelings for Hope knowing that at any moment he could be thrust back into his own time.  He had been brought here because Hope was in danger and needed protection - but who would protect him from losing his heart?<br />I am a Christina Skye `Draycott Abbey' fan, and anyone who has read any of the Draycott Abbey books know how spell binding they can be. While the Christmas Knight does not take place at Draycott Abbey, characters from the Abbey do come to Glenbrae including Adrien and his cat Gideon. Yet, you will find Glenbrae House has a charm of it's own as the talented Ms. Skye introduces you to even more enjoyable characters including three delightful witchy type sisters.  It is a great book to be reading at this time of the year as you can enjoy the magic here as well as into the Christmas season.  I can definitely recommend this book.	2002-11-30
1326823:US	45284807	RCGGGIAARONX6	0553569104	462583878	The Warlord	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Absolutely DIVINE Love Story!	Lady Tess of Remmington, has endured five years of abuse and suffering from a step father that intends to marry her to his heir in order to retain possession of Remmington Castle. With the help of her uncle and two hired mercenaries Tess has escaped to the safety of an abbey where her plans are to seek sanctuary as a nun. Unfortunately, her uncle didn't tell her the rest of the story - that one of the mercenaries was the infamous Butcher of Wales, Kenric of Montague, and she would be married to him that very night. The arguments are made - and you can get your first glimpse at the spunk, courage and a little humor of our heroine - where Tess is convinced that as evil as her step-father is, by marrying the Butcher of Wales, Kenric of Montague. He might be the only one capable of keeping her step-father away and her regaining her family keep of Remmington.<br />Kenric and his man-at-arms Roger Fitz Alan knew, by order of the King, that he would be marrying the maid, but seeing a short squat hooded person, Fitz Alan quipped that perhaps she had a comely face, and was making Kenric have second thoughts - even if this marriage was by royal order. When Tess threw off her cloak in anger to accuse her uncle of trickery - Kenric was at once awestruck at her beauty. He, who had vowed to never marry, had never felt passion stir in him for any woman before this night - used them, bedded them - but never had a woman caused him this soul stirring passion.<br />For some reason, Tess even at this forced alliance, somehow felt safe with this very proud and unsmiling warrior - who hid his passion so very well. She only knew that when she saw him - she knew that she had seen him before - in her dreams. His trust would be hard won, having been emotionally scarred throughout his childhood, and yet she would betray him, to save her people, sacrificing everything to the point of losing that which she finally came to realize was most dear to her.<br />This is an absolutely divine story of love and passion. The main characters, Tess and Kenric, are both so well developed you will find yourself feeling their pain, cheering them on in their joy of discovery, and wariness in their very sensual dance of love. I was made to feel like a fly on a wall and I laughed and cried with them both as this author endeared them to my heart. Bravo - a most excellent medieval romance!love and passion. The main characters, Tess and Kenric, are both so well developed you will find yourself feeling their pain, cheering them on in their joy of discovery, and wariness in their very sensual dance of love. I was made to feel like a fly on a wall and I laughed and cried with them both as this author endeared them to my heart. Bravo - a most excellent medieval romance!	2002-11-26
1327390:US	45284807	R39GTM1H35V72I	0764222597	848626663	Catherine's Heart (Tales of London Series #2)	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Lovely Story	This my first book by Lawana Blackwell takes you to Victorian London 1880 where a very innocent and sheltered young 18-year-old, Catherine Rayborn,  is setting off to college in Cambridge. Catherine is excited and a little intimidated to finally be off on her own as a `fresher' in college.  On that very eventful train ride she will meet up with a young lady Peggy who will become one of her dearest friends. Before long Catherine is soon caught up in studies and has engaged the admiration of a very nice young man, but rather than jeopardize her friendship with Peggy, she makes a choice that will have serious repercussions for that friendship.<br />Somewhat hurt by her first foray of losing her heart, the very nave Catherine is introduced to a man with a less than illustrious past, although she is unaware of it at the time. He courts her, showing her a thoughtful and caring face, that she believes to be a true and honest character. Upon being found out, by her cousin that she has been seeing a notorious rake, she continues to see him thinking that her family doesn't realize that he was a changed man.  She takes him at face value and convinces herself that his past doesn't matter. It will take a friends betrayal, before Catherine realizes the difference between infatuation and love that is based upon true friendship and genuine feelings.<br />This was a really nice story about looking for love when what she really needed was to find her own sense of self worth and finding that the most important acceptance was in God's grace.  It also gives you a wonderful glimpse of a young girl in Victorian England attending college to obtain a certificate of merit rather than a diploma! Same four years of study but not yet up to par with the male counterpart!<br />This is a charming story I can recommend to anyone who loves romance in Victorian England along with lessons in good Christian behavior.	2002-11-25
1328345:US	45284807	R26D0GPL3NM1LM	044017161X	869765562	The Raven and the Rose	Books	4	29	35	N	N	This Rose Had Thorns	At the heart of this story is the `rose', otherwise known as Roseanna Castlemaine, stunningly beautiful daughter of Joanna and Neville Castlemaine but in reality, the illegitimate daughter of King Edward IV. Were it known, it would cause her life to be in danger. She has been betrothed since the age of 11 to Baron Ravenspur, who should have claimed her at the age of 15 but now, all of 17 and having never met the man, she scoffs at the idea that they will ever wed and has fallen in love with the handsome Byron FitzHugh, friend of her brother Jeffrey.<br />Her mother Joanna has high hopes for her daughter making a good marriage, and a landless Knight, does not fit in with her plans.  Roseanna hearing that her betrothed is staying at a nearby hunting lodge determines that she will go there and beg the Baron to break the betrothal. Mishaps along the way, cause her to lose her horse, get drenched in a pouring rain so that when Ravenspur's brother, Tristan, finds her he mistakes her for a peasant and decides to make a gift of her to his brother Roger, who along with his men-at-arms are all having an orgy at the hunting lodge. Ravenspur is stunned to realize that this is no peasant but his betrothed and having sworn never to marry again, initially agrees to break the betrothal but the more she provokes him he decides to go through with the marriage anyhow.<br />Roseanne, not one to take being lied to lightly, tries all sorts of escapades to escape the impending marriage and subsequent bedding, but would her feelings of, could it be lust, whenever Ravenspur is near betray her. She can't quite understand how she could `love' Sir Bryan, yet her body react with Ravenspur.<br />This story was the first I've read by this author. I found it extremely rich in the historical background of King Edward IV - with references to the intrigues and betrayals of the treasonous plots during that period.  The dog and cat fight romance between Ravenspur and Roseanna was delightful, although through the first half of the book, you'd like to have this vain, spoiled brat, thrown over someone's knee and spanked.  It is not until she realizes the difference between infatuation and love does she come to appreciate the strong, handsome, virile husband she is wed over the pale facsimile she thinks she loves. I thoroughly enjoyed the dialog and the fast pace movement of the story making it a very difficult book to put down.  Good read and one I can definitely recommend.h through the first half of the book, you'd like to have this vain, spoiled brat, thrown over someone's knee and spanked.  It is not until she realizes the difference between infatuation and love does she come to appreciate the strong, handsome, virile husband she is wed over the pale facsimile she thinks she loves. I thoroughly enjoyed the dialog and the fast pace movement of the story making it a very difficult book to put down.  Good read and one I can definitely recommend.	2002-11-25
1334219:US	45284807	R1O3D7WY3N2BG4	0553581201	585124591	Princess Charming	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Charming Story	Jason Radley had been the boy, then the man Gwyn Barrie had always loved but the tragic drowning of Jason's brother and other events and circumstances beyond anyone's control made Gwyn's abrupt elopement one of the worst mistakes of her life.  The one thing that the elopement did though was to force Gwyn to grow up and gain in strength the reserves she would need to shoulder the hardships of being a soldier's wife.  It was this strength she relied on to hold together the meager life of genteel poverty after the death of her husband that she had forged for herself and her son Mark.<br />Eight years from the time she had run away, Gwyn is widowed and alone with her son Mark.  When Gwyn inherits a sizeable legacy from an anonymous benefactor, she was overjoyed until the fine print revealed that the sole trustee of said legacy would be her handsome and charming cousin Jason.  Jason, the man she had loved and run away from; Jason who never knew why she had run away eight years ago taking with her his very heart.<br />Now, along with this legacy, there is another matter of someone watching her, and going through her house when she is not there. After a couple of attempts on her life, Jason forces her to leave London for the family estate where he can better protect her - but would that protection extend itself to protect her from having Jason break her heart again?<br />The mystery was great.  I did not figure out the assassin or who the mysterious benefactor was until the very end!<br />This was soooo good.  I don't know how she did it but with this book but Elizabeth Thornton has managed to combine, suspense, complex plots, romantic sensuality and a very charming love story all in one awesome read!  I hate to repeat myself but this is another very hard to put down book.  Again, she has given us characters that are very full bodied and complex, she has reintroduced and given more depth to a wonderful character from a previous novel that I believe is the central character in her next novel \\"The Perfect Princess\\". And if that is not enough, you get to read a delightful little side romance between Gwyn's cousin Brandon and best friend Judith.  I am finding you get so much more from an Elizabeth Thornton novel and I highly recommend you get this book!er in her next novel \\"The Perfect Princess\\". And if that is not enough, you get to read a delightful little side romance between Gwyn's cousin Brandon and best friend Judith.  I am finding you get so much more from an Elizabeth Thornton novel and I highly recommend you get this book!	2002-11-19
1335534:US	45284807	R2VXR4WBHFU4JO	0553574272	622900824	Whisper His Name	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Super Suspense and Sensuality	Abbie Vayle is a smart independent woman who at the age of seven and twenty is quite content with her unmarried state and plans to stay that way.  On a trip to Paris in 1814, fate, in the form of a very desperate spy, running for her life would upset the comfortable existence that was Abbie's life.  Unknown to Abbie, the spy had slipped a book containing some dangerous coded information into a basket of rare books Abbie was bringing back to England for her book shop - a book that Nemo, who is Napoleon's most feared agent, would kill for!  It would be some weeks later, that Nemo would track down, the book and Abbie to threaten her with her youngest brothers life should she not comply with his wishes and turn over the book.<br />Abbie's friendship with Hugh Templar, both of them members of the Antiquarians Society has always been comfortable. Hugh, was once a government agent but had retired from that life and wanted nothing more than to rusticate in Bath as a scholar and archaeologist searching out Roman ruins.  When Hugh senses that Abbie is hiding something and seems disturbed, Hugh's former skills as a soldier and spy would come in handy - if only Abbie would confide and trust him.  Abbie, unfortunately, cannot decide if he is friend or foe and initially still thinks of him as the quiet, well-mannered scholar.  A kiss from him actually startles her enough to start looking at him from a different perspective, but whether she can trust him enough with her brothers life on the line is the bigger problem.  As he had always assumed this scholarly role, Abbie, who would have liked to involve him, felt he would have been more or less useless - what could he do!  Then when he reverts into this macho type of man - she is more or less repelled.  So what's a girl to do - especially as she has prided herself on her independence - nothing but fend for herself!<br />This was another superbly written mystery and romance by an author that this reviewer has just discovered.  The complexity of her plots with romance, and historical background has all the elements that keep me enthralled.  I loved the character's portrayal of both Abbie and Hugh - although at one point I would have liked to shake Abbie for not telling Hugh the whole truth, especially after they had shared a most sensually delightful evening together.  Hey, if you trust a man enough to share your body, you might want to share a few other things - like the truth!  The rest of the secondary characters also add to the enjoyment of this book and I loved the way the siblings in the Vayle family drew so close together in support of one another when the chips were down.  This was truly a wonderful read, fast paced and hard to put down.  Loved it and highly recommend this book.omplexity of her plots with romance, and historical background has all the elements that keep me enthralled.  I loved the character's portrayal of both Abbie and Hugh - although at one point I would have liked to shake Abbie for not telling Hugh the whole truth, especially after they had shared a most sensually delightful evening together.  Hey, if you trust a man enough to share your body, you might want to share a few other things - like the truth!  The rest of the secondary characters also add to the enjoyment of this book and I loved the way the siblings in the Vayle family drew so close together in support of one another when the chips were down.  This was truly a wonderful read, fast paced and hard to put down.  Loved it and highly recommend this book.	2002-11-18
1337491:US	45284807	R1DDABTV83QGAM	0553574264	847791733	You Only Love Twice	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderfully COMPLEX Mystery and Love Story	If you like a complex plot then do find a copy of this book. I must say that this is one of those books that you should not start at night as you will find it enormously difficult to put down. There were so many mind-boggling twists and turns. Our heroine Jessica Hayward is first introduced as a postulant, Sister Martha, in a convent. She has been in this convent for three years with no memory of what has transpired in her life before that time, but she has vivid images and a voice she hears in her head. Given the time period, which is not really defined but some years after the battle of Waterloo - approximately 1820's - it would have been hard to imagine someone with ESP and terrifying to a sane person to admit to it. Yet, the images did not terrify her as much as the 'Voice' of a cold-blooded killer who was planning another murder.<br />A patient in the clinic that the convent runs recognizes Jessica. Along with a couple of nuns, she travels to Hawkshill Manor where she finds a small legacy that has been left to her by the death of her father. The more she questions the more mystery her former life becomes as it appears that no one wants to give her a straight answer. More importantly, the man she was told she was madly in love with, seems to have a distinct disgust and hatred of her. Evidently, the 'Perfect Nun' she had become was not a very nice person in her former life. How had this happened? This is just one of the many mysteries that Jessica had to solve. Even without the memory of her love for Lucas Wilde, now an Earl, her body seemed to recognize him, given the responses whenever he was near.<br />Wow, is all I can say! This was a superb story that will again keep you on the edge of your seat and up all night. The love interest is probably secondary to the mystery to be solved but I found it to be a most satisfying read all together. Jessica's character is so very well developed and complex you can really feel for her frustration and have an acute awareness that she is a really 'good' person. Lucas' character is complex as well, but he is unraveled more so towards the end of the book. There is a profusion of secondary characters, who are dealt with quite well, along with a few small doses of humor thrown in. There are not a lot of love scenes here, as the mystery takes more of a precedence, but what passages there are, do get quite sensual without being minutely detailed. All in all this is a wonderfully robust and terrific story that I can highly recommend.ness that she is a really 'good' person. Lucas' character is complex as well, but he is unraveled more so towards the end of the book. There is a profusion of secondary characters, who are dealt with quite well, along with a few small doses of humor thrown in. There are not a lot of love scenes here, as the mystery takes more of a precedence, but what passages there are, do get quite sensual without being minutely detailed. All in all this is a wonderfully robust and terrific story that I can highly recommend.	2002-11-17
1338440:US	45284807	R1LX0OAEHOWCPK	0553574256	289958781	The Bride's Bodyguard	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Romance and Mystery	Tessa Lorimer was spoiled rotten by her long sought after French grandfather that she had finally discovered after escaping from her guardians in England. She had always been a handful and had been requested to leave from more private schools than you could count. But one thing she knew, since finding her way to France, her grandfather loved and doted on her - every one did, with her beautiful looks, her love of life and laughter - life was good. Well, that was until Ross Trevenan, gloriously handsome, arrogant and infuriatingly self-righteous, had come to be her grandfathers secretary and confidante. Within minutes they had both taken an instant dislike to one another.<br />Set during the upheavals of Napoleons reign, her grandfather was in failing health and believing that she would be safer in England, he and his old friend Ross, actually the Marquis of Sayle, were set upon smuggling her back into England for her own safety. That of course was just one of the reasons, but the other was that Ross, feared for her safety and the knowledge that she held the key to why several young women had been murdered, including Ross' wife Cassie.<br />An elaborate scheme had been set in motion for her protection and without her knowledge to spirit her back to England - only Tessa, independent and stubborn, was not about to go anywhere with this arrogant, infuriating man. After a few attempts to escape Ross, he finally did get her to England where she learned the truth of who he was! Ross had given Tessa's grandfather his word of honor that he would protect her - even if it meant marrying her!<br />The story is an edge-of-the seat fast moving romance and mystery that is difficult to put down. The sexual tension is real just enough to give you a taste, but not overly explicit. Throw in numerous well drawn out secondary characters, including a very vindictive ex-mistress of Ross', a mysterious drowning, and the tense cat and mouse mystery of who is murdering young ladies, and you are in for a real treat. Very good story.u are in for a real treat. Very good story.	2002-11-16
1339135:US	45284807	R1VL0Q5AGEWJ1P	1558177485	452238164	Cherished	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Good story and twisty ending	Lady Emily and her younger sister Sara had grown up with Leon Devereux.  Their Uncle having been appointed guardian to both Emily and Sara was married to the French &eacute;migr&eacute; Zoe who was brother to Leon - so in effect, though not related, they had all grown up together.  Emily and Leon were like oil and water, constantly bickering through her childhood while young Sara worshiped him.<br />On Emily's sixteenth birthday, Sara had overheard Leon agreeing to a tryst with and older woman and told Emily.  In trying to save Sara from doing something very foolish, Emily went to try and stop Leon.  She arrived early and fell asleep then was awakened and was witness to Leon in the throes of a most intimate nature - quite horrifying to a young innocent.  Terrified and humiliated to have seen, what she determined was a savage act, she ran to a tower room that was a known sanctuary of hers.  Leon followed her and Emily hysterically shot him by accident.  One thing led to another, assumptions were made that Leon had compromised Emily, and three days later Emily and Leon were married.  Her Uncle extracted a promise from Leon that he would give Emily time to get used to the idea of marriage and encouraged Leon to go to America and build a life for himself.<br />Leon returned to claim Emily and the battles began. Leon, who had always loved Emily, had to try to convince her that although the marriage was forced, it was what he had always wanted as he waited for her to grow up. It is a story of the struggles they both endured, along with the mystery of accidents that began to happen that convinced Leon that the horrors of his youth fighting in the underground against Napoleon were coming back to haunt him and all that he held dear.  Someone was trying to kill them and Leon would have to protect Emily without letting her know that their very lives were in danger.<br />One can assume that the scene Emily had witnessed of Leon and a willing bed partner could be construed as animalistic to an uninitiated young innocent and was horrifying to her. This one element was by far the hardest that Leon had to work hard to make her forget before they could be a happy family<br />Emily, who had always tried to take care of her younger sister, had to overcome the guilt she felt for taking away the love of Sara's life and thinking that Leon was really in love with Sara; wiping away the memory of the carnal scene she had witnessed of Leon with another woman; and then adjusting to a new life in America after being taken away from the aristocratic life she had grown up with in England where Lady Emily would now only be known as Mrs. Leon Deveraux.  .<br />This was a really robust and fast moving story, well thought out and plotted with numerous sub-plots and secondary characters, along with a great mystery and an ending that is pretty surprising.  You can feel the anguish Emily was under and the frustration of Leon.  I especially liked the historic insights of the early America and Canada. Very skillfully written - this is a book that I can highly recommend.to an uninitiated young innocent and was horrifying to her. This one element was by far the hardest that Leon had to work hard to make her forget before they could be a happy family<br />Emily, who had always tried to take care of her younger sister, had to overcome the guilt she felt for taking away the love of Sara's life and thinking that Leon was really in love with Sara; wiping away the memory of the carnal scene she had witnessed of Leon with another woman; and then adjusting to a new life in America after being taken away from the aristocratic life she had grown up with in England where Lady Emily would now only be known as Mrs. Leon Deveraux.  .<br />This was a really robust and fast moving story, well thought out and plotted with numerous sub-plots and secondary characters, along with a great mystery and an ending that is pretty surprising.  You can feel the anguish Emily was under and the frustration of Leon.  I especially liked the historic insights of the early America and Canada. Very skillfully written - this is a book that I can highly recommend.	2002-11-15
1345185:US	45284807	RDJ8M86HVHS4C	0821767836	865210007	Much Obliged (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Funny but not believable	This second novel by Jessica Benson was another light read comedy of errors using an abundance of fresh witty dialog that saved this novel from becoming too boring and unbelievable.<br />It starts off with two deaf ladies discussing the latest on dits contained in the boxing column of the London Post - again, funny, witty dialog - then switches over to our hero, John Fitzwilliam, holding a poultice over his blackened eye as he reads the same column describing his embarrassing defeat.  The boxing column and the unknown anonymous writer are key to the original plot depicting our heroine, Addie Winstead, as anonymous in order to help ends meet in their not too well to do household. This was an original concept in depicting a regency era young lady with a wealth of knowledge on a subject that would have been quite taboo during that period.<br />Fitzwilliam, and Addie had been betrothed by their respective fathers from birth only Fitzwilliam, was not ready for marriage, now and probably not ever as he was having too much fun sowing his oats and believing that he would be exactly like his father.  His childhood memories of a not so rosy marriage between his parents, with both parties being indifferent to one another, along with his father's numerous affairs did nothing to entice him to enter the marital state.<br />Addie, who had grown up idolizing and loving Fitzwilliam ever since she could remember, had quietly waited for him to `come up to scratch', yet, in her heart, knew she could never marry him knowing that he would be doing so as an `honor bound duty'.  So rather than him ever knowing her financial difficulties, she would continue her clandestine writing as anonymous.<br />Caring about his old childhood friend, he felt that he should do the honorable thing and release her from the betrothal so that she could get on with her life and accept another suitor.  It was like a `wake-up call' for him as he realized after he released her; looked at the grown up woman she had become; and kissed her that she sparked something in him that was not at all a familiar feeling. It was after that kiss that a chance discovery, that could have ruined her, by a drunken friend mistaking Addie for a lightskirt led Fitzwilliam to declare her to be his `betrothed'.<br />Addie, so hopelessly in love, thought that she would save Fitzwilliam from marrying her by accepting the suit of an absolutely revolting `mama's boy'. Even then, Fitzwilliam could not admit that what he felt was anything akin to love, yet he did not want to see her throwing herself away on such a prig as her newly betrothed!<br />The multitude of secondary characters and the dialog saved this story from being tossed aside by this reader as I found it hard to believe that such a forward thinking heroine such as Addie would have stood one moment for such a self-righteous prig of fianc&eacute;.  No one woman could have endured this man let alone the forward-thinking Addie. The other problem I saw was that her sister, who she was extremely close to, would not have told her fianc&eacute;, who was Fitzwilliam's best friend, what the real problem was!e had become; and kissed her that she sparked something in him that was not at all a familiar feeling. It was after that kiss that a chance discovery, that could have ruined her, by a drunken friend mistaking Addie for a lightskirt led Fitzwilliam to declare her to be his `betrothed'.<br />Addie, so hopelessly in love, thought that she would save Fitzwilliam from marrying her by accepting the suit of an absolutely revolting `mama's boy'. Even then, Fitzwilliam could not admit that what he felt was anything akin to love, yet he did not want to see her throwing herself away on such a prig as her newly betrothed!  <br />The multitude of secondary characters and the dialog saved this story from being tossed aside by this reader as I found it hard to believe that such a forward thinking heroine such as Addie would have stood one moment for such a self-righteous prig of fianc.  No one woman could have endured this man let alone the forward-thinking Addie. The other problem I saw was that her sister, who she was extremely close to, would not have told her fianc, who was Fitzwilliam's best friend, what the real problem was!	2002-11-10
1346587:US	45284807	R10Y1N7OQJUWFE	082176537X	362644397	Lord Stanhope's Proposal (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Thoroughly Enjoying	This was my very first novel by Jessica Benson.  From the very first pages of the prologue, so many characters ? and I do mean CHARACTERS - being introduced all at once! I thought I might have to list them in order to keep them straight.  Let me say did read this book and found it to be a delightful regency romp that was extremely amusing.<br />Calista Ashton, the vicar?s sister, was a bit of a blue stocking, an aging spinster at the age of four and twenty who?s main interests were doing fine deeds, reading scandalous books, racing fine steeds, and looking forward to an independent life once she acquired a small inheritance on her next birthday.  She had no intentions of marrying and was quite content with her life exactly the way it was!<br />Now, enter a trio of London fops, Oswald, Neville, and Squibby who head out to visit their friend, Elmo Lyttworth in the country.  Believe me when I say this, you could liken this trio to the three stooges.  Lord Stanhope?s aunt, has banished his cousin Oswald from the London Season to the country to atone for making a spectacle of himself at Almack?s - this along with the directive that he seek a bride in order to settle himself down.  Forever, getting himself involved with one fiasco after another, Oswald, before leaving London, initiates a bet at Whites that he would be engaged to the ?old? spinsterish Calista Ashton, before returning to London.<br />Now, his cousin Tristan, the Earl of Stanhope, has heard of this latest escapade and feels it his duty to try to extricate his cousin out of this latest scandal before the poor unsuspecting spinster hears of her name being bandied about in White?s or, his Aunt hears of Ossies? latest folly.  Using the excuse of buying a filly from Elmo Lyttworth, Tristan dispatches a letter to announce his intention of visiting and acquiring said filly. Lady Lyttworth, interprets the letter to mean that the Earl of Stanhope is going to offer for her daughter ? thinking that his reference to a filly  is how ?sportsmen? would refer to a comely girl!  And so this story is set in motion and this great comedy of errors begins! This was an absolutely delightful and darling story.  I found myself thoroughly enjoying the outrageous dialog between the cast of secondary characters who made me think I was in the middle of a ?Three Stooges Movie?.  The dialog was fast, witty and amazingly fresh!<br />The romance between Tristan, Lord Stanhope, and Calista was refreshing and sweet, laced with just enough double entendres, and snappy comebacks, to give you nice warm fuzzy feelings.  This is not to say that this romance ran smoothly, not when you have to include the witchy sister-in-law, matchmaking mama, three London fop bachelors, and a despicable revolting Squire looking to make Calista his wife to care for his seven motherless brats! No, the romance was not without it?s impediments but it was quite satisfying nonetheless!  I most definitely recommend this book to lovers of regency romance genre who wish a LARGE sprinkling of humor mixed in with their romance!  This is an author to watch ? I feel a new star has been born!o a filly  is how ?sportsmen? would refer to a comely girl!  And so this story is set in motion and this great comedy of errors begins! This was an absolutely delightful and darling story.  I found myself thoroughly enjoying the outrageous dialog between the cast of secondary characters who made me think I was in the middle of a ?Three Stooges Movie?.  The dialog was fast, witty and amazingly fresh!<br />The romance between Tristan, Lord Stanhope, and Calista was refreshing and sweet, laced with just enough double entendres, and snappy comebacks, to give you nice warm fuzzy feelings.  This is not to say that this romance ran smoothly, not when you have to include the witchy sister-in-law, matchmaking mama, three London fop bachelors, and a despicable revolting Squire looking to make Calista his wife to care for his seven motherless brats! No, the romance was not without it?s impediments but it was quite satisfying nonetheless!  I most definitely recommend this book to lovers of regency romance genre who wish a LARGE sprinkling of humor mixed in with their romance!  This is an author to watch ? I feel a new star has been born!	2002-11-09
1349776:US	45284807	R1KYIAQPD0QDQL	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	HOT Stuff	Merry Vance was something of a hellion, spoiled, with a mind of her own.  Being the daughter of a powerful Duke she was also expected to obey and marry.  Determined that she would not lose control of her destiny to a mere husband not of her own choosing she would take matters into her own hands - she would do something so scandalous as to ruin herself in the eyes of the ton.<br />Having met the scandalous and most sought after artist Nicolas Craven who just happened to have rescued her form being accosted one night, she thought he might be just what she needed. He thought her a servant, and as such, offered her his card wishing she would come and model for him. Working out an elaborate ruse with her best friend so that her family thought she was away in Scotland, she approached Nicolas as the servant he thought her to be, saying she had just been tossed from her position.<br />Nicolas was not immune to a woman's charms - he'd had several models and affairs, none ever lasting longer than a month or so or  until the painting was done - quite a lover but never in love.  Divine sexual satisfaction would be all they would get from him - but nothing more.  Merry knew this, but the feelings he stirred in her were also something she would have no control over - and for that matter, she had no intention of ever marrying anyhow so...<br />The nude painting of her was done, the centerpiece of Nicolas' exhibition. Merry's original intent was to scandalize herself in the eyes of the ton but when it came right down to it she was a coward to face her parents. She ran again, still not telling Nicolas who she was, she took him up on an offer to see Venice.  Her brothers finally caught up with her and dragged her home. Leaving Nicolas feeling bitter and betrayed.<br />Both Nicolas and Merry had secrets they hid from one another - their true identities were one, Nicolas' son another, as well as the love they both began to feel towards one another.  They both gained from the relationship as well, Merry, finally realizing that she was beautiful when seen through Nicolas' eyes, and Nicolas, opening up to finally tell her the truth about his son and, knowing he loved her, the strength to admit who he truly was and to try to live up to be the person Merry deserved.<br />I really liked this story.  I love the fact that both of these people grew so much. It took a bitter parting and time, but they needed the time to discover hidden strengths within themselves.  The sex in this story was really, really hot - more so I think than the first novel - but tastefully done.  It was a very good story, again, not for the faint hearted but one I would definitely recommend.nship as well, Merry, finally realizing that she was beautiful when seen through Nicolas' eyes, and Nicolas, opening up to finally tell her the truth about his son and, knowing he loved her, the strength to admit who he truly was and to try to live up to be the person Merry deserved.<br />I really liked this story.  I love the fact that both of these people grew so much. It took a bitter parting and time, but they needed the time to discover hidden strengths within themselves.  The sex in this story was really, really hot - more so I think than the first novel - but tastefully done.   It was a very good story, again, not for the faint hearted but one I would definitely recommend.	2002-11-06
1351155:US	45284807	R1W4Z1D4GM9UKD	0515130990	612858686	Beyond Innocence	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Hot and Sensual	Florence Fairleigh is the innocent - daughter of the recently deceased vicar of a small village, she has come to London to ask a solicitor friend of her late father's for assistance in finding a sponsor that would help her to find a husband.  Her sights were not set on a love match, but she thought herself attractive enough to at least find a suitable husband that would be able to provide for her some semblance of security and a home.  She was willing to risk one half of the meager inheritance she had left towards this cause.<br />The solicitor knew of the recent scandal surrounding the Earl of Greystowe's younger brother Freddie and thought that this might be the answer to everyone's prayer.  He broached the subject with the Earl and arranged for him to view the young lady without her knowledge, to ascertain whether he thought she would be a prospective bride for his brother.  The Earl was quite smitten himself with the girl and set in motion a plan to have her sponsored by the dowager Duchess, his Aunt Hypathia.<br />Clueless as to what plans were made behind her back, Florence was taken in, appropriately gowned and presented to the ton, with the help of the Duchess, and her two nephews, Edward and Freddie.  Freddie, with his charm and good looks soon became Florence's best friend as Edward did his best to bury the growing lust and connection he felt towards Florence by appearing gruff and unapproachable.  Edward's entire life had been devoted to caring for his younger brother. He had to save Freddie and he would be willing to go to any lengths to accomplish that, including forsaking any thoughts of taking Florence for himself.<br />What follows is a very erotic tale of Edward trying his best to control his lust for Florence.  Florence, the innocent, was too naive in the beginning to realize what her body was telling her every time she and Edward touched, but eventually the urges got the better of both of them. Quite sinfully delicous! WOW!<br />This is the very first novel I have read by this author - it most certainly will not be the last.  The war Edward fought with himself in trying to do what he considered was the best thing for his brother was quite touching - one could feel the love and devotion projected here.  Edward's attraction to Florence and his struggle to do the right thing for his brother was so very well developed, you felt his torment as well.  Written with deep erotic sexual undertones, it is not for the faint hearted.  The story itself is quite different, not your usual run of the mill romance and the sensuality projected here is quite HOT!  Personally, I loved it and look forward to reading the sequel  - Beyond Seduction.irst novel I have read by this author - it most certainly will not be the last.  The war Edward fought with himself in trying to do what he considered was the best thing for his brother was quite touching - one could feel the love and devotion projected here.  Edward's attraction to Florence and his struggle to do the right thing for his brother was so very well developed, you felt his torment as well.  Written with deep erotic sexual undertones, it is not for the faint hearted.  The story itself is quite different, not your usual run of the mill romance and the sensuality projected here is quite HOT!  Personally, I loved it and look forward to reading the sequel  - Beyond Seduction.	2002-11-05
1352001:US	45284807	RZOBZA8VXFM27	0843950455	640369645	What She Wants	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Score another Hit for Lynsay Sands	Lynsay Sands is a master at dialog - I almost think she must have been a stand up comic in a former life as the dialog in this book will have you on the floor laughing hilariously.<br />Earl Hugh Dulonget of Hillcrest, warrior and knight extraordinaire has just inherited an Earldom.  Nothing for nothing, being the case there was one minor caveat - that being that he must marry.  Not that the would be bride wasn't pretty enough - Lady Willa was beautiful - but dressed as she was - he assumed she was a peasant and had just insulted her by calling her one!  Now, if you could picture in your mind, Larry, Moe and Curly (the three stooges) giving advice on how to win back her esteem, you can just imagine the attempts Hugh has been going through to get back in her good graces! Hugh's men-at-arms, his cousin and Willa's uncle were almost as clueless as Hugh in how to court a Lady!<br />The old witch who was Willa's guardian, told Willa that the only way she could accept Hugh for her husband and live happily ever after would be for him to crawl on his belly - seriously - Willa was not to accept his suit until he performed this task.  Hugh being the stalwart warrior that he was would find this to be a difficult task - of course, he was not aware that this was what would get Willa to say yes either!  As it so happens, through a series of mishaps, Hugh does end up crawling through the mud and Willa does agree to marry him.<br />One would think that this knight would then know what to do next other than the fact that through some misguided attempts by both the parish priest and the old witch with their instructions for the marriage bed - one wonders that the deed was ever done.  In a more serious vein, there is also woven into this story, the mystery of the many attempts on Willa's life, and the prediction that Hugh and Willa would have a long and happy life - once Hugh solves a puzzle.<br />There were numerous secondary characters that added a full body lushness to this very funny, medieval mystery.  Between the witch, the men at arms, the gay cousin, etc. the double entendres and extremely witty conversations will keep you laughing out loud and turning the pages well into the night to finish the tale. The one exception I had, to giving this an overall 5 rating was the fact that Hugh was too often made to look like a complete buffoon and I really like my heros to be more herolike!  This is, of course, just my opinion.  Other than that - I really do recommend this book for anyone looking for a lot of laughs and a light and entertaining read.funny, medieval mystery.   Between the witch, the men at arms, the gay cousin, etc. the double entendres and extremely witty conversations will keep you laughing out loud and turning the pages well into the night to finish the tale. The one exception I had, to giving this an overall 5 rating was the fact that Hugh was too often made to look like a complete buffoon and I really like my heros to be more herolike!  This is, of course, just my opinion.  Other than that - I really do recommend this book for anyone looking for a lot of laughs and a light and entertaining read.	2002-11-04
1352912:US	45284807	R3M8Y1BFUAIQWJ	0743419154	759611923	The Fire Inside	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you like your hero's SEXY... then this is for you!	I read this second book of the trilogy out of sync - unfortunately - but found myself to be totally enchanted once more by Kat Martin's plots, and characters.  Of course, this book, does stand quite well on its own merits and if you do read it out of sync with the other two, no matter. But seeing as how I had read Heartless first, I was already, waiting ANXIOUSLY for Clay's story, because he was such a drop dead gloriously handsome guy, even if he was the worst sort of rake.  Of course we all know that rakes do make the best husbands once they've been caught.<br />It took a little hellcat, like Kassandra (Kitt) Wentworth to first capture his attention and `light his fire' she most certainly did although he was loathe to admit it.  Kitt and Clay were the original oil and water mix.<br />They had known each other for years and Clay did admit a grudging admiration for the little spitfire who created one scandal after another.  He even found a certain enjoyment in goading her on.  It was one such escapade, where they found themselves in a very high stakes game, in which she recklessly won then lost a fortune.  Her father hearing of this latest scandal, laid down the law, by first locking her in her room for two weeks and demanding she select a suitor to marry within two months or she would be sent to a convent for the next four years.<br />Clay hating to admit it, found himself thinking of her more and more often and enjoying his other female conquests less and less, so when the opportunity to trick her into a wedding - she vowed never to wed - arose, he conspired with her father and managed to wed her.  Clay was so in love that he agreed to not push her into consummating the marriage until she was ready.  With great care and pain on his part he was able to break through her defenses after discovering her tragic secret - and if nothing else she began to trust him and to her great horror, she realized she had begun to love him.<br />Where this story broke down for me, was when Kitt, realizing she loved Clay, ran away because she didn't want to have her heart broken when he tired of her and would surely take a mistress.  Kitt being the spitfire in the beginning, became a wimp! I was very upset that she didn't realize that the tenderness and care he gave should have shown her how much he cared. I confess I was not happy here.<br />The fight back to regain Clays trust and love was quite good and then when Clay almost lost her to an old enemy, he finally was ready to admit his love and begin to trust again. The introduction to Adam Hawthorne, Earl of Blackwood, and inclusion of him as a secondary character is wonderful and sets the stage for the third book of this trilogy - Fanning the Flame.  All in all, this is a great series, well worth the read and highly recommended, was when Kitt, realizing she loved Clay, ran away because she didn't want to have her heart broken when he tired of her and would surely take a mistress.  Kitt being the spitfire in the beginning, became a wimp! I was very upset that she didn't realize that the tenderness and care he gave should have shown her how much he cared. I confess I was not happy here.<br />The fight back to regain Clays trust and love was quite good and then when Clay almost lost her to an old enemy, he finally was ready to admit his love and begin to trust again. The introduction to Adam Hawthorne, Earl of Blackwood, and inclusion of him as a secondary character is wonderful and sets the stage for the third book of this trilogy - Fanning the Flame.   All in all, this is a great series, well worth the read and highly recommended	2002-11-03
1353435:US	45284807	R2U98KTSLIMVSQ	0312979444	539399007	Heartless	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Awesome Story of Trust	Was it so wrong to dream of a better life, than the one she had? Ariel Summer, the fourteen year old daughter of a tenant farmer on the estate of the Earl of Greville didn't think so. She had heard stories that the Earl liked to have young mistresses - not really realizing what being a mistress entailed - and thought herself pretty clever in making a bargain with him.  If he would send her to school, so that she could become a `proper lady' she would become his mistress in order to pay him back. Being exceptionally pretty, a deal was struck and she was sent to a finishing school.<br />Justin Ross, the Earl of Greville, hadn't known love in his life, only rejection.  The fact that he was formally adopted and inherited the title from his father was that he was the only male issue!  Cold and hard as he was, his word was his bond, and a promise was made to his dying father to take care of this `ward' of his father's.  For the next two years, he continued to pay her expenses without Ariel knowing that the old Earl had died.<br />It was several years later that she was finished with the school and expected to pay her part of the bargain.  Unfortunately for Ariel, she now had a better understanding of what being a mistress entailed and was prepared to ask that she be able pay back the Earl in some way other than expected.  Unfortunately, the present Earl, was the bastard son of the old Earl she originally made her bargain with. Justin had read the letters she had sent, addressed to the Earl of Greville, over the past 4 years and he was enchanted with her innocence.  Justin, never thought that he would feel emotion or passion again, but from the moment he saw Ariel, he was lost.<br />This was really great story.  Ariel, while waiting for the Earl, met a man she thought would be Prince Charming, Philip Marlin  - unknown to her he was really a notorious rake and a sworn enemy of Justin Ross.  Ariel's most redeeming quality was her honesty, and she believed the lies that Philip told her about Justin.  The fact that Justin would not release her from her debt made her think that Justin was the worst cad and very dangerous.<br />I have to mention that the secondary character of Justin's best friend Clay plays a very great part in helping Ariel to realize that Justin's wall of coldness is but a sham and that he really does have a heart.  Clay also convinces Ariel that she could be the key in helping Justin realize that his heart could be made to experience love!<br />It was both a delight to see Justin and Ariel's interaction and watch the trust and love build and heartbreaking to see them almost lose everything due to the treachery of outside forces.  The story is quite rich in sensuality and moves so swiftly that you cannot put it down. Wonderful story!  Both Justin and Ariel are very well fleshed out and the author sneaks in a couple of secondary characters that give you a real taste of a sequel to come.  For myself, I can't wait to hear the rest of the story!hilip told her about Justin.  The fact that Justin would not release her from her debt made her think that Justin was the worst cad and very dangerous.  <br />I have to mention that the secondary character of Justin's best friend Clay plays a very great part in helping Ariel to realize that Justin's wall of coldness is but a sham and that he really does have a heart.  Clay also convinces Ariel that she could be the key in helping Justin realize that his heart could be made to experience love! <br />It was both a delight to see Justin and Ariel's interaction and watch the trust and love build and heartbreaking to see them almost lose everything due to the treachery of outside forces.  The story is quite rich in sensuality and moves so swiftly that you cannot put it down. Wonderful story!  Both Justin and Ariel are very well fleshed out and the author sneaks in a couple of secondary characters that give you a real taste of a sequel to come.  For myself, I can't wait to hear the rest of the story!	2002-11-03
1358380:US	45284807	R33G01IGNIDXB	0440236940	270118303	The Secret Lover (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 6)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A TRUE Love Story	This was such a fabulous story!  From a previous Rouges novel \\"The Ruthless Charmer\\" you would have been introduced to our heroine, Lord Kettering's youngest sister, Sophia Dane.  Even if you had not read the earlier novel, you would very easily be able to pick up this book and with the prologue, surmise Sophia's earlier years and the scandal that had surrounded her eight years prior to the setting of this story.  Shipped off to, France, from the scrutiny of London's haute ton, Sophia had led a quiet existence, never calling attention to herself, living quietly and healing herself, both physically and mentally.  She has spent the last seven years as the companion to the widow and very eccentric Lady Honorine Fortier accompanying her on her travels through Europe.<br />The journey Sophia took as the companion to Lady Honorine was exceptional, but for Sophia the trip back to London, would be the most eventful so far - the haute ton had long memories, especially where the scandal Sophie had caused was so great!  For Sophie, years earlier, rocked the ton by first eloping with what turned out to be a beast of man, then obtaining a parliamentary divorce - unheard of by those of the upper class!<br />Her family supported Sophie in her introduction back into the ton events and had hopes of her being accepted, especially when a very desirable widower Lord Trevor Hamilton started paying her marked attention.  The old Sophie would have been thrilled at Trevor's marked attention, but the new older and wiser Sophie had a niggling suspicion that all was not what it seemed.  Trevor had never given her a second look back in the old days, and now, practically a social pariah he is going out of his way to court her? Trying to step back Sophie had found a quiet place that restored her soul - and it was in this setting that she met the man who would become quite dear to her.  Caleb Hamilton, half illegitimate brother to Trevor - shunned by the ton for the fact of his base born birth, yet in him Sophia found a kindred spirit and soul mate. As her relationship with Caleb grew, Trevor became more insistent in his pursuit.  Naturally, Sophie's family was intent upon restoring her to respectability and brought pressure to have her accept the suit of Lord Trevor.<br />It was absolutely inspiring to see Sophie's growth.  No longer the frightened young girl, but a woman who would stand on her own two feet and make choices that were hers alone to make - not for the sake of propriety, not for the sake of her family whom she loved dearly, but for herself.  This was indeed a true love story.  Wonderfully heart warming and thrilling - and may I say, that the sensuality was just `over the top'!<br />Reading this you will just fall in love with Sophie and Caleb both - they are just so RIGHT for one another. You will stand up and cheer for Sophie taking a stand against the the ton and family members who continually tried to make decisions for her. You will absolutely love Lady Honorine who is just a wonderfully loving `true original' who found her own true love as well.  You will be amused by Lady Honorine's two gay sidekicks - Fabrice and Roland and the intractable housekeeper Lucie Cowplaine. All of these characters will remain in your heart long after you turn the last page.  Lastly, you will take my advice and go and get a copy of this book, and treasure it as I will to reread again and again! Absolutely wonderful!et in him Sophia found a kindred spirit and soul mate. As her relationship with Caleb grew, Trevor became more insistent in his pursuit.  Naturally, Sophie's family was intent upon restoring her to respectability and brought pressure to have her accept the suit of Lord Trevor.<br />It was absolutely inspiring to see Sophie's growth.  No longer the frightened young girl, but a woman who would stand on her own two feet and make choices that were hers alone to make - not for the sake of propriety, not for the sake of her family whom she loved dearly, but for herself.  This was indeed a true love story.  Wonderfully heart warming and thrilling - and may I say, that the sensuality was just `over the top'! <br />Reading this you will just fall in love with Sophie and Caleb both - they are just so RIGHT for one another. You will stand up and cheer for Sophie taking a stand against the the ton and family members who continually tried to make decisions for her. You will absolutely love Lady Honorine who is just a wonderfully loving `true original' who found her own true love as well.  You will be amused by Lady Honorine's two gay sidekicks - Fabrice and Roland and the intractable housekeeper Lucie Cowplaine. All of these characters will remain in your heart long after you turn the last page.  Lastly, you will take my advice and go and get a copy of this book, and treasure it as I will to reread again and again! Absolutely wonderful!	2002-10-30
1361088:US	45284807	R2XM0YNWFEMR07	0440236908	767194494	The Beautiful Stranger (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Series Conclusion	The last of the unmarried Rogues, Arthur Christian, the untitled son of the Duke of Sutherland, is attempting to make reparations for his misspent youth - bored and still blaming himself for not having done more to prevent Lord Phillip's death.  Now, three years later, Phillip's father barges into a soir&eacute;e, hosted by Arthur, demanding that he clear up a bad investment he neglected to steer Phillip away from which added further dishonor to his memory. The request would take Arthur to Scotland and the most enchantingly down to earth female he had ever met.<br />The widow, Kerry MacKinnon, was a beautiful and loving woman who had spent the last seven years caring for her sickly husband.  He had died not quite a year ago and try as she might to keep what was left of the clan MacKinnon together at Glenbaden, the days mail had brought about the straw that would be breaking the camel's back. She is desperate to save her home from ruin and travels to Perth to try to find a way to pay back the debt.<br />After several mishaps with Kerry, accidently shooting Arthur, they find themselves stranded together on the road and have to hike through the Scottish highlands to try to get back to Glenbaden. Arthur, always the gentleman, does get her back home with neither realizing that he was the one that initiated the eviction that is forcing her from her land.<br />While waiting to complete his business, he stays in Glenbaden, helping Kerry with the mundane chores of keeping up the property and gains a deep appreciation for the land, the people, and especially for Kerry, whose strength and lack of artifice is so enchanting to him.  Kerry has by this time fallen thoroughly in love with Arthur, and Arthur has yet to realize that what he feels for Kerry is love.  Through a tragic event, Kerry is forced to flee Scotland with Arthur.<br />I really enjoyed this story.  They were from two totally different worlds - she the widow of a Scots farmer and he the son of powerful Duke.  He quite optimistically thinks that because of his standing, the ton will accept her.  Even though their completely different backgrounds could never condone a marriage, he just knows that he really cannot live without her, and he proceeds to try to shape her into someone else.  It was Kerry who realized that though they loved one another, his world was not one that she could live in. I really liked the fact that she could see what Arthur could not and though it broke her heart, she was strong enough to stand by her principles. She left Arthur, fleeing back to Scotland to save her cousin, from the crime she had committed in self defense, and possibly lose her own life in the process.  It was finally the reality of losing her so completely that brought Arthur to realize what was really important to him and what really mattered if only he would not be too late!<br />This was an absolutely wonderful story written with enormous feeling that just draws you in from the very beginning.  You will find yourself really living this story and rooting for the good guys.e optimistically thinks that because of his standing, the ton will accept her.  Even though their completely different backgrounds could never condone a marriage, he just knows that he really cannot live without her, and he proceeds to try to shape her into someone else.    It was Kerry who realized that though they loved one another, his world was not one that she could live in. I really liked the fact that she could see what Arthur could not and though it broke her heart, she was strong enough to stand by her principles. She left Arthur, fleeing back to Scotland to save her cousin, from the crime she had committed in self defense, and possibly lose her own life in the process.  It was finally the reality of losing her so completely that brought Arthur to realize what was really important to him and what really mattered if only he would not be too late!<br />This was an absolutely wonderful story written with enormous feeling that just draws you in from the very beginning.  You will find yourself really living this story and rooting for the good guys.	2002-10-28
1361173:US	45284807	R11QW0AO41DYQF	0440235626	319402260	The Ruthless Charmer (The Rogues of Regent Street, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Story	This book was a surprise.  I confess, I was not quite sure where it was going in the beginning, as there were some very comical situations that Julian Dane, the Earl of Kettering was involved in.  Claudia Whitney, our heroine, and the childhood best friend of Julian's sisters, also had some very comical moments as well.  Julian was the older brother, left with the care of four sisters after the death of his parents.  He indulged his sisters beyond belief and their best friend, Claudia, had become like another sister to him.<br />Having always thought of her as another sister, albeit, a holy terror, feelings changed for him two years prior, when she walked into a ballroom and he saw her for the first time as a very beautiful and desirable woman.  Unfortunately, his best friend at the time, Philip spoke up first and set his sights on Claudia.  An unspoken vow, with the `Rogues' was that no one would ever pursue another rogues love interest. Of course, now that Philip was dead....<br />Both of them, individually trying to drown their true feelings, re-discovered each other at a party. During this fateful party Claudia and Julian let their feelings get the better of them and were caught in a most compromising position.  Julian is more than willing to offer marriage to Claudia, who promptly turns him down.  Secretly, Claudia had always hero-worshipped and loved Julian Dane, yet she was afraid to let him know it because she had listened to rumors and did not want to have her heart broken. Her father, once hearing the scandal forced Claudia to accept his proposal.  Convincing Claudia of his love and that he was no longer the rake she thought of him would take all of Julian's charm.<br />The story deals quite a bit with trust and a somewhat tragic story of a failure to communicate.  Through a misconstrued message from Claudia to Sophie, Julian's youngest sister, to follow her heart, a tragic set of circumstances is set in motion - circumstances that would tear any type of trust that was built between Julian and Claudia beyond repair.  Along with the Julian/Claudia love story, there is this other more serious matter - that of Julian's sister Sophie, whose low self-esteem and impending coming of age annuity made her ripe for the pickings of a real low life and dangerous fortune hunter.<br />I loved the characters who were both complex and strong, yet so very fragile and needy.  It was a joy to read how they could overcome almost insurmountable deceptions to find their way back to one another - a truly glorious journey.  I would definitely recommend this book.e of trust that was built between Julian and Claudia beyond repair.  Along with the Julian/Claudia love story, there is this other more serious matter - that of Julian's sister Sophie, whose low self-esteem and impending coming of age annuity made her ripe for the pickings of a real low life and dangerous fortune hunter.  <br />I loved the characters who were both complex and strong, yet so very fragile and needy.  It was a joy to read how they could overcome almost insurmountable deceptions to find their way back to one another - a truly glorious journey.  I would definitely recommend this book.	2002-10-28
1365006:US	45284807	R1GFXHQET5572Q	0440216478	807513970	Come the Dawn	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Awesome Adventure and Love Story	In this sequel to Come the Night you will find a wonderful blend of passion and adventure as well as being reintroduced to the eccentric Delamere family.<br />India has returned home after a year after witnessing the horrors that accompanied the battle of Waterloo where she waited for the handsome and charming, reckless adventurer the 12th Earl of Thornwood, Devlyn Carlisle. Waiting patiently as one after another wounded soldier came back she lived in hope until she was told that someone witnessed Devlyn being cut down on the battlefield with a bayonet through his chest - a wound that no one could survive.<br />She had lost much more than her love, but after a year of mourning it was her grandmama that would insist she put away her mourning and attend a ball, after all she was the Delamere heiress and had a duty to marry and carry on the Delamere line.  She would hide her pain and smile as if her heart were whole and not left on the battlefield of Waterloo.  At the ball she looked across the floor and saw the face of the man all thought was dead - his face but a stranger who looked back.<br /><br />Set in the aftermath of Waterloo, Lord Thornwood is on a mission to thwart the efforts of a band of sympathizers that are working to free Napoleon.  Spies, intrigue and murder as desperate people search for Napoleon's diamonds to fund another war.<br />The story is bittersweet, but oh so lovely of India loving the very handsome Devlyn, Earl of Thornwood who had no memory of the love they briefly shared, or did he?  Was the last mission he must undertake more dangerous than the battlefield.  Would the loss, be more painful to him, to risk losing the love of the only woman that ever meant anything to him for the sake of his country?  It is a story most poignant and sweet.  India would not give up without a fight and found herself constantly in trouble as she sets out to solve the mystery of Lord Thornwood.<br />India and Devlyn are a great couple and the addition of so many new and familiar secondary characters make this a wonderful fast-paced adventure.  The three children that are Devlyn's wards are simply sweet and their dialogs add some levity to this adventure and mystery. One of the children, Alexis, should definitely have her own story. And what can be said of the Duchess of Cranford other than we really need to see her story (hint, hint Ms. Skye). Wonderful story, characters you can become involved with and want to hear more from!  I really hated to see it end!ny new and familiar secondary characters make this a wonderful fast-paced adventure.  The three children that are Devlyn's wards are simply sweet and their dialogs add some levity to this adventure and mystery. One of the children, Alexis, should definitely have her own story. And what can be said of the Duchess of Cranford other than we really need to see her story (hint, hint Ms. Skye). Wonderful story, characters you can become involved with and want to hear more from!  I really hated to see it end!	2002-10-24
1366959:US	45284807	RFCPLN4OZEJEX	0440226317	57073862	The Devil's Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming Love Story	Abigail Carrington had loved Michael all her life.  From the age of nine when dressed as a pirate she was the `hellion' aboard her father's ship.  Michael Ingram, born to privilege but due to his father's considerable gambling debts was working on the ship as a way of somehow helping to keep his father afloat.  To him the `hellion' was no more than a spoiled brat and hardly worth a second thought.<br />Twelve years later, Abigail had come to England to fulfill the conditions of her father's will and marry Michael Ingram, now the Viscount Darfield as stipulated in an agreement Michael had signed when he was 19 in order to save his ancestral home.  Although, Michael had paid his fathers debts and thought himself free from that agreement, he did not know that behind his back, his father had continued to borrow and he was still in debt and honor bound to marry the `hellion'.<br />Although she had not seen Michael in 12 years, through her father's machinations, she spent the those years believing  that Michael loved her, because her father perpetuated the myth over the years sending her gifts, supposedly from Michael, and passed along messages that he couldn't wait to be married, etc..  Abbey, lived and breathed of the dream world that was created for her by her father and was shocked to find the very cold indifference and downright hostility that emanated from the man she was to marry.  Michael was furious over her father's will and warned her that she would not be happy and left immediately after the wedding. From this rocky start you have two people, Abbey in love but cast aside, and Michael forced into a marriage he does not want, but not being able to get out of it without creating more scandal.<br />Eventually, her charm overcomes his resentment and they both come to a loving understanding but eventually their idyllic time in the country is spoiled by outside forces that threaten to tear them apart.  An old enemy forces a confrontation that threatens the love and trust they worked so hard to build.  It is a true test of strength from both, as Michael realizes that he has fallen hopelessly in love with Abbey, but questions her loyalty.  And Abbey who knows she loves Michael, would give her life for him - and almost does - yet can she trust her heart to him again.<br />This was so good.  Abbey is a delight the person you want to have as a friend, quite charming.  Michael is brooding at first but then Abbey's love warms him right up to be a terribly nice person.  This is a wonderful story of love and forgiveness, trust and respect.  Truly a touching and wonderfully fast paced story.  You will find yourself cheering these two on to finally believe in one another and the love they are meant to share.  Lovely story!rust they worked so hard to build.  It is a true test of strength from both, as Michael realizes that he has fallen hopelessly in love with Abbey, but questions her loyalty.  And Abbey who knows she loves Michael, would give her life for him - and almost does - yet can she trust her heart to him again.   <br />This was so good.  Abbey is a delight the person you want to have as a friend, quite charming.  Michael is brooding at first but then Abbey's love warms him right up to be a terribly nice person.  This is a wonderful story of love and forgiveness, trust and respect.  Truly a touching and wonderfully fast paced story.  You will find yourself cheering these two on to finally believe in one another and the love they are meant to share.  Lovely story!	2002-10-23
1367255:US	45284807	R37S6Z5FTNY3DQ	0380773864	876694885	Bridge of Dreams	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Forging a Bridge of Love	The ancestors of Dominic Montserrat and Cathlin O'Neill - the Mad Gabriel Montserrat and Geneva Russell -  had sworn always that their love would be `Together' and `Forever' - to last longer than Gabriel's mortal life.  An oath or an omen, as Gabriel's destiny was struck and a promise made.  It was an all encompassing love that was so very bittersweet. Their promises would pass beyond the bonds of time - past death itself.  And so begins another story set against the backdrop of the wonderful Draycott Abbey.<br />Dominic Montserrat is brought to Draycott Abbey by his friend Lord Nicholas Draycott after the discovery of Dominic's long dead ancestor Gabriel Montserrat.  Gabriel had been shot then entombed by a madman and left to die.  As he sat dying, he wrote a will in his own blood that stated that the oldest living descendents of himself and Geneva Russell inherit a case of 1794 Chateau d'Yquem - roughly estimated in value to be worth close to two million pounds.  Conditions for this will were that the two co-inheritors spend seven days in Draycott Abbey - with one another condition which I won't mention because it would spoil the fun!<br /><br />Cathlin O'Neill, the descendant of Geneva Russell, would be a hard to convince with the conditions as she had visited Draycott Abbey once before at the age of 10 years, and it was there that her mother had been murdered.  Memories of the murder were locked away, too painful and traumatic to remember. Not only that, but her first impression of Dominic was that he was a rich, noble playboy and she wanted nothing to do with `his kind'.  Dominic's first impression of Cathlin was anything but dislike....he was highly attracted to the very beautiful Cathlin, but trying to separate his feelings from the business proposition at hand would take every ounce of self-control he possessed.<br />Intermingled with the battles that these two modern day people were having were flashbacks of their `other lives' those of Gabriel and Geneva during the tumultuous days of the French Revolution where Gabriel was thought of as a rake and a reckless hero of sorts saving people from the guillotine.  And, Geneva, who was trying to convince him to try one more rescue of her only surviving relatives before they would fall under the blade of the guillotine.<br />The story is a non-stop page-turner, flawlessly moving back and forth in time through the memories of these reincarnated souls.  Again, with our resident ghost and companion Adrian and Gideon, who help as much as they can to try to set the modern day lovers along the right path in solving the mysteries of 200 years ago, also helping Cathlin to unlock buried memories in solving the murder of her mother, and trusting herself to believe that she could love again.<br />I feel as though I am there with Ms. Skye's superb writing and breathtaking imagery.  Reading her books is like stepping into the very skin of her characters. Effecting such ease in going back and forth between time takes on a whole new meaning when it flows from the pen of this accomplished author.  This is another wonderful book in the Draycott Abbey series that should not be missed by any of her fans.  Wonderful book!ring the tumultuous days of the French Revolution where Gabriel was thought of as a rake and a reckless hero of sorts saving people from the guillotine.  And, Geneva, who was trying to convince him to try one more rescue of her only surviving relatives before they would fall under the blade of the guillotine.<br />The story is a non-stop page-turner, flawlessly moving back and forth in time through the memories of these reincarnated souls.  Again, with our resident ghost and companion Adrian and Gideon, who help as much as they can to try to set the modern day lovers along the right path in solving the mysteries of 200 years ago, also helping Cathlin to unlock buried memories in solving the murder of her mother, and trusting herself to believe that she could love again. <br />I feel as though I am there with Ms. Skye's superb writing and breathtaking imagery.  Reading her books is like stepping into the very skin of her characters. Effecting such ease in going back and forth between time takes on a whole new meaning when it flows from the pen of this accomplished author.  This is another wonderful book in the Draycott Abbey series that should not be missed by any of her fans.  Wonderful book!	2002-10-22
1368716:US	45284807	R2GMP8PNJHYUU	0440216443	730904978	Come the Night	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Sizzles - Just Sizzles!	One thing I must state up front, Christina Skye has not disappointed me yet. I know that whenever I pick up one of her books, it will have all the elements one could wish for in a period historical piece, devastingly handsome heros, spunky heroines and superb plots that will keep you guessing to the end.<br />In this offering, the hero is the famed highwayman, the Lord of Blackwood, out on the heath plying his trade, holding up those foolish enough to traverse  through the \\"Devil's Wood\\".  It was on this same night that Silver St. Claire, trying to make up for lost time would take the shortcut through these woods to meet an appointment.  Fate would have it that she meet up with the devilish highwayman that night.  After he traded barbs with her, he sent her back home only having to come to her aid again after three ruffians that set upon to rob and molest her.<br />Someone was out to force Silver and her brother from their home, Lavender Close - the same people, who perhaps had killed her parents. Silver had never believed the story that her father had committed suicide and the St. Clair pride and stubbornness would not let her be forced from her home and her beloved lavender fields.  Silver needed to have some help and after determining that the highwayman who had saved her (twice) was not the devil that stories told of, she went about to hire him to `ruin' her and help her to save Lavender Close. Not only that, but she really wanted to see him again!<br />The Lord of Blackwood, was a man driven by revenge, a hatred towards the man and the people that had forced him to betray his country, and to perform despicable acts upon the innocent.  These people had robbed him of his honor, and because of this, his very life and identity for he could not return to his family bearing the shame he felt after the things he had done.  His mission, via the disguise of the highwayman, Lord Blackwood, was a means for him to find and revenge himself on the person that had taken his life away from him.  He had hardened his heart - he needed his heart to be hard for revenge, yet this slip of a girl, smelling of lavender, and braver than any girl had a right to be was forcing him to feel, forcing soft hearted feelings and reminding him that he did have a heart and it was going to become quite difficult to wipe the memory of Silver St. Claire from his mind.<br />This story was a real page turner, trying to figure out who and what drove the Lord of Blackwood, the very real Lucien \\"Luc\\" Delamere.  The characters are fleshed out very well, and I absolutely loved Silver and her assumptions about \\"manly passions\\".  Her brother Bran was charming, as well as the two man-servants, Tinker and Josh.  All in all a very delightful read.  And, of course, one must not fail to mention that the pages just sizzle when the Silver and Luc do cross swords, oh yes, they do just sizzle!  Another win for Ms. Skye.life away from him.  He had hardened his heart - he needed his heart to be hard for revenge, yet this slip of a girl, smelling of lavender, and braver than any girl had a right to be was forcing him to feel, forcing soft hearted feelings and reminding him that he did have a heart and it was going to become quite difficult to wipe the memory of Silver St. Claire from his mind.<br />This story was a real page turner, trying to figure out who and what drove the Lord of Blackwood, the very real Lucien \\"Luc\\" Delamere.  The characters are fleshed out very well, and I absolutely loved Silver and her assumptions about \\"manly passions\\".  Her brother Bran was charming, as well as the two man-servants, Tinker and Josh.  All in all a very delightful read.  And, of course, one must not fail to mention that the pages just sizzle when the Silver and Luc do cross swords, oh yes, they do just sizzle!  Another win for Ms. Skye.	2002-10-21
1372965:US	45284807	R18XZW9QRU783Y	0440208645	327920648	The Ruby	Books	5	14	17	N	N	TERRIFIC Sensual Adventure	From the very first pages of this 500 page book the author will capture your attention starting with the prologue of a madman type `Jack the Ripper' finishing up one of his dastardly deeds. So you know that there is going to be some mayhem and mystery here, along with the quest for the Shiva Ruby, at once beautiful and deadly for all that try to possess it.<br />From the prologue you will first meet our heroine Barrett Winslow who is running in fear for her life along the London streets, guarding the secrets that will protect her grandfather. Along this same street that she will be pulled into the embrace of a mysterious dark skinned, foreign man in a turban, an embrace that will haunt the man and woman and change their lives forever.  It is in that fateful contact that begins this story of greed, madness, treachery and a love so sensually described that will make your spine shiver and your toes curl!  Although Barrett, is tempted to run away with him that very night, after the amazingly HOT kiss they shared, she refuses Pagan's offer and continues to run trying to elude the men who are after her. Too bad she didn't follow her first instinct, as she would have eliminated the next three months of torture and degradation that followed her imminent capture.<br />Through the evil machinations of a madman, Barrett is found three months later by Deveril Pagan washed up on his beach in Ceylon.  He doesn't quite recognize her as the dye she had been using to disguise herself in London had washed out.  On top of that, the beard and disguise he sported in London were gone.  Then again, Barrett had suppressed all the horrors and pain of the last three months and has lost her memory.  Somehow, Pagan `felt' he knew this woman from London, but also knew that she could never have ended up on his deserted beach without the help of his worst enemy.  He fought his attraction, constantly reminding himself of the dangers but never quite conquering the all consuming desire he felt for this, his Angrezi.<br />This is an amazingly sensual trip that two extremely stubborn and haunted individuals took.  Both fight the unknown nightmares each had, trusting no one, nor their feelings.  Through the discoveries made on their trek to Pagan's tea plantation in the jungles of Ceylon, amid the dangers both human and of nature, they come to trust one another, but more than that to let their love heal and soothe their nightmares away.<br />Excellent writing, fast paced, exciting adventure,  and very hot love scenes!  Another winner for Ms. Skye!this, his Angrezi. <br />This is an amazingly sensual trip that two extremely stubborn and haunted individuals took.  Both fight the unknown nightmares each had, trusting no one, nor their feelings.  Through the discoveries made on their trek to Pagan's tea plantation in the jungles of Ceylon, amid the dangers both human and of nature, they come to trust one another, but more than that to let their love heal and soothe their nightmares away.<br />Excellent writing, fast paced, exciting adventure,  and very hot love scenes!  Another winner for Ms. Skye!	2002-10-17
1375500:US	45284807	R3PA6NA1UJ3FRZ	0440209293	901504109	Black Rose	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Wonderful Love Story	I just finished this book - quite long at close to 500 pages but the story was so fast paced that I found myself staying up quite late (for me) to finish it!  The story is rich in historical detail set during the time of the Napoleonic wars between England and France.<br />It is the story of Tess Leighton - the \\"Ice Queen\\" beautiful, inn-keeper at the \\"Angel\\" who harbors secrets and nightmares she shares with no one. Tess, who gave her heart and soul to a Dane St. Pierre, the Viscount of Ravenhurst who deserted her five years before.  She, now plays the inn keeper by day, and a smuggler by night.<br /> Dane, only knows that she betrayed him and now he is out to catch the `Romney Fox' leader of the smugglers. He knows that Tess is involved and is out to unmask the `Fox' and scourge her from his soul at the same time.  The last five years have been torture for Dane - war could not erase the longing for, nor the pain of her treachery from his soul. Even though they both still `burn' for one another their stubbornness and willful pride, lets neither know the entire story of what happened to one another on that fateful night.<br />This story is filled with adventure and intrigue and very descriptive and sensual love/lust scenes.  While the first part of the book, seemed somewhat choppy rather than flowing along nicely and left me scratching my head a few times - the second half took off like a rocket! The fainthearted reader may be upset by a very explicit rape scene but don't let that deter you. After all, these were brutal times. I was quite amazed at the turn-around and also the way the story went.  Up until then I thought I had this story all figured out.  I was so torn, at one point over the direction our heroine was going that I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was not what I thought - can't tell you anymore or it ruins the story! I will only say that this story had me biting nails (again) and it is a marvelous love story!	2002-10-15
1378757:US	45284807	R12GWE6T4JAHW	0515131903	432015597	Laird of the Mist (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Sequel	Wow! This new author has just exploded on the scene with her second novel and sequel to the Border Bride! Her Star is certainly rising and I advise all of you out there to watch her.<br />This is the sequel to The Border Bride - and although I would say that it can and does stand alone, your enjoyment will be doubled if you read the other first and then pick up this one.  In reading the Border Bride, I was not overly fond of our hero Alistair Kirallen but in the opening of this sequel, you begin to see what motivated him to this point in his life and you come to care deeply, as he struggles to overcome his feelings of guilt and rage.  The author, lets you see into his heart, and the reader can feel his pain and deep abiding sorrow over the loss and blame he feels towards his foster brother Ian.<br />There is a touch of the mystical here, where Alistair first sees the woman who will pull him back to the land of the living. Alistair and Deirdre met in a dream, but when the reality of life puts them together the all encompassing sexual attraction is sizzling, but extremely dangerous for both.  Deirdre Maxwell is the heroine in this story, the very battered and abused wife of a madman in a neighboring clan, Brodie Maxwell, and Alistair did not know she was Brodie's wife when he signed on with him as a `sword for hire'.<br />What follows is an edge of your seat thriller that had me biting my nails as it seemed as though these two would never get together, due to battles, treachery, and inopportune moments of guilt.  As in her previous novel, you will also be amused by the entrance of the ghostly spectre of Alistair's foster brother Ian.  Their conversation/arguing back in forth when no one else could see him was an amusing touch.  All in all, this book is destined for my keeper shelf and Ms. English will become an immediate buy! Outstanding work and I cannot wait for the next offering whom I hope will cover Ronan, and young Robin and Maeve.	2002-10-13
1379291:US	45284807	R2PLL7EBZ4SYXL	0380768321	672406452	Avon Books Presents: Bewitching Love Stories	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Super Great Stories	Bewitching Love Stories<br />Anthology -<br />Devil's Keep Rebecca Brandewyne 5*<br />This was a real sensual delight and so worth the entire book - although the other stories were very, very good.  Count Drago von Reicher puts an advertisement in the paper for a governess for his son. Lenore Blakely answers the ad after being turned down so many times before due to a lack of references from former employers. It seemed that wives did not look kindly towards beautiful governesses once their husbands and sons were effectively rebuked by Lenore.  She is hired sight unseen and without an interview by the Count - her first inkling that something might not be right.  But, considering the fact that  she was close to being totally impoverished, she accepted the position.  Upon meeting her employer, the extremely dark and enigmatic Count, her first instinct was to run, but after gazing into his eyes this soon became an impossibility.<br />The reader as well as our heroine is then hooked - pulled into this devastatingly sensual adventure to mind boggling delights of the senses.  The love story here transcends all time and is truly fabulous for such a short novella.<br />Vanquish the Night - Shannon Drake 4*<br />Colonel Michael Johnston, famed war hero and Indian fighter felt the evil coming into the night on the cool breeze, but never imagined it would be a fight for the very survival of the woman he loved.<br />Anne Pemberton was a descendant from a very strong woman, one who committed suicide rather than live with evil.  The very  handsome and enigmatic, David Drago had searched for centuries to find Anne, the one woman he would take for his bride to live in the darkness and evil that was his domain.  It took all the faith and love Anne and Michael had for each other to face down and destroy the vampire - proving that love and faith could conquer evil.<br />This was a very fast and sensually written read with this time, a very bad type vampire! Good story.<br />My Aunt Grizelda by Kasey Michaels 4*<br />I really liked this story which kind of reminded me of Cinderella and gave me visions of the very inept and bumbling witch from the TV series Bewitched .  Do you remember Aunt Clara?  As you read this delightful story - Aunt Clara is pictured quite vividly in my imagination.  The sensuality is minimal in this story of the governess who falls happily in love with the Earl, but the laughs are numerous.  Ms. Michaels witty dialog is delightful and this story is quite like reading a fairytale.  But I do believe in magic and fairytales so - Yes - I liked it!<br />What Dreams May Come -  Christina Skye 5*<br />Re-enter the ethereally beautiful world of Draycott Abbey, where Adrian Draycott, the resident ghost and caretaker resides with his ever faithful companion, Gideon.  Once more, Adrian has been awakened with feelings of danger in the wind.  He is feeling depressed, ever since he had helped his brother (in one of his many incarnations) find his way back to loving his reincarnated soul mate.  With Nicholas and K.C. on their honeymoon, he is really annoyed that a woman has entered his precious Abbey.  More annoying is the fact that without trying, his ghostly being has become quite real, flesh and blood!  And, this woman has aroused in him feelings in his, shall we say, man-parts, that haven't been aroused in centuries!<br />Who is this woman, Gray Mackenzie?  Why can she see him, and touch him and arouse him to such a fever?  What is the secret she hides, and why can he not remember who she is?  In this very, very sensual offering from Ms. Skye you are in for the treat of your life as you  experience a most ghostly affair!  Dynamite love scenes that will curl your toes! And of course, there is Adrian, my own personal dream of who I'd like to haunt me!  Super read.a by Kasey Michaels 4*<BR>I really liked this story which kind of reminded me of Cinderella and gave me visions of the very inept and bumbling witch from the TV series Bewitched .  Do you remember Aunt Clara?  As you read this delightful story - Aunt Clara is pictured quite vividly in my imagination.  The sensuality is minimal in this story of the governess who falls happily in love with the Earl, but the laughs are numerous.  Ms. Michaels witty dialog is delightful and this story is quite like reading a fairytale.  But I do believe in magic and fairytales so - Yes - I liked it! <br />What Dreams May Come -  Christina Skye 5*<BR>Re-enter the ethereally beautiful world of Draycott Abbey, where Adrian Draycott, the resident ghost and caretaker resides with his ever faithful companion, Gideon.  Once more, Adrian has been awakened with feelings of danger in the wind.  He is feeling depressed, ever since he had helped his brother (in one of his many incarnations) find his way back to loving his reincarnated soul mate.  With Nicholas and K.C. on their honeymoon, he is really annoyed that a woman has entered his precious Abbey.  More annoying is the fact that without trying, his ghostly being has become quite real, flesh and blood!  And, this woman has aroused in him feelings in his, shall we say, man-parts, that haven't been aroused in centuries!<br />Who is this woman, Gray Mackenzie?  Why can she see him, and touch him and arouse him to such a fever?  What is the secret she hides, and why can he not remember who she is?     In this very, very sensual offering from Ms. Skye you are in for the treat of your life as you  experience a most ghostly affair!  Dynamite love scenes that will curl your toes! And of course, there is Adrian, my own personal dream of who I'd like to haunt me!  Super read.	2002-10-12
1384562:US	45284807	R1HRC95G5YS0YE	038082082X	724787021	The Rake (Lessons in Love, Book 1)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	No Matter what - Still a Great Book	I've read the other reviews and have to disagree with the negativity by some of the other reviewers.  Suzanne Enoch has created another wonderful story!<br />At first, I didn't know whether or not I still liked Lord Dare after finding out what he had done to Geeorgiana so many years past. Yes, he was a rake of the worst sort, but you have to realize he was young and dumb, and his worst mistake was to not try to make amends way back then!<br />Georgiana and Tristan both had a lot of growing up to do and in this novel you saw them both grow and both become nicer people. In Georgiana's quest to teach Tristan a lesson - she learned a lesson as well! You still experienced the same wonderful Enoch sense of humor, the amazingly witty dialog and the very sensual foreplay and sex! The love story was sweet, and I really liked this story and would definitely recommend it to my regency loving romance friends.  I look forward to more from Suzanne Enoch in this next \\"Lessons in Love\\" series!	2002-10-07
1386899:US	45284807	R1YW6K6N69420S	0380818507	82826908	A Matter of Scandal (With This Ring, Book 3) (Vol 3)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Scandally Delicious	I found myself gasping out loud quite a few times while reading this book as the dialog was so very witty! The insults between the two main characters,Emma Grenville, headmistress of Miss Grenville's Academy, and Greydon Brakenridge, Duke of Wycliffe were priceless!  Couple that with some of the comments coming from 'the mouths of babes' or the younger students at the Academy and you are in for a real treat!<br />One thing you do get when you read Ms. Enoch is outstanding dialog and this story is a prime example of her genius with snappy comebacks! I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would highly recommend this to anyone looking for a hot and steamy battle of the sexes!	2002-10-05
1387597:US	45284807	RAU236HZPNE4C	0380809168	580833959	Reforming a Rake (With This Ring, Book 1)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fabulously Witty Dialog	I have to say that in this first of the trilogy, Suzanne Enoch has given us a rake who is soooo sexy that I had to fall in love in the first chapter.  He is the irrepressible and obnoxiously delightful Lucian Balfour, Earl of Kelrain.  His insults to his Aunt and cousin are so bad you would have to hate him for being so obnoxious, but in fact they are so witty, they're hilarious! He is being forced by conditions in his fathers will to make sure that his cousin be presented and wed to a person of the nobility.  Unfortnately, the aunt has no taste in clothing, is loud and gossipy. So Lucien must find a governess to guide and teach them the finer points of decorum around the ton.<br />Alexandra Gallant, has been applying for governess jobs for the last 6 months with no luck becuse of an unfortunate incident from her last position.  When she applies for this position, Lucien hires her immediately based on her looks and the fact that he wants her more than any woman he has ever seen.  When she tries to be honest about the unfortuante incident, the sinfully gorgeous earl hires her anyhow with promises of a mind boggling and toe curling suggestion of why he is hiring her.  Of course, the monthly salary he offers her is more than she earned annually on her last job and being quite near the end of her funds, she takes on the job.<br />The dialog is hilarious.  Both the Earl and Alexandra are stubborn to a fault and their bantering back and forth is extremely funny.  This book is a marvelous read and very difficult to put down! I highly recommend this for those who have never read a Suzanne Enoch book or for those who have.... She does not disappoint. This is a definite keeper!  Great fun read!	2002-10-04
1390731:US	45284807	R3C913FL8EWAZ5	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	From Great to Fabulous	Okay, so I am a huge fan of Lisa Kleypas and I absolutely adored Only in Your Arms only I never remembered the sexual encounters to be as HOT as they were in this re-write! WOW - score a 10 on the sensuality scale!<br />I liked Maximillian Vallerand before but loved him here....so absolutely in control!  I don't remember Lysette as being quite so spunky before either.  All in all, if you are looking for a VERY STEAMY romance to put you in the mood.... look no futher because this one will positively ignite you!<br />Briefly, the story is the same....Lysette is running from a mean step-father who is forcing her to marry, Etienne Legesse, a well to do Creole, who is also a bit of a drunken pig.  Maximillian's twin sons Phillipe and Justin find Lysette trying to escape in the bayou and bring her home to their father.  Upon hearing who she is betrothed to, Max decides then and there that he will ruin her if only to pay back Etienne for having an affair with and murdering Max's wife, Corrine.  Naturally, Max comes to care for then admittedly fall in love with, Lysette.  The mystery is who really killed Corrine after everyone has assumed it was Max all these years who murdered his own wife.<br />Great story even when it was Only in Your Arms.....SUPER story with the heightened sensuality!	2002-10-02
1392184:US	45284807	R1MWNBPWJCCF73	0312956029	631063659	Bride of the Lion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding!	Jocelyn Montagne was always treated as more of the black sheep in her family, especially when compared to the silvery blonde beauty of her step-sister.  She was the product of a politically arranged marriage that her father was forced into.  Jocelyn was capable and worked beside the servants, therefore when her father and step-brother were called away, she could assume the duties of chatelane.<br />Arrogant, dangerous and blessedly handsome, Robert de Langley waited for the right moment and choose that time to re-claim the de Langley castle that the Montagnes had stolen from his family thru treachery. Robert reclaimed the castle and faced the daughter of his enemy, Jocelyn.<br />Armed with a small dirk, Jocelyn, stood up to Robert with strength and determination and negotiated her and her sisters imprisonment.  She may have appeared strong, but underneath she was not immune to the handsome warrior, Robert de Langley. They developed a friendship based on respect for each other that soon blazed into a most compelling and sensual love story.<br />This was my first book by this author and certainly not to be my last if this is an indication of her taleny.  The Historical details added so mych flavor to this stunningly beautiful tale.  Definitely a keeper and not to be missed.  The love scenes are wonderful!	2002-09-30
1392474:US	45284807	R34GJH99UX9712	0515133620	346308894	Tapestry	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Fabulous Anthology	TO KISS IN THE SHADOWS - What a great story! Lynn Kurland tells the tale of Lianna of Grasleigh, once beautiful but now her face ravished by the effects of the pox. She was shunned, ridiculed and kept to the shawdows.  Jason de Piaget finds her and is attracted by her personality, when he does see her face, he can still see the beauty of the person she is. He was shunned as well - guilt by association because of his connection to the Lord of Blackmour reputed to practice the 'dark arts'. They find a love together that lets them love amongst the treachery and intrigues of court.  AN INTERRUPTED TAPESTRY by Madeline Hunter is the story of Andreas von Brennan and lady Giselle.  Once close friends but separated  for the last 10 years. She comes to him in anger not knowing why he had broken the friendship - he was her last hope to save her brother.  The years passed but the attraction is still there.  This is another fine entry by a wonderful medieval author.  DRAGONSWAN by Sherrilyn Kenyon - This was my introduction to this author.  Never considering myself a huge fan of fantasy type stories, I was very pleased with this story.  It was written with a huge dose of love and compassion.  The dialog was also quite witty and fresh! Super story!  INTO THE DREAMING by Karen Marie Moning - Again, another new author for me in this time travel story.  Aedan had been tricked by the fairy king in order to save his people, what he thought was imprisonmen for 5 years was actually 5 'fairy' years - (100 human years equals one 'fairy' year)  After being frozen in time and for 500 years and given subconscious directions, he had forgotten who he was.  Jane had been dreaming of her knight rescuer for years, she knew exactly who he was so when she was sent a tapestry with the face of her knight on it whe was transported back in time.  She had one month to make Aedan remember who he was and why they would always be to together!<br />All in all - these were four SUPER GOOD stories by four extremely talented authors.  Excellent offering and a keeper!extremely talented authors.  Excellent offering and a keeper!	2002-09-30
1392497:US	45284807	R2IK0FF2YBHLPG	0515131547	818770007	The Border Bride (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Story & Plot	They had been feuding for years - the Darnley's and the Kirallens.  So, when the Kirallen clan captured the heir of the Darnley family the ransom terms would be steep - especially since it was Lord Darnley who had murdered the Kirallen heir, Ian some months back.<br />Hoping to end the feud, heartsick over the loss of all the innocent lives, the laird of the Kirallen clan negotiated sheep, money, and the hand of Lord Darnley's daughter in marriage to the second Kirallen son, Jemmy.<br />Lord Darnley agreed to this but deviously would substitute a [different] 'daughter' rather than his beloved daughter Lady Maude.  Holding hostage the 8 year old brother of Alyson McClarn, Lord Darnley forced Alyson to pose as Lady Maude for the wedding ceremony, spy on the clan Kirallen until he could effect a massive strike against the Kirallen's.<br />This was an outstanding story with great writing by this new author.  I was so impressed I have ordered the sequel 'Laird of the Mist'.  She has fleshed out the characters so very well you really feel kinship with them.  I loved the addition of a little paranormal ghost as well.  This is a SOLID five star read! This will go on my keeper shelf.	2002-09-30
1392682:US	45284807	R65AFNVHYACMO	0060092645	979727315	My Favorite Bride (Governess Brides, Book 6)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	No Singing but Really a Great Read	In this latest addition to the Governess Bride series, Ms. Dodd has given us one of her most spunkiest heroines, Samantha Pendregast - former pickpocket - now governess extraordinaire.  Unfortunately, she is a fabulous governess with no really good recommendations because of her penchant for outspokeness that has her championing the unfortunate! But she is great with children!<br />Having been released from her last position without a reference Lady Adorna has sent her out of London into the country to care for the six orphan daughters of Colonel William Gregory.  (Yes, this does smack a little of the plot from Sound of Music but it does stand on its own - contrary to what other reviews have said)<br />Colonel William Gregory was a widowed military man who was quite proper and cold and had no idea how to distinguish bringing up children from disciplining recruits.  Enter Samantha! In her own way, she stands up to the Colonel and teaches him how to deal with his children! He is so honest and moral that she knows that if he ever found out about her previous life he would toss her out like old newspaper!<br />In order to fight the attraction he feels for her he invites the Lady he deems would make a proper wife and mother to his children to hostess a party for him.  Unfortunately, the Lady in no way cools his building ardor for Samantha.<br />The witty dialog is a pure delight and the passionate sexual encounters are HOT! The addion of the precocious daughters turn this into a very delightful read.  I loved every minute of it even if I did see Sound of Music - it was different enough to be truly enjoyable!	2002-09-30
1392857:US	45284807	RJE77J1B6720	0553577603	608249327	The Witch and the Warrior	Books	5	12	12	N	N	WARNING - Do Not Start at NIGHT - You Won't Put It Down	Outstanding book! Condemned to be burned at the stake for witchcraft, Gwendolyn McSween, has borne the ridicule and hatred from her clan all her life. She has resolved that she will die and expects no rescue which is why when Alex (Mad laird of MacDunn) and a few of his clan effect a daring resue from the flames her hopes are raised.<br />Alex MacDuff only knows that the 'witch' of the neighboring clan is his last hope to save the life of his beloved son. He expects to see an old hag being dragged to the stake and is surprised to see the witch is not a hag but a beautiful young maid. Gwendolyn's biggest problem is that she is not a 'witch' and has no pwers to cure - so if she cannot save the laird's son, she's dead anyhow! Talk about caught between a hard place.......<br />Alex has not been the same since he lost his beloved wife and if he loses his son..he feels he will die as well.  Gwendolyn is an enigma to him. He vowed never to love again and yet this 'witch' seems to have cast her spell over him.  Only a very special love can save him from his madness and the very corageous and selfless 'witch' just may be his salvation.<br />The secondary characters are really funny in this love story especially the three elders of the clan! The warning is real - this is a 'read through the night book' - Get it - you will not be sorry!	2002-09-30
1393115:US	45284807	R3W0UT6AYNP84Z	0743419162	604430790	Fanning the Flame	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Most Excellent	Adam Hawthorne, Earl of Blackwood, was a man haunted by nightmares that drove him to seek solace in the early morning hours galloping horseback in the park. It was here that he first spied Jillian Whitney, a young lady whose quiet countenance intrigued him.  Some mornings later he rode with a friend who introduced him and gave him the latest gossip that Jillian was living with the elderly and much older nobleman.  Given the period, she was labled a fallen woman and snubbed by the ton.<br />The night Jillian's beloved guardian is murdered - she ran from the house - right into the arms of Adam who decided then that he would have her.  Under the guise of hiding her from the authorities, he brought her to his home and became her protector and defender.  Primarily, this was to eventually bed her, but he finally came to believe in her innocence and set out to help her prove it.  Women had been his downfall, he would never love again, but his body ached for her - he had to know the truth before he would take her.<br />The story is really quite good and the sex is hot! It is suspenseful and keeps you guessing right up to the end! (I thought it was the butler!) There is also a secondary love story that evolves here in this book which is also quite good.	2002-09-30
1393309:US	45284807	RYSKCCV0JY9KE	0553298712	908897788	Last Bridge Home (Sedikhan)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Short but Interesting	This was a very short story at just a little over 200 pages in a larger print.  It was an interesting concept and did have me turning the pages to try and figure out all the secrets that were abundant in this story.<br />Without giving away the plot (that would not be fair) suffice it to say that it was something of a futuristic fantasy and quite lovely. I has some intrique but rather short to be developed too fully.  For a quick read it was a good book.  Interesting.  Different sexual encounter but stamy just the same.	2002-09-30
1393831:US	45284807	RTXK3X5FKVMSV	0380798867	562252278	Taming Rafe (The Bancroft Brothers)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good Book	Rafael Bancroft introduced in &quot;Love Undone&quot; is a Rake! The original 'love um and leave um --- adventurer, world traveller and insistent upon making his own way without help from this father - the Duke!.  When he wins an estate, Forten Hall, from Nigel Harrington in a game of chance, he is thrilled - for here is his ticket to more adventures and travel.  All he has to do is find a buyer and he's on his way.<br />Unfortunately, when Rafe travels to Chesire to inspect his newly won property, not only has it fallen into ruin, but he is attacked and knocked senseless by the two remaining Harringtons -- Felicity and eight year old May - the sisters of Nigel Harrington.  When Rafe finally comes to - it is to see the face of an angel - an angel that is going to throw a monkey wrench into his travel plans.  How can he leave these two lovely ladies on their own with a roof about to cave in on them? His sense of honor (?) keeps him there - or is it something else - maybe attraction?<br />This has delightful characters, wonderful dialog - fast moving and quite funny.  Loved it!	2002-09-29
1410971:US	45284807	R15AG0W95YLDRK	0671521446	361602284	Carried Away	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely Precious	This is a great book.  You have two love stories here, one so sweet you want to get misty over it(Calumn and Amy) and the other is Eachann and Georgianna - theirs is mostly a fight til the death - but outrageously funny, and passionate! The secondary characters add to the fun - Fergus who is blind as a bat and won't wear glasses; and Eachanns two kids, Kirsty (Heathen #1) and Grahm (Heathen #2) - To say there is a discipline problem here is to put it mildly!<br />The two brothers, Eachann and Calum - let's just say they're a little like the odd couple, Felix and Oscar - only much handsomer!  Get the picture?  Now get the book and thoroughly enjoy the story!	2002-09-12
1412900:US	45284807	R1SMNG3XHVEPMW	0743410181	910941653	Temptation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Original Feminist	This was an okay story.  The lead female character was something of a feminist, and not your usual dewey eyed 18 year old, rather a 30 year old career type woman ahead of her time.  The setting starts off in New York City 1909 and Temperance is fighting the good fight to protect woman from abusive men.  Enter her mother and new step -father who wisk her away to Scotland. It's a man's world and what was her mothers funds have now become the property of her new step father and of course, women have no rights.  Not that the step-father is a bad man just a very STUBBORN Scot!<br />Now in order for Temperance to gain her freedom and return to New York life she has to find a bride for his nephew James, the Laird of Clan McCairn.  James is a hunk - plain and simple but also - a Stubborn Scot.<br />The escapades of finding a bride that would be acceptable to James, and Temperance setting his house to rights is where most of the comic relief comes in.  The romance is pretty hard to define as the attraction is there but two very stubborn people take a long time to admit to it. Just when you think you know how this all ends, you do get a curve ball thrown in.  I won't spoil the story by telling you what it is though.<br />The book is typical Jude Deveraux, perhaps not as much romance but enough of her tradmark humour to really enjoy. Very good book!	2002-09-11
1414678:US	45284807	R36XC0XVO9I1NS	0380798859	613392965	By Love Undone	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Super Good Read	Madeline Willits is living as the companion to Mr. Bancroft at Langley, happy in the country away from London and the nobility of the ton.  Five years previous she had been the toast of the season until a drunken sot compromised her and the fickleness of the nobilities regard turned declaring her ruined. Now, another noble, Quinlin Bancroft, Marquis of Warefield, has come to Langley to attend Mr. Bancroft and see that Langley is being managed properly.<br />Madeline, Miss Maddie, couldn't stand Quin because of his rank and treated him disdainfully from the very start.  Quin could not figure out just what is was about him that Maddie hated, as even though he was betrothed there was something about her that attracted him - could it have been the insults she threw at him any chance she could?  When Quinn finally kisses her, his uncle forces him to do the right thing and try to repair the damage done to her by re-introducing her to the ton as respectable.<br />Ms. Enoch has given us another highly enjoyable sparring of the two main protagonists...so much sparring in fact that I wondered if they would ever get together.  Very, very enjoyable and the very heated argument between Quinn and Maddie in the Bancroft library was - to say the least VERY HOT!!! Great read!	2002-09-09
1415169:US	45284807	RNU6XNBSC4308	0380788136	758055593	Stolen Kisses	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Jack Faraday - One of your top 10 Rogues!	As a devoted reader of Regency Romance novels I must say that Jack Faraday, Marquis of Dansbury, has to be high on the list of the top ten rouges - if not right there! You have to love him!<br />Across a the crowded ballroom of Almacks, on a lost bet with his mistriss, Jack Faraday, spotted the most stunning lady he had ever seen, Lilith Benton, known as the Ice Queen.  Thinking he would see just how icy she could be, he sauntered across the ballroom thinking to do a little melting! He met his match as upon hearing his name, which had the most notorious scandal attached to it, Lilith gave him the most publicly scathingly set down and cut he had ever experienced!  Jack furiously decided then and there that ruining her, would be be his revenge!<br />Lilith has for the past few years, been doing everything in her power to make a perfectly respectable marriage and restore her family's good name - any association with the notorious Marquis would hinder all her good intentions and she was determined to ignore him.  Jack on the other hand, was just as determined to tumble down her defenses and the excellent scenes so brilliantly dialogued are priceless!<br />As the story goes on and Lilith begins to thaw, and Jack begins to have second thoughts of her ruination they both band together in trying to avoid scandal over a Dukes accidental death.  Great reading and a super story!  Definitely on my keeper shelf!	2002-09-08
1416984:US	45284807	R1RDC8MGSF8QCN	0380788128	152325220	Lady Rogue	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Lady Rogue's a True Winner	This was an absolutely darling story and should be re-issued just so everyone gets a chance to read it!<br />Stuart Brantley shows up at the Earl of Everton's home towing a drowned rat he said was his son and demanding that the Earl fulfill a debt of honor and keep the 'lad' for a fortnight until he could make other plans.  Even disguised as a 'lad' the Earl, Alex Cale, could not help feeling something he didn't want to admit to towards this young boy.  Very suspicious of the French-raised 'lad' and the unrest caused in France by the escape of Napoleon, Alex fears the 'lad' is a spy and plans to keep an eye on him, only it doesn't take him long to figure out that the 'lad' is really a 'lass'!<br />Kit, or Christine, has never felt this way before and is instantly attracted to Alex, but knows that he is honor bound to keep her safe, even if the attraction is mutual. She has been posing as a boy for so very long, that it is really funny as she, with the help of Alex's cousin Ivy, gets instruction in how to act like a lady.  The scene where Kit has to learn how to dance, WITHOUT LEADING, is priceless!<br />What follows is the most delightful dialog and witticisms you will find as Kit continues the charade as a boy and becomes the toast of the ton, having half the young debutantes swooning at this handsome young man, who can outdrink, outgamble, and outswear - both in French and English - Alex's close associates!  This was a really fun story with great secondary characters adding so much more funny episodes that have Alex grinding his teeth over his 'cousins' antics.  Great fun to read and a wonderful love story to boot.  This one is a keeper!	2002-09-07
1419131:US	45284807	RNHML9S74AWRH	0743442725	662355506	The Art of Seduction	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Very Engaging Romantic Story	Parris Sutherland has always loved Dominick Carlisle.  He has been her hero, her friend since she was 6 years old.  After waiting 2 years for him to come home from school, she disguised herself at a masquerade ball and seduced him.  As he was slightly inebriated at the time, and Parris had grown up during that that time he did not know who the seductress was, other than that he had just deflowered a virgin.  Mistakenly, thinking that the hankerchief with the initials A.S. was his seductress, Parris' sister Annabelle, he feels honorbound to offer to marry her. When he came and  asked her sister to marry him, Parris is devastated. On the eve of their wedding, Dominick finds Annabelle making love to his brother. He tells her call off the wedding or he would - of course the story Annabelle tells makes Dominick look like the guilty party, but by then, he has left to join the military and doesn't come back for eight years!<br />It is now 8 years later and Dominick, now the Duke of Wakefield, has come home.  He has never forgotten Parris and after seeing her across a crowded ballroom knows he is still in love with her. Now he must do his best to win her back..... but there is this little matter of a very vengeful and spiteful sister who throws a lot of curves into this mix.<br />There is also a humourous side story of Dominick and his friend the Earl of Stratford, in trying to unmask Lady Scruples who is the voice of disdain riding roughshod over all the known rakes and rogues. The assumption being Lady Scruples is a sour old maid.  Eventually, Dominick discovers that Parris seems to be quite personally connected to Lady Scruples and uses this to his advantage in his quest to win her back.<br />This exciting romance is hot and steamy, the writing is fast and witty and the secondary characters add both charm and humour to this wonderfully written romance.  Definitely should be on your buy and keeper list!	2002-09-05
1419523:US	45284807	R1F4EJG9OBT5MC	0380780232	905386285	Angel's Devil (A Regency Romance)	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	Just Love these Devilish Rakes	This is a light but darling romantic triangle.  The very lovely and impatient Angelique Graham just knows she is in love with her darling Simon, but her parents are going to force her to wait nine months before they will even consider announcing the engagement.<br />Enter, Simon's scandalous rake of a cousin the disreputable Lord James Faring who is just home from the continent after a five  year absence.  He is recovering from wounds received in a war and wounds to his heart, but he is at once entranced with the little 'hoyden' Angelique from the moment they bumped into one another on the London docks.<br />After she finds out who he is - a plot is hatched to have James make overtures to her in front of her parents so that the parents would be happy to set an earlier date to save her from the clutches of 'the Devil'.  As, things will get on, it doesn't take long for the game playing to become serious and Angelique finds out who she truly does love!<br />A darling story....very hard to come by but well worth the effort.  You'll just love all the secondary characters, particulary Angeliques twin siblings - Henry and Helen, and the mastiff Brutus!	2002-09-04
1420598:US	45284807	R12B76N5MZC3VS	0743445813	399439520	Tea for Two	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If you like your tea HOT!	You can't miss with either of these exceptional authors!<br />IN A MOONLIT GARDEN  - Cathy Maxwell<br />Charming - Colonel Michael Stanson had been in love with Ivy for so long that when her father asked him to pose as a tea merchant to search an eccentric scientists house for a formula supposedly stolen from him, and the prize being Ivy's hand in marriage - he reluctantly agrees. He is an honorable sort, but he'd do anything to gain the very beautiful Ivy for his wife.<br />As soon as he laid eyes on the scientists niece Lady Jocelyn, he is soon quite taken with her goodness and charm, so much so that he agrees to help Jocelyn make her former beau jealous. (There are a lot of undercurrents in this short story) Why does Michael have trouble remembering what Ivy looks like?  Too many schemes and too many lies, as both Michael and Jocelyn find their way to both confess the real truths to one another.  Both the parties find they needed to reexamine their motives for what they once thought was love - thought provoking.  Absolutely delightful secondary characters!  You have to love Uncle Geoffrey!<br />HUNTING SEASON - Liz Carlyle<br />All I can say is `the kiss' - how can anyone make a thank you kiss so absolutely sensually sizzling! Wow! And mind you, this is in the first 18 pages!  This glorious rake - the Marquis of Grayston is one BAD boy and I would dearly love to meet him! Alas, he is the figment (?) of the very talented wordsmith Liz Carlyle.  Before he knows who she is, Christian, Marquis of Grayston is entranced with the lovely widow Lady Elise Middleton and she - in spite of all her lady like tendencies and upbringing is oh so tempted to just take him up on his offer of a `night of passion'.  Eventually, he must come to terms with what is most important to him the revenge of his sister's death, or the love of a good woman.  On the sensual scale of one to ten - this rates a 10!	2002-09-03
1423064:US	45284807	R2EB52ZNAYN4XO	0380780526	629240218	The Black Duke's Prize	Books	5	41	45	N	N	So Worth the Effort to Find This Book!	The very beautiful and very feisty Katherine Ralston was banished to London from her home Crestly Park by her very obnoxious uncle.  She was afraid that he would sell off her heritage while he disposed of her in London.<br />Her godparents were delighted to take her under their wing and introduced her to all the right people of the ton - including the notorious &quot;Black Duke of Sommesby&quot;, Nicholas Varon, who she insulted on the very first night she met him.  HE was surprised to say the least that this petite slip of a girl did not seem impressed with him, nor was she frightened of him either.<br />Kate's godfather, Neville requested that Nicholas because of his connections, attempt to buy Crestly on the quiet so that when the rightful heir was able to inherit it, in two years time, it wouldn't have been sold off to a stranger.  Of course, what Neville failed to let Nicholas know was that Kate was the rightful heir, an omission that caused all sorts of problems. Alas, after many mishaps and misunderstandings - true love will prevail!<br />This was a darling story. One to enjoy over and over and well worth the effort of locating a copy!	2002-09-01
1423437:US	45284807	R17D4EPAJ5DJ5R	0380812983	3080186	After the Kiss (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	WOW! So Sensual It Borders on Erotic	This is what you look for when you you imagine romance! A definite up all night kind of book! Warning - do not start at night if you must work the next day!<br />Margaret Esterly is an impoverished widow who lost her husband to a fire two years prior. The only things she has of value are three Journal's that border on the erotic.  She has traveled to London to sell one and after the sale she wanders into the garden to catch a glimpse of a masked ball.  What she encounters is a man so captivating that she finds herself wanting to play dangerously - just once - and kiss him.  If not for an interruption at that final moment she would have gotten her wish, instead she took flight!<br />Michael Hawthorne, Earl of Montraine, and master codemaster, finds himself in the garden of his friend contemplating what heiress he should seek for a wife to bolster his quickly dwindling finances.  He was just as entranced by Margaret as she of him and spent the next couple of weeks trying to find out more about the mysterious woman he had met. His brain told him he had to wed an heiress, but who was this woman who haunted his every waking moment?<br />Some weeks later Margaret contacted, the Earl's friend to sell another journal, only this time, having been tipped off by his friend that she was coming, the Earl was waiting to receive her in the study.  He bargains with her for just \\"one kiss\\".  What follows is an absolutely fascinating walk of sensual delight that the reader will cherish and want to re-read again and again.<br />This is a book not to be missed! I absolutely loved it in spite of the fact that I will pay for my lack of sleep!  Definite keeper!!!	2002-08-31
1423754:US	45284807	R1JDD7CKJBPE0O	038080591X	82269701	My True Love (Loved, Book 2)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Transcending Love	I am a fan of Karen Ranney but am giving this a 3* in lieu of a 4* rating only because I don't feel it is up to her usual standards.  The writing is, of course beautiful, and the plot begins exciting enough, but then the story seems to slow down a bit and until the last 25 pages or so, I was not enthralled.<br />Anne Sinclair, heiress of the Laird of Dunniwerth, has since the age of 8, had visions of a boy named Stephen of Langlanais.  She has had these visions all of her life. Never heard of Langlanis, does not know where it is, etc.  The visions over the years are always of Stephen as she watched the boy, grow into a man. At the age of 23, she sets out to find him, accompanied by Hannah, her friend; Ian, her childhood tormentor; and Douglas - who somehow disappears in the middle of the story.<br />Now we are in the year 1644 - a war is going on with King Charles and the Parlimentarians.  Stephen has left the war and come home to bury some of his men and take care of a wound he received in battle.  Anne and her party are being chased by the Parlimentarian soldiers and Stephen and his regiment see their flight and come to assist.<br />Now here is where I find a problem with this story. Anne recognizes Stephen immediately, calls him by name.  He does not catch on, furthermore, throughout the time she is staying at his home - Harrington Court - no one ever gets around to asking why a gently bred Lady is traveling across a war strewn country with little more than one warrior, (Douglas got lost here), and a female companion.  I kept waiting for someone to ask where she was going, or for Anne to tell Stephen that she knew him from her visions, etc.  Nothing - this really made no sense to me particularly because there was a war going on.<br />The descriptive writing is beautiful, the sexual encounter that occured was quite stimulating but I still kept waiting for the revelations to be told or for questions to be asked. It never happened until the last 25 pages or so and that is why I couldn't give this better than a 3* review.<br />Not the worst I have read, not the best, but with such an exceptional way with words, I will not discount this author and will continue to read most anything she writes.d that is why I couldn't give this better than a 3* review.  <br />Not the worst I have read, not the best, but with such an exceptional way with words, I will not discount this author and will continue to read most anything she writes.	2002-08-31
1425799:US	45284807	RMPDUUPY53FQZ	0380805901	89486572	My Beloved (The Loved)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	My Beloved - A Poignant Love Story	One thing about Karen Ranney - her storylines are always interesting.  I did not love this book but I really did like it.<br />Sebastian and Juliana were wed 12 years prior to the story - he being about 12 and she the age of 5.  The previous 5 years had seen Sebastian fighting the crusades, being imprisoned and finally ransomed out by the Knights Templar.  His ransom price was highly inflated for that time because the Knights Templar were not, as portrayed here, the good guys in this book.<br />Having been finally summoned from the convent she had lived in for the last 12 years, Juliana was pretty much terrified of having to finally assume wifely duties.  It was quite a shock to her to find that her husband would ask her to perpetuate a lie and say they were married without ever consumating the marriage bed.  Here we have the real core of the love story.  No, there was no sexual interaction between Juliana and Sebastian - but yes, you will see how a love, pure and selfless, is built on compassion, understanding and caring.  But don't despair, because when you get towards the end you will definitely be in for some very HOT and STEAMY love scenes.<br />The story was a real eye opener - mostly for the historical value and any lover of history will definitely be thrilled with it.  This was a good read, at times slow, but well worth the time.<br />I will quote from the book, one of the most amazingly beautiful passages Sebastian quoted telling of his love for Jualiana .....\\"Aristotle was once asked the definition of a friend.  He answered that it was a single soul dwelling in two bodies.  What is love? I think it is the same. Be my soul, my dearest Juliana.\\"<br />God, get out the kleenex!!!!	2002-08-29
1426639:US	45284807	R2CX7201TOP3IT	0821760416	945062916	After Midnight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Three Lovely Vampire Stories	RED MOON RISING was a delight by Carol Finch.  The dialog was witty and even humourous at times.  Seth was the vampire whose greatest wish was to find at least one gray hair on his head.  Matti aka &quot;Mishap Matti&quot; because of her propensity for accidents was darling.  Both had secrets from one another but the love story was so sweet. Very good!<br />HIGHLAND BLOOD was also very good.  Gordon Fraser was due for his 100 year 'appointment' and was expecting an expert to come and restore/repair water damage to his Gutenburg bible. He was expecting a man - E. Bruce MacDougal - the E. unfortunately for him, stood for Emily and not only was she a woman but she brought along a female companion as well.  This story was VERY VERY Good and I was most interested in the solution they came up with that broke the vampire curse!<br />A DANCE IN THE DARK - Karen Ranney's contribution was most excellent! Not your typical gorgeous heroine come to save the vampire's soul - but an heiress whose face was not attractive but her heart and soul were shown to her to be her most beautiful assets.  The intelligent dialog is what will entrance you and - I would love to find the continuation of this story!  Where oh where is it Ms. Ranney?	2002-08-28
1427709:US	45284807	R31JG9JYIMKT3A	0821758675	214341945	Heaven Forbids	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Not your most typical love story	Kathryn Siddons, was finally free of an abusive husband but her freedom was short-lived as her half brother ordered her 5 yr old son William, from their home to accompany his daughter Sarah, as her companion, to Sarah's new home in the Highlands along with her new husband the Laird of Nenverness, Hugh MacDonald.  After the abuse she had experienced at the hands of her deceased husband, it was with astonishment that a look from the new husband of her niece could set her heart on fire - a fire and a longing that she must overcome.<br />As for Hugh MacDonald, his new wife was everything a man could hope for - beauty beyond compare, a virtual goddess, a virgin who was not afraid and warmed immediately to the marriage bed.  Hugh married for political reasons, to bond the lowland Campbell clan to the Highlands - he would grow to love her he thought.  What he did not factor in the equation was the powerful pull that the Widow Siddons and her son William would have on him.  Theirs was a love that defied logic, honor and duty.  Fight as they could they seemed doomed to forever want what could never be.<br />Set amidst the highly volatile time period of political unrest in Scotland as the proud Scottish clans would gather to try to bring back the Bonnie Prince to be King of Scotland - and feel the wrath and the blood lust of the Duke of Cumberland prior to the Battle of Culloden - their love would be tested and only God and Heaven itself could say whether it would survive.<br />Again, the characters are written with passioniate feelings, beautiful dialog, and enough descriptive views for you to feel as though you are part of the unfolding drama.  Wonderfully beautiful love scenes - very sensual!  A good read, but a warning for those who might have a problem with adultery and marital infidelity - if this type of behaviour offends you, then this book is not for you.	2002-08-27
1429444:US	45284807	R1LORNX0LQXU5Z	0380795817	965764573	My Wicked Fantasy (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great Story but Slower than Her Others	On the fateful day that the Earl of Sanderhurst literally ran into Mary Kate Bennett....it was by accident - his carriage running into her conveyance. Feeling responsible, he has waited the last three days waiting for her to awaken at the inn that she was brought to.  When she awoke, it was to recognize the Earl from dreams she had while she had been unconscious.<br />Archer St. John was thought to have murdered his unhappy countess? And why can't Mary Kate seem to get these warnings in her head to stop when they keep telling her that she must save HIM...that HE is in danger. When Mary Kate enters his life so unexpectedly, the earl is convinced that she is pulling a scam with his missing wife and knows where Alice is....how else could she know of things only he and Alice would only know?  And, why can't he think of anything else besides her decadently red hair, white skin, and the feelings this beauty evokes within his masculine soul.<br />Having recovered, somewhat, Archer ends up taking her to his estate Sanderhurst, trying to get her to confess where his wife Alice is?  Mary Kate continually tries to tell him that she has never met Alice, that what she knows are images that haunt her and a voice that tells her to 'help him'.<br />This is a very good story, although it does not keep up the pace that her others do - somewhat wordy - otherwise I would have given this a 5* rating.  Archer's mother 'Bernie' is a real hoot for a dowager countess and gives some comic relief in an otherwise serious mystery/romance.  As ususal, the love scenes are exquisitely done and quite lovely!<br />Definitely worth your time - a really good read with a very different type of story!	2002-08-26
1429731:US	45284807	RI4WG8A6HEXDK	0821757504	379008416	A Promise Of Love (Lovegram Romance)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Outstanding!	This is my 3rd book by Karen Ranney and I am in awe of this woman's talent!  Her characters are so real, not fantasy, happily ever after perfect human beings especially in this story.  She doesn't pull any punches and if you are a bit squeamish, the graphic details of the horrific abuses of the heroine and others may be a bit too realistic for you.  War is brutal enough, and the atrocities that follow are brutal.  The time after the battle of Culloden was one of deprivation and hardship for the inhabitants of the Highlands.<br />The central character, Judith, is a twice widowed woman who has never seen much kindness or love in her life - not even from her own family.  She harbors her emotions like a shield that if let down would probably render a weaker person insane - but great strength and fortitude are traits which have kept her alive up to this point. The beginning story finds her returning home for sancturary, only to have her father barter her away the very next day along with 100 head of sheep to be taken to Scotland.<br />Upon arriving at the burned out castle of the widower, Scottish laird Alisdair MacLeod, the wily Scotsman Malcom, Judith's escort, with a very quick pronouncement in front of a witness had her wed her almost immediately to his Laird.  Interesting bit of Scottish lore how this was done!<br />Now you have two furious people, having never laid eyes on one another, all of a sudden married! Alisdair was none to happy and neither was Judith but as the characters are drawn out you will experience the magic of love as Alisdair and Judith find that their love and trust can help them to lay to rest their pasts and build on a new future.<br />This is a wonderful period piece, and if you are not offended by the historical atrocities of the period, you won't be sorry if you pick this up! Outstanding!	2002-08-25
1431401:US	45284807	R3CLH6NOOS0Q35	0821753770	532502686	Above All Others	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Passionately Sensual	I had to think about how to rate this book.  The writing is quite beautiful, passionately sensual and seductive, dialogs are witty and intelligent.  The story is unusual and fast paced.  Now the characters, they are very strong and complex and I think that is where the difference in the previous two reviews come, especially as one gets caught up in the story.<br />In the beginning, Freddie, the Earl of Moncrief is portrayed as what he is, arrogant, proud, stubborn, yet - rather than forgetting about his illegitimate daughter as would generally happen to the nobility - he does recognize her and takes the responsibility to have her raised on one of his estates. You have to admire him for that.<br />Katherine Sanderson, newly arrived from the country, is discovered coming to the aid of an accident victim by the Dowager Countess Miriam(Freddie's mom). Miriam recognizes the care and compassion in Katherine and hires her on the spot as governess to her infant grandaughter.<br />When Freddie, finally gets out to the estate to check on the Governess and his daughter, there is an instaneous attraction from both Katherine and Freddie.  Eventually, an accord is reached (rather businesslike) whereby Katherine agrees to sleep with Freddie for a pre-arranged length of time with the provision that she be allowed to remain Julie's governess for as long as Julie needs one.  For the next few weeks the passion is HOT and heavy and the reader gets wrapped up in the enjoyment of this couple. Katherine is more than a match for this rake in the bedroom department. Of course, it does not last - Freddie discovers a slight handicap with regard to his daughter and turns into a pompous [person] thinking that he has been deceived - Katherine gets on her high horse when she cannot reason with him and before you know it - they are avoiding each other during the day but still coming together in their passion for each other!<br />When, Katherine finds out Freddie's plans to send his daughter away, she retaliates.  It is a battle of wills - an emotional war that no one wins. Throughout the second half of the book you want to scream at Katherine for her pig-headedness and convince her of her folly! Which by the way is exactly the way the book is written - perhaps so one can learn the lessons presented here.<br />I don't want to give any more of the plot away, I strongly urge you, to use all means to find a copy of this extremely passionate, sensual, and moving book.  It is a keeper and I definitely see myself re-reading this in the future!ay, she retaliates.  It is a battle of wills - an emotional war that no one wins. Throughout the second half of the book you want to scream at Katherine for her pig-headedness and convince her of her folly! Which by the way is exactly the way the book is written - perhaps so one can learn the lessons presented here.  <br />I don't want to give any more of the plot away, I strongly urge you, to use all means to find a copy of this extremely passionate, sensual, and moving book.  It is a keeper and I definitely see myself re-reading this in the future!	2002-08-23
1432530:US	45284807	R1CYVY9ZE4WSLH	0821749021	169944173	Tapestry	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Nothing Less than a FIVE Star will do!	I'd give this 10 stars if I could - this book is sooooooo good! It is absolutely amazing that this is the author's first work! You start off with a young lady, the Lady Laura Blake, to be exact who is bound and determined to get to see the man she has loved her whole life since the age of 10.<br />Alex, the Earl of Cardiff, has come home from the war, after an absence  of four years - horribly disfigured from a terrible accident.  So disfigured that even with a mask covering most of his face, even his servants dare not look him in his one good eye.  Posing as a country bred gal, she is hired as a kitchen worker in Heddon Hall - not that she knows anything of what goes on in a kitchen - but she eventually gets to serve him his meal and little by little she worms her way into becoming his reader, while a permanent secretary is sought.  He does not recognize the hero worshipping neighbor, who was 12 years old when he left for war.  It has some humourous parts as she proves to Alex that she does not pity but loves him completely and he does come to believe it with his whole heart.<br />The betrayals and the anguish of the reality of life is what the second part of the book is all about, and this is what, in my opinion make this book so great.  The characters are written with such human feeling, they are multi-dimensional. Laura,shows the strength when her whole world seems to fall apart and disintegrate in her face, between betrayals and loss.  You best have some hankies near by to gather in both fists, because you'd have to be made of stone not to cry.<br />Fabulous book - a gem of a 'classic' and one to re-read over and over! Find a copy at all costs!	2002-08-22
1435871:US	45284807	R3D9YABBK1CRLD	0380790890	243725613	A Well Pleasured Lady: Well Pleasured #2 (Well Pleasured Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Outstanding As Usual	There are quite a few opposite opinions on the review of this book.  Myself, I loved it!<br />Lady Guinevere Mary Fairchild had disappeared from the face of the earth and had hidden herself in the Scottish highlands assuming the identity of housekeeper for the elderly Lady Valery.  As the story opens, Lady Valery's godson, Sebastion, Lord Whitfield, has come to help his godmother retrieve a missing tell-all diary.  Let me just say here, that Lady Valery  gives new meaning to the phrase of one having \\"frost on the roof but still fire in the furnace\\" - this secondary character alone rates the book a 5* review!<br />Lord Whitfield, could identify her as a murdress, as he was the only witness that saw her with dirt and blood on her dress the night she had committed murder. His request for her assistance and her devotion to Lady Valery who had been both her friend and employer these last 10 years convinced her to help them to retrieve the diary.<br />Both Mary and Sebastian had little reason to trust or even like one another. She being a Fairchild and he being a Durant.  The Fairchilds had been the cause of his family's ruin and disgrace, and Mary, was on pins and needles waiting to be turned over to the authorities and hung.  Yet, there was that attraction that both felt yet neither would admit.<br />Now, the cause of the big descrepancy here is whether Mary was forced, raped or a willing participant.  I do not believe rape was an issue here, forced to accept her own passion yes, but rape, not!  Does one swoon, and orgasm over rape - I think not.<br />The Fairchild family is a trip.  The Uncles run the gamut from the most evil to the most benign as do the cousins.  All in all a wonderful cast of supporting characters!  This was another 5* effort by Ms. Dodd.  You won't regret picking up a copy to read!	2002-08-20
1437584:US	45284807	R3176KM3F91HOR	0061040266	731139372	Candle in the Window: Castles #1 (Castles Series)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Fabulous!!! Five Stars should be Platinum	I have read just about all of Dodd's books but this story is wonderful. Lady Saura of Roget is breathtakenly beautiful, wealthy, intelligent, and living a live of servitude to the stepfather who controls her life.  All this, and she is blind as well.  She has been summoned to the castle of William of Miraval by his father Lord Peter.  This magnificent Knight, Lord William, had been struck down in battle and now was blind.<br />Who better, to lead William back from the depths of his depression than another blind person, one who could teach him how to deal with his affliction.  Saura was brought to William thinking that she was an elderly housekeeper for the castle, and the ruse kept up for quite a while as she slowly tore down the walls, William built around himself. Half way into the book, William does regain his sight, then he must do the healing, and the earning of Saura's trust as he becomes enraptured with this beautiful maiden as treachery abounds as a madman seeks to destroy both William and Saura.  Exciting, and breath stopping suspense!<br />As usual for a Dodd historical, the passion and love scenes are hot. The secondary characters are a delight right down to the faithful dog, Bula!  Fabulous story - I highly recommend this story to all and  definitely a keeper.	2002-08-18
1440321:US	45284807	R2Y0DCRIFLJGFQ	0380782804	497342240	Key to Forever (Draycott Abbey Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Love is Forever - That IS the Key	This is my 3rd and will not be my last as I have become quite a fan of Ms. Skyes stories.  Alexei Cameron of Gypsy blood, and a British Earl is an extraordinary hero in this latest novel from the very gifted Christina Skye.<br />Joanna Russell, a beautiful tour guide at the wonderous Draycott Abbey along with being an expert on ancient weaponry, had known the man five years prior, but he went under the name of Alexei Turov and he was an artist who made incredible swords.  He also made incredible love, but Joanna could not trust him nor herself then, or now.  He was a fever in her blood now as he was then and she had too many secrets that could not be shared, and much too much to lose should her secrets come out.<br />This is an exciting story, with plenty of sensual delights, mystery and secrets galore, with treachery and betrayals and non-stop excitement.  It is a story that begs to have a happy ending as you see two people so scarred and hurt that trust was a foreign word to them.<br />Key to Forever is so very hard to put down. Gypsies, palm reading, and a mystery concerning Mary Queen of Scots - what an exciting adventure!! AND let us not forget our wonderful resident ghosts, Adrian, Gray, and Gideon. A rare book that makes you feel great during and after the read. I really loved these two - Alexei and Joanna - the chemistry between them was really hot and their love scenes sizzling. An EXCELLENT read and really worth buying.	2002-08-15
1443086:US	45284807	RJIH9T6YVUEWM	0380782782	321668847	Bride of the Mist (Draycott Abbey Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Love this Recipe that Works For Skye	This is the 2nd Christina Skye novel of the Draycott Abbey series that I have read (Hour of the Rose - my first) and I really love this gal's writing and stories.  The first had an english Lord coupled with an American gifted with second sight. This book - Bride of the Mist - gives you a Scottish Lord  - cousin to the Earl of Draycott Abbey and tossed together with another American who has an even stronger psychic connection to days past at Draycott Abbey and Dunraven Castle.<br />One thing, the story does not lack though is an unstopable pace that has you racing to finish the story holding your breath with each turn of the page!  An exciting plot, with breathtaking descriptions of the castles, the abbey and the beautiful landscapes of England and Scotland. And one shouldn't forget the extremely sensual romantic and descriptive love play! Oh yes, this one is hot, hot, hot! - Could this be why I stay up half the night getting to all these juicy good parts?<br />Wonderful and exciting writing.  I love the guardian ghost, Adrian and his cat Gideon - these stories make me yearn for the British Isles to see if I can find these sexy male heroes! - Dont' breathe a word to  my husband though!<br />Definitely a keeper book and a MUST BUY for this author!	2002-08-13
1444793:US	45284807	RELR8JWE6M2L1	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stealing Heaven will Steal Your Heart	Since her very first novel, I have been mesmerized  by this author's writings - the medieval era comes to life under the pen of this extremely gifted author and her latest offering is no exception.<br />Marcus of Anglesmore was not happy to be betrothed by the king to a woman he'd never met.  In the moonlit night he climbed over the garden wall where she was staying. The woman he met there both surprised and captivated him.  He assumed she was his betrothed but alas it was only a case of mistaken identities as this enchantress was the sister of his betrothed.  Not only the sister of his betrothed, but the discarded whore of the king he'd sworn his fealty to.  Such a case of star crossed lovers you will ever come across.<br />Nesta's heart battled with her head for she could ill afford to let passion overcome the treasonous plans that she had become involved in. Plans that had been set in motion years before, and promises made to the father she had loved.  Try as they might, both knew that nothing could come of their passion for one another.  Marcus trying to do his duty to charm the sister when his heart and head could not release the images, scents, and feelings of the moonlit garden and Nesta.  Marcus warred between the lover and the knight whose duty was to his king, as Nesta warred with herself between her womanly heart and duties as her father's heir to complete his treasonous plans,<br />The imminent battles over Welsh and English territories were nothing as to the battles of will and desires between these star-crossed lovers.  Their differences seem insurmountable and the poignancy of their love, though no one spoke of love, is so sad it will bring tears to your eyes.  They hope, but they both know that they will betray one another.  Stealing what moments of passion they can only made the reality of their situation the hell it had become.  Their words of love will entrance the most jaded and sensual and very descriptive sex will keep you warm and toasty all through the night.<br />Absolutely wonderful reading - a definite keeper.all through the night. <br />Absolutely wonderful reading - a definite keeper.	2002-08-11
1447059:US	45284807	R2774X4WQ5EZQ0	0380773856	562491523	Hour of the Rose (Draycott Abbey Novels)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The Hours Will FLY when you read this!	This was an incredibly good historical/contemporary romance.  Normally, I do not like switching back and forth in a book from different time periods but this was done so seamlessly that I must applaud Ms. Skye for her effort.<br />Michael Burke, ex-Royal Marine, and undercover operative has come Draycott Abbey  to unearth an urn hidden away and containing information that people are willing to commit murder for.  Enter Kelly Hamilton, a beautiful archeologist who is gifted with an amazing ability for second sight but what is she really looking for, and what are these amazing flashes of times long past that keep threatening her sanity and make her feel as if she is part of it?  Both Michael and Kelly are caught up in more than just this dangerous intrigue - they both feel the powerful attraction which they both try to deny and this tale of deceit and betrayal is a powerful and well written tale that has you holding your breath while trying to fit all the pieces together.  I loved both the contemporary and the medieval stories told in this book.  The characters are very well fleshed out and you can feel all their pain, sorrow and complete joy as they learn to love and trust one another.<br />Glimpses of the Draycott Abbey ghosts are delightful and thoroughly enjoyable.  This was my fist novel by Christina Skye, but definitely not my last.  I look forward to	2002-08-09
1448574:US	45284807	R2JGNDHHWN4NJA	0743436806	37984483	Once Upon a Pillow	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Four Terrific Tales	This was a pretty nice quartet of stories encompassing an old manor and ruin of a castle with one common element tying it all together - the Masterson BED.  It is told from the perspective of the modern day curator, Laurel, who is quite devasted that this small museum would be closing.  So this, her last tour day, all the stories of the 800 year old 'bed' are being told.<br />It starts out with the first Masterson. A Knight from the crusades and how the bed came into being in the 1200s - Really liked this story 5*!<br />Then jumps 300 years to the mid 1500s with another rather impoverished mercenary knight who must find an heiress to pump money into the castle and surrounding town to save his soldiers and serfs - This was wonderfully romantic and exciting -  Give this 5*<br />Then another 300 years later we have the story of the Pip and Ned Masterson in the 1800's when smuggling was ripe along the coast and Pip's efforts to save her brother and thwart the man she lusts for. - This offering a 4-1/2*<br />It is finally completed with our curator, Laurel, and Max - he being the supposed handy man making the manor house ready for the mysterious 'new' owners - a good story but I can only give this 4* (honestly,I am not a contemporary story person) plus the plot was weaker than the rest.<br />All in all, this was a very enjoyable quartet of stories telling the 800 year history of 'the bed' and what went on 'once upon a pillow'.	2002-08-08
1450670:US	45284807	R3O45PMY7SANE0	0380819635	813843722	Lost in Your Arms (Governess Bride, Book 5)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Oh Yes, I'd Get Lost in HIS Arms!	What a wonderful story! Enid MacLean is living a good life, doing so very well after all her struggles.  She had been abandoned by her husband Stephen 9 years prior, and left with his debts and the shame yet she had persevered! She had learned a trade (nursing) and had been in a situation as nurse/companion for Lady Halifax.  All in all - a comfortable position,until Garrick Throckmorton issued her a summons to come and care for her long estranged and gravely ill husband Stephen.<br />Stephen MacLean lay, battered and bruised dying, and try as she might, Enid could not turn her back on him no matter how much she would like to forget he existed.  So much pain he had caused, but there was no denying those incredible green and gold eyes that opened.  How could she find herself drawn to him after he had so callously treated her?  Yet, perhaps he had changed in 9 years.  He woke, he didn't know her, let alone himself - amnesia after almost being killed?  On top of that - people were still trying to kill him.<br />What a great story! The characters are real - the emotions are real - the erupting passion is HOT! The words of passion and love are like poetry.  But lest we not forget, we are speaking of a Christina Dodd novel and the dialog will also be humourous! This has to be one of her best.  I felt Enid's pain - the betrayal of Stephen from long ago, the pain of losing a cherished friend and the pain of falling in love and not being able to guard yourself against the hurt that can come of loving the wrong person!  Very emotional, suspense, humor, adventure and loving - a GREAT read!	2002-08-06
1450995:US	45284807	R1M8BIE5WS3QLI	0380819627	424656513	In My Wildest Dreams (Governess Brides, Book 4)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sabrina Remake	I am a big fan of Christina Dodd - but Please....this story was so close to the movie Sabrina that all I could see while reading it was Harrison Ford in the guise of Garrick Throckmorton.  Okay, so you changed the family business a bit and had the extremely HOT seduction scene but please, no more movie remakes.  This was not fair to anyone especially an author who I have seen devise such other delicious plots to so brazenly adopt the Sabrina story into this book.  But hey, if you've never seen the movie Sabrina - it is a great story with all the essential pieces that make Christina Dodd a #1 read - love story, great sex, humor, and mystery.	2002-08-05
1452318:US	45284807	RRUU0MMH8IDLQ	0380811995	926249134	Rules of Attraction (Governess Brides, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I Hate to See It End	Yes, I really do as this is the end of the Governess series from Christina Dodd and I have thoruoughly enjoyed each and every one of these books.  This one however is truly outstanding, with many surprises!<br />Hannah Setterington has sold the Distinguished Academy of Governesses and has accepted her last assignment as a companion to the elderly aunt of Lord Raeburn, a mystery man with rumours that he murdered his wife.  When she comes face to face with this mystery man, the Earl of Raeburn, she is faced with the man, Dougald Pippard, a devious man from her very private, and closely guarded past - and what a secret! I am constantly amazed at the mind of this author that can come up with these amazingly different plots that will keep you up all night to find out the end!  This story is really a reality situation in which two people faced real life problems and finally come to terms with themselves.<br />The secondary characters, are darling - not only does Hannah find herself companion to the Earl's Aunt but also the Aunt's assortment of stray elderly ladies that are are outspoken and thoroughly outrageous!<br />The passionate and sensual love scenes will ignite you and have you panting for more.  The Earl of Raeburn is the kind of passionate and innovative lover one has always yearned for...super technique! Definitely a 5* book....Read and you will not be disappointed.	2002-08-04
1453501:US	45284807	RGKPWMSFANXAL	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Engaging!	The second in the Governess series is extremely engaging. When you begin this book, you will absolutely despise this rake and the Earl of Kerrich. He is self serving, totally CONCEITED, and quite heartless. His demands for a governess are enough to set your teeth on edge especially when you find out for whom the governess will have for a pupil.<br />Out of hand, they would like to tell him where to take his businss but Pamela Lockhart, overhearing his fees, and having just been robbed on her way home and losing their months payments knows that without the exorbitant fees he would pay, they would be ruined.  In an old spinster disguise, the very beautiful, and extremely correct Pamela sets out to find him an orphan, and gain him the respectability Queen Victoria is demanding of him.<br />In spite of her obnoxious disguise, Devon, Earl of Kerrich, finds there is something about this governess that attracts him! Funny, funny dialog and situations.  Again, you will find yourself laughing at the dialog deftly put to good use by this author.  There is also the mystery of who is leading  counterfiting scheme against the Earl's bank.  All and all a very engaging read!  Definitely a must read for all of the Dodd fans and beyond!	2002-08-03
1454978:US	45284807	R224HKS65EMWS7	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Surrender your heart	This first of the Governess series is a romp thru Regency England with a touch of the Middle East and a glimpse backwards at some friends from previous novels.  Lord Wynter Ruskin has finally come home with his two children and his mother, Lady Adorna Ruskin has hired Lady Charlotte Dalrumple to tutor her granchildren into proper English decorum.  What Lady Adorna does not tell Lady Charlotte is that she has one other pupil she is to tutor in proper English manners - lord Wynter.  Lord Wynter, who having lived with the Bedouins in the desert has picked up some very strange habits!<br />The dialog is witty, and so humourous, you will find yourself with quite a few belly laughs and the addition of the children who in their innocence 'do say the darndest things' - well suffice it to say, that Ms. Dodd never fails to satisfy in the dialog department.<br />Definitely a refreshing and enjoyable read.  I look forward to the next two novels in this trilogy.	2002-08-02
1455858:US	45284807	R7Z2I8CY4F0QD	0380802929	22185791	The Runaway Princess: Princess #1 (The Princess Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun Fairytale Read	She had come into a small inheritance and before settling down to become the proprietress of a small bookstore she wanted to have one great adventure. Evangeline Scoffield of East Little Teignmouth, Cornwall, is having fun posing as the refined lady she had always longed to be. Adventure not withstanding, Prince Danior of Baminia appears and announces that he is her fianc&eacute;. He insists that she is the Princess Ethelinda and that they must return immediately to her kingdom where they are to be married. Evangeline's protests are cut short when someone lobs a bomb into her room and Danior pulls her into the adventure of her life for the next three days - before - he says -  they are to be married. Of course, he has yet to be REALLY introduced to Miss  Evangline Scoffield - and she is not exactly who he thinks she is!<br />That is the premise of this lovely fairytale come true story.  It is both exciting and fun and written in the very tongue in cheek style of the wonderful wordsmith Christina Dodd.  Fun read with just the right amount of sensual tension and romanticism that one comes to expect from Ms. Dodd.	2002-08-01
1456778:US	45284807	RKCHWTRU58N9W	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Scandalously Entertaining	One by one I am reading all of Christina Dodd's novels to date and I haven't been disappointed yet!  Another good story - well written, aptly paced, humourous and decidedly hot amourous adventures!<br />Ten years prior to the story's setting the very talented and innocent Miss Jane Higgenbothem's secret crush on the devastatingly handsome Lord Blackburn was spitefully exposed to the ton.  He was outraged, she was mortified and left London.<br />Now, as the chaperone to her beautiful niece she is back, hoping to stay undiscovered in the background, but that would not be so.  She comes face to face with Lord Blackburn and he is surprised to see that she has changed, and he decides that she would be a good cover for him to use as he leads the ton to believe he was re-entering society rather than spying for the home office.<br />As any good regency, romance novel goes - the inevitable attraction is born and no surprises, other than the deft use of this wonderful wordsmith in letting you become a fly on the wall to the delightful dialog and entertaining battle of the sexes.  Great story and just enough suspense in figuring out the spy gamesters - super use of the beautiful but shrewdly dumb niece Adorna. You will also get a kick out of some of the other minor characters as well.  Great summer read!	2002-07-31
1457484:US	45284807	R1H4NP4YEX0ZFK	0380790904	143931696	A Well Favored Gentleman	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Outstanding Magical Story	For those of you who like a little fantasy and magic thrown in with some VERY hot and sensually stimulating love scenes - then look no further - this has to be the one.<br />He is Ian Fairchild, darkly handsome and tortured with secrets he does not want revealed. Ian is summoned home to Fionnaway by his dying father that despises him. He is led to believe that once his father dies Fionnaway would be his - just one of the many lies his father Leslie Fairchild (truly a despicable waste of human flesh)tells him.<br />She is Lady Alanna - the beautiful and mysterious mistriss of Fionnaway who disappeared 4 years prior and waits to come back to reclaim her heritage. Ian desperately wants Fionnaway as well and will use whatever tricks he has to to gain the home that he has never had his entire life.<br />There is a lot of intrigue, magic, and legends that the story evolves around - it is simply wonderful and you will no doubt not be able put it down once you have started it.  I absolutely sobbed BIG tears at the end... Loved it and will definitely read it over again.  This had some of the most exquisitely beautiful love scenes - with WORDS - that I have not seen in some time. A rare treat for the hopeless romantic - I was well and truly touched!	2002-07-30
1458889:US	45284807	ROUHYADKV0K72	006109899X	12162872	Once a Knight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Different approach - Good Read!	This was a pretty decent story in that both of the main antagonists were not the usual perfect people.  Sir David of Radcliffe, legendary knight and once the King's champion had been beaten.  Not your typical hero - yet having her life threatened, Lady ALisoun hires him to protect her castle and herself - gambling that the legend alone would form a barrier of  protection around her. Rusty and out of shape, David is broke and sees a way to provide for his properties and especially his motherless daughter.  Neither one is real happy with the other but - they will make do.<br />Lady Alisoun is reported to be the oldest living virgin widow in the kingdom. - If I had any complaints about the storyline here this would be one of them as it never does fully explain how this fact occurred! She is the very proper 'cold fish' chatelaine of a very wealthy demense of which she manages very efficiently. The one thing she was taught from birth was how to manage and provide for the people under her. What was missed in her training and her life, was the ability to really enjoy, laugh, and to love someone.  This was a challenge that Sir David felt he could handle!<br />The inclusion of the minor characters, especially the younger children, give the story so much more feeling and charm.  It is through their eyes and conversations that the older folks seem to realize and learn.  It is also through them that you get most of the humour, although Sir David initiating Lady Alisoun to the finer points of making love is a comedic effort in itself.<br />I think if one wants to give this a one word review, I would say - CHARMING! I really enjoyed this.	2002-07-29
1461994:US	45284807	RDW40WXHZTGH3	0061080349	311415125	Castles in the Air	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Edge of Your Seat Reading	This was such a good story with so many conspiracies it will keep you on the edge of your seat and turning pages with a passion! Raymond, Count of Avrache, confidant to the King and cousin to the Queen of England - was commanded by the King to wed lady Juliana of Lofts - only the bride doesn't show! This not only causes Raymond embarrasment - but it also made him quite angry.  Who was this Lady Juliana to defy a King!<br />She should have known that sooner or later Raymond would come for her, but she mistakenly thinks he is the King's master castle builder come to build her another wall. Posing as a castle builder - Raymond who really has no idea at all about building anything (you will find some humour here) decides that it is a good way to find out what motivates this Lady Juliana and why she has such a distrust of men!<br />This is an amazing story with so many plots, twists and turns, yet it still keeps itself very much a medieval romance.  The personalities and characters are all complex and it is such a page turner trying to find out all the secrets that are the so central to the telling of this story.  So many times, I found myself holding my breath.<br />I truly enjoyed Raymond and Juliana - both with so much emotional turmoil scarring both of them that it was so  gratifying to see them tear down one another's emotional walls and begin to heal each other's souls.  Truly a wonderful story.	2002-07-26
1468376:US	45284807	R3VQRHJZNF5IXE	0061040622	178146461	Treasure of the Sun	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent Old West	This was a great story as well as a very interesting background into the early days of California prior to the annexation by the United States.<br />Katherine Maxwell traveled to California from Boston to be wed to Tobias a man she dealt well with and offered her a chance to escape from family bondage.  Fate had it that her marriage would be short lived and, one week after the wedding, Tobias was murdered.  His best friend Damian de la Sola would make sure that Katherine would be looked after, and he brought her to his hacienda and let her mourn there.<br />Damian did this, not only for his very best friend, but for himself, as he had known from the moment he first saw her coming off the ship that he would burn for his best friends wife.  Being the gentleman, he would have to hide his true feelings, and he would honor her year of mourning.  He was honor-bound to protect her but would be relentless in her pursuit before he would let her leave.<br />Finding out that it was the secret of a fabled treasure that Tobias had been killed for, the 'treasure of the Padres' They would both follow their destinies and find that the real treasure was their love for one another.<br />I enjoyed the characters and their personalities.  Katherine, though reeling from having her husband murdered in front of her, was really quite feisty when she wasn't fainting at the sight of blood.  Damian was the very hot, arrogant, and very sexy Spanish lover.  The scene between her cousin, and the two of them after they married is priceless! Super story.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-07-21
1468660:US	45284807	R2N361WX2Z9100	0804119635	54236358	Black Lion's Bride	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Read BUT ....	This was another great book by Tina St. John.  I loved Sebastian from the White Lion book and wanted so much to see him find the love of his life, which he does, only I don't think I would have been so forgiving.  <br />I had a major problem with Zahirah, the female assassin and Sebastian's love.  There were just too many things she did that I personally could not and would not be able to overlook - but perhaps that is just 'my problem'.  Otherwise, this is an exciting story, very fast read with no dull moments in between.<br />The sex was hot and luscious. I loved seeing the references and contact with 'Blackheart' who is the hero from Lady of Valor.  Really a super well-written story that I have come to expect from St. John now that I have read all her books.  I look forward to her next offerings.	2002-07-20
1469077:US	45284807	R23QV3RJADFETC	0804119635	54236358	Black Lion's Bride	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great Read BUT ....	This was another great book by Tina St. John.  I loved Sebastian from the White Lion book and wanted so much to see him find the love of his life, which he does, only I don't think I would have been so forgiving.<br />I had a major problem with Zahirah, the female assassin and Sebastian's love.  There were just too many things she did that I personally could not and would not be able to overlook - but perhaps that is just 'my problem'.  Otherwise, this is an exciting story, very fast read with no dull moments in between.<br />The sex was hot and luscious. I loved seeing the references and contact with 'Blackheart' who is the hero from Lord of Vengeance.  Really a super well-written story that I have come to expect from St. John now that I have read all her books.  I look forward to her next offerings.	2002-07-20
1471661:US	45284807	RQZUTQTSINFA1	0804119627	735248658	White Lion's Lady	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fast and Exhilirating Read	From the very first page you will be hooked into reading - and possibly staying up all night to get to the last! Ms. St. John just keeps getting better.<br />Isabel the young girl chasing a butterfly, gets lost in the woods and is about to be gored by a wild boar when out of those same woods, steps the young gallant Griffin of Droghollow.  He slays the boar and young Isabel is captivated by the young hero who has saved her life.  But then of course, we all grow up and life's circumstances can change most anyone.<br />Isabel has spent the last 10 years in a convent and is now on her way to her betrothed, the Earl of Montborne, to be married by order of the King Richard. Griffin has his assignment - kidnap the bride and bring her to his step-brother Baron Dominic of Draghollow - cohort of Prince John.<br />Neither Griffin nor Isabel recognize one another. Isabel still has in her mind the remembrance of her young hero Griffin and has never removed the medallion he lost that long ago day in the woods.  Griffin is enchanted by the very lovely bride - not knowing who she is.  She, against her better judgement, is drawn to her captor.  Not until she is brought to the gate of Droghollow, does Isabel realize who her captor is.  Will she ever be able to forgive Griffin for this betrayal and will he be able to ever forget his deeds and find himself worthy of her love.<br />The writing is superb, the story exciting and the sexual tension is terrific! It is a story worthy of the highest rating possible. Bravo to this new author	2002-07-18
1472634:US	45284807	R3U4M6878POZI6	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Outstanding - Nothing Less than 5*  Will Do	This book can definitely stand alone, but if you have read some of her previous novels - and shame on you if you haven't - you are reintroduced to Maximillian de Rohan, bow street runner, who has now been promoted to the home office, along with some of the other very colorful characters from previous stories.<br />While shadowing some nefarious people in the act of questionable activities, Max keeps running into this very beautiful early morning rider, whose habit of riding seems always to be intefering with his job.  He would rather not run into her every morning but is intrigued.<br />The widow Lady Catherine Wodeway, has decided that her mourning period is over and has been consdering a lover but definitely, she is not going to fall in love.<br />Both of these arrogant, independent people just keep running into one another, (literally) and the sparks they do fly! Again, in this Carlyle novel - you have the very humourous and witty dialog, between Catherine and Max and some very HOT sexual encounters!  - Oh, and did I neglect to add that sandwiched in between - you are going to meet an interfering - not to be trifled with Italian grandmama looking for some grandbabies?  Funny as well as an exciting mystery! Great reading - a real keeper!	2002-07-17
1473736:US	45284807	R3LHF743LY5PT	0449004244	298689720	Lady of Valor	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Outstanding - Nothing Less than 5*  Will Do	I HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone who would like to read a fabulous book! From the first page, you are hooked as you are introduced to Sir Cabal, the feared knight known as Blackheart, standing over the dead body of Garrett of Fallonmour.  Cabal was a warrior and the last thing he wanted was to be sent to Fallonmour to guard the holding for King Richard.  But, King Richard knew that Sir Cabal was the one knight he could trust wholeheartedly.<br />Lady Emmalyn of Fallonmour was not looking forward to the return of her husband, yet she never wished him dead - just never coming back.  It was difficult to trust this dark and forbidding knight who was sent to guard the keep, but something drew her to him.<br />This has all the elements that make a medieval wonderful, action, to die for handsome knight with secrets, lush and fabulous romantic interludes!  Great read - highly recommend!	2002-07-16
1475188:US	45284807	R1PIEOUFWSHSQM	0449004252	199331886	Lord of Vengeance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Extremely Good Medieval	This was an extremely good medieval tale of two people who must overcome each of their own struggles.  Gunnar Rutledge's life so far was spent in waiting for the day he could seek the vengeance he deemed was his over the man who nearly took his life and family from him.<br />Raina d'Bussy, his enemies daughter, could not believe her father capable of the horrors Gunnar blamed him for.  Captured and held hostage in an effort to force her father to meet him on the field of battle, Gunnar would become the hostage, the hostage of his heart and the love he felt for his captive.  Raina would have to question just where her loyalties would lie when faced with the unbearable truths of her heritage.<br />This is a wonderfully rich tale told amidst the very brutal and bloody days of the early 1100's of England.  Rich in history and adventure.  Super exciting read for this authors maiden novel.	2002-07-15
1475325:US	45284807	R1A80CLC4IKU3T	0380818337	129001494	The Lady Is Tempted (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	This Lady is Satisfied	Yes, this lady is VERY satisfied with this newest offering from Cathy Maxwell.<br />There had to be something better in life than being forced into marrying another man whom she didn't love.  Deborah  Percival had done that once already, for the sake of her step-mother and half-sisters. In order to save them all she had been married to a man 37 years her senior and now her life was being planned again to marry her off to Parson Ames and step-mother his six horrendous children.  Not again!  She would be off to London to help out her other sister.<br />Along the way, providence stepped in in the form of washed out bridge forcing her to take a room for the night.  The other boarder in the house was the newly betrothed, Earl of Burnell, Anthony Aldercy.  He was everything she dreamed of and before the night was over the most electrifying attraction between the two of them would result in the most tempting offer Deborah would ever receive.  Would she accept...well of course, how else could we have this wonderful regency romance!<br />One thing, you can always expect from Cathy Maxwell is a deeply satisfying romance and that is exactly what you get from the Lady is Tempted.  While I usually expect more humor from Ms. Maxwell - the lack of it was more than made up for  in the deeply satisfying love scenes.  Great writing one always expects from Ms. Maxwell.	2002-07-15
1476462:US	45284807	R3IG31I1X8AEF4	0425184692	235273732	The Seduction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This Book Seduced Me	Having read her earlier novel - which I loved - I eagerly anticipated this latest novel and certainly have not been disappointed.  The opening prologue did not endear me to the hero, Viscount Gracechurch, a rake and a gambler, who would be in total ruin if he did not win at least one final wager - bed the widow Mistriss Juliet Seton at designated place within five days and procure a locket she wore around her throat that she was never without.  A nasty piece of work or positive ruin!<br />I am amazed at the reviewers who had trouble getting through this book as I found that once started,  I couldn't put it down! Not only was I enthralled with the complex depth of characters and scintillating dialog, but I couldn't wait to find out what Mistriss Julia Seton's secret was.  I was virtually on pins and needles wanting to know her secrets - why such a distrust and fear for males!  For that matter, what were the motives behind the seemingly innocent wager put to Viscount Gracechurch by the devious Lord Edward?<br />Not only was `the seduction' so beautifully worded and enacted but there was so much more!  Betrayal, treachery, romance, seduction and some very dark and deep secrets to discover. Might I ask what more could you ask for?  Bravo Ms. Ross - this offering is a sure fire winner!  Outstanding, I highly recommend this novel.	2002-07-14
1476813:US	45284807	R3671N6G8JOV3C	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Slow Start - Fast Finish	I must disagree with the last few reviews on this book.  It definitely holds your interest! Yes, I am a Lisa Kleypas fan but if it were not up to her usual standards of excellence, I would rate it lower.  BUT - this is another fine example of the talented wordsmith.<br />Lady Sophia approached Sir Ross Cannon, the Monk of Bow Street, prepared to destroy him and all he held dear.  She blamed him for her brothers death and her intentions were to ruin him both professionally and personally.<br />It wasn't long until she discovered for herself that the rumours were not who the man really was.  She found to her dismay that it was most difficult to hate and despise a man whom she had unwittingly become attracted to and was essentially fair and good.<br />Lord Ross, thought never to fall in love again, but the very cool and intelligent Lady who talked him into hiring her as his Bow Street assistant, was someone who made him feel more than human again.  Who made him want to live for something other than work.<br />The sensual love scenes and hot sizzling sex are just some of the reasons this book is so good.  The character development is extremely good and the secondary characters added much to the depth of this story.  Great work!  I highly enjoyed this and definitely would recommend it.	2002-07-13
1477710:US	45284807	R1897GB77J76KT	0373289715	35756197	Tempting Kate	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Lord of Wroth would Tempt Me!	Kate Courtland was attempting to get some satisfaction from the man thought responsible for impregnating and abandoning her sister - only to find out that she had accidentally shot the wrong man!  In an attempt to right her error she then abducted him from his London townhouse so that she could tend his wound at her impoverished country estate.<br />The lovely Kate in tending after the Marquis saw more of him than she should have - indeed MUCH more than she should have and felt the loss of some of her strong defenses against an attraction that she knows would come of naught.  But then, the very able, strong and self-controlled Marquis of Wroth strong defenses seemed to be shattered as well from this violet eyed hoyden! Wonderfully sensual reading!<br />Definitely a page turner and quite tempting is this novel from the adept writing skills of Ms. Simmons - Find it, read it and thoroughly enjoy this romp!	2002-07-12
1479098:US	45284807	R3BCTYUFDCOTZC	0373291841	969942380	My Lady De Burgh	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Marriage is a Curse?	Well, according to Robin, the next de Burgh brother who is still a bachelor, this is what he thinks - or at least that a curse has been laid upon the de Burgh family.  Robin de Burgh is contemplating why this happy family of bachelors is succumbing to that marriagable state - and being led by the nose by these wives! Well not him, and he is going to find someone to get rid of the curse!  His quest leads him to a convent, and don't you think that the first female he meets, he knows - this is the ONE!<br />This is a delightful tale, very humourous dialog and a bit of a mystery to solve.  It's great to see Robin the young man, with some childlike notions - finally come into his own and grow up to be a real man!<br />Again, this novel stands on it's own - but is terrific when read along with the series.	2002-07-11
1479987:US	45284807	R253X93JWJYKL2	0373291337	791035978	My Lord De Burgh (Historical)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	My LORD de Burgh DELIVERS	Although this is the fourth story in the de Burgh series, it can stand on it's own although your enjoyment and involvement with this family is enhanced immeasureably if you start from the first and read them in thier order.<br />Stephen de Burgh was a real rogue, the handsomest of all the brothers, who used his looks and charm to bed multitudes of women.  He lived in a wine induced fog most of the time with no real goals in life - something of a medeival alcoholic.  It was in such a state that his father requested that Stephen be the one to escort and deliver Mistriss Brighid L'Estrange to her home.  She had been summoned home by her father but before she could arrange to go to him she learned of his death. She had to get there to find out what really happened to him and solve the mystery of why he had summoned her so desperately after so many years away.<br /><br />Escorting the strong willed Brighid across the wild land of Wales strained Stephen's temper to the limits.  He who had never had such responsibilities, nor ever having to take a leadership position - always relying on someone else to make the decisions so he could sit back and enjoy the view.  Not only that but this cantankerous bossy woman was somehow getting under his skin, why he couldn't even enjoy a female conquest along the way because she was invading his very thoughts on a continuous basis.<br />This story, as all of Ms. Simmons, delves deep into character studies and affords us a glimpse into a persons awakening and growth.  It was such a joy to see Stephen finally coming into his own and living up to his de Burgh heritage. A masterful story and one I highly recommend.  Fabulous as usual, with just the right amount of humor and sensuality to leave you dreaming of finding such a love.	2002-07-10
1482361:US	45284807	R1HLJ0O8M2ONT2	0373290551	132076574	Robber Bride	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Love these de Burgh Men	This is the 3rd in the series of the deBurgh brothers and although, Geoffrey may always be my favorite (next to his father of course) the tale of the rough, gruff and total warrior Simon being felled at last by his Maiden - Warrior - Lover was a delight to read from the first to the very last page.  Not only was it a delight to see Simon brought to his knees but it was probably the most humourous of this series so far.  Okay, Ms. Simmons - I am definitely hooked - bring on the rest.  Outstanding story - deserves all of these 5 staars and more!	2002-07-09
1484005:US	45284807	R2J4RWYCIF4WBK	0373289995	661237403	De Burgh Bride	Books	5	13	14	N	N	What a HERO!	I read this in a day, could not put it down - I think I said this about some of Ms. Simmons other books too!<br />Geoffrey de Burgh, from the earlier novel in the series, was my favorite brother and my heart went out to him when he was the one chosen to be the de Burgh to marry the FITZHUGH!<br />The rumours of Elene FitzHugh were rife with what a hellion she was - murdress of her husband on their wedding night, etc. so upon meeting her the brothers deBurgh were not disappointed.  She was most foul in appearance, manner and mouth!  But Geoffrey, following the edict from the king and the request of his father, would wed her and somehow - live through the night?<br />This was not your run of the mill historical romance with the hero and the heroine quickly falling in love...this was gut wrenching and painful for no matter how hard Geoffrey (God you have to love him) tried you thought he would never pull down the barriers that Elene had put up around her.  She would trust no man - never!  I was even beginning to doubt that there would any kind of compromise here. I think that is why the tears were brought to my eyes with the outcome.<br />This was a MOST enjoyable and poignant love story! Definitely a must read for the Deborah Simmons fan!	2002-07-07
1485423:US	45284807	R365Y2TQSKJ4LY	0373289170	639982199	The Devil Earl	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Charming Read	This was a very fast read for me - mainly because I couldn't put it down!<br />Upon her first glimpse of the Earl of Ravenscar, he was  certainly living up to his namesake, namely the Devil Earl. He came rushing into the Abbey, in a black coach on a dark and stormy night.  And, so Prudence Lancaster, the gothic author, was gaining more fodder for her novels.  She had lived in Cornwall all her life and had never seen the 'Devil Earl' - only heard the stories, and though he was very dark and mysterious, he was also the handsomest man she had ever seen.<br />At five and twenty, Prudence was consigned to living in the world of her imagination - the world she created in the novels she wrote - But, since she met the Devil Earl - her imagination would never be so exciting and passionate as the situations she would be in with him.<br />Very passionate,sensual and romantic trysts.  A most exciting read and well worth finding a copy of this book. Great!	2002-07-06
1487008:US	45284807	R12DVWHWE6ALPG	0373289324	248271671	Maiden Bride	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Married for Revenge	Nicholas de Laci lived for revenge. His hatred against Lord Hexham was all consuming, it was what fed him.  When it was taken from him by his brother-in-law, he was furious.  His hatred was so great that when he found out from the king that the niece of Lord Hexham was alive and living in a convent and if he married her, he would by way of marriage, inherit the demense that was Hexham, he was more than willing.  He would wed the niece and exact his revenge upon her for the sins of her uncle.  He would make her pay - he would make her a slave.<br />Gillian Hexham was an innocent.  She never even knew her uncle, had never even laid eyes upon him, but she knew hatred when she saw it and the eyes of Nicholas de Laci were hard as ice and bore right into her soul. She would be torn from the relative safety of the convent and forced to marry this handsome knight who hated her because of her 'tainted' blood.<br />Nicholas' passion for hate was overcome by the passionate resistance of Gillian who fought his proposed enslavement.  They would end up enslaved by one another.<br />This was a marvelous story to see the healing powers of love and family, with the characters wonderfully drawn out making it hard to put down. The sexually provocative love scenes will take your breath away.  A wonderful sequel to the Devil's Lady. Do try to find a copy - you will not be disappointed.	2002-07-05
1487204:US	45284807	R6A88OS49GKJK	0373288840	244071393	Taming The Wolf	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Who Tamed Who Here?	This is the first book of the de Burgh family and my God I can't wait to get to the others if this one is indicative of what is coming.  WOW!<br />This is the story of the eldest son Dunstan deBurgh and Marion Warenne.  It starts out with Marion being rescued by Simon de Burgh and brought to Castle Campion (home to the de Burgh clan)where she stays for the next 6 months before even meeting Dunstan - the eldest de Burgh son.  Marion has sustained amnesia and after months of of trying to find out who Marion is the  discovery is made and she is to be returned to her Uncle. After putting it to a vote of the 6 de Burgh brothers, Dunstan was elected to return her to her Uncle.<br />Dunstan had his own property to care for and was very much aginst having to take the time to return this 'piece of baggage' back to her uncle.  Marion still did not remember her past but knew, without a doubt, that if she was returned she would be killed.  Consequently the trip to return her was one escape attempt after another as she tried to run away from Dunstan.<br />Dunstan had his own problems, honor bound to do complete this mission his father gave him, and trying to tell himself that he was not feeling any kind of attraction to this 'little brown wren'.  Stubborn to a fault, he did NOT believe in love and this was something that did not happen to real people.<br />What a delightful trip! Naturally, these two get to spend some time together  - alone - and what a reckoning this becomes! WOW - Dunstan is one lusty kind of knight and the passion is returned from this 'little brown wren' !  Definitely a page turner and one you must try to get your hands on because you will want to read this one over and over again! The best!	2002-07-04
1487995:US	45284807	R3OL2TUZYNUKX5	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Lady Whistledown - REVEALED	I waited forever for this book because I've read all of the others in this series and have been dying to know who Lady Whistledown truly was.  You will find out if you read this book, but not from me!<br />Penelope Featherington has been in love with Colin Bridgerton since she was 16 and now she is heading towards spinsterhood at eight and twenty.  Colin has been abroad and has come home from his latest jaunt.  In that time, Penelope still loves Colin but has little hope that he will ever notice her as anything other than his sister Eloises' best friend.<br />Lady Whistledown can't seem to write columns without mentioning the very available and nice Colin Bridgerton - evidently nothing has changed since he left - or has it.  The girl who was like a part of his family, now haunts his dreams.  Could this be love?<br />This is one of Julia Quinn's classic love stories with her trademark humourous dialog.  A charming story, and the mystery of Lady Whistledown, finally revealed!  I never guessed it!	2002-07-04
1488370:US	45284807	R37TLEHJAZQIF4	0373288417	608550328	The Devil's Lady	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Fabulous!	Aisley de Laci proud and beautiful, was ordered by King Edward to pick herself a husband from any of his Knights of the realm - but marry she would! So in what she thought would be a foil to the King's plans she choose the legendary Red Knight!  The tales of his darkness were the tales to strike terror in the hearts of any who would go up against him.  Much to her surprise, the King rather than refuse her request granted it to her - so she was hastily bundled off and sent on her way to Dunmurrow - lair of the Red Knight.<br />Piers, the Red Knight, rather than directly refuse the King's edict took her to be his bride.  That was Aisley's first surprise, the second was that all this was done without her seeing her husband's face. Her Red Knight lived in the darkness of this cold and dark castle.  How long would it take for Aisley to discover the secret of her Red Knight?<br />This is a book that will keep you up all night long because you are going to be kept in such suspense  that it will drive you crazy!  Aisley, in spite of her resolve to get out this marriage, is bewitched by the Red Knight - perhaps as all the rumors say - he is immortal, and practices black arts.  Who could tell - not I - you are just going to have to stay up all night like I did to find out.  Find this book - fabulous read.	2002-07-03
1490036:US	45284807	RAXIXLG4E3RNE	0373287852	457686053	Silent Heart	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Very good	The French Revolution was a black time for the people of France, both the nobility and the common man, when no one was really safe and anyone could call and renounce a neighbor.<br />Fleeing from the mobs who would burn her alive if caught, Dominique Morineau and her maid Therese had fled to Paris to blend in with the multitudes and disappear.  Assuming a new name, Gabrielle was not prepared to meet her destiny, the mute stable hand Alexandre, whose green eyes bore into her very soul.  She could not stop the attraction, nor could she trust him with her secrets.  He could not trust her with his secrets, but both of them burned for one another.<br />Fabulously tense and exciting love story.  Great read - worth the effort to find a copy.  Highly recommend.	2002-07-02
1491701:US	45284807	R2VXMJIMUC23D4	0373291876	382726080	The Prisoner Bride (Brides)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Believe in Magic AND Susan Spencer Paul	This is the sixth of her Bride series and while all are simply wonderful, I think this may be my favorite.<br />The Mistress Glenys Seymour is far from being your typical gorgeous heroine and yet Kiernan FitzAllen is your untypical drop dead gorgeous hero with just enough rogue in him to make him to die for.  This is why Glenys does not fall for his charms, even though he the abductor and she the abductee seem to get along so well!  Glenys just does not accept that he, who could have any number of beautiful damsels,  could care for her.<br />The secondary characters - Glenys' extended family of aunts and uncles who dabble in what could be called  - a little bit of magic - lend just enough humor to give you a good chuckle here and there.<br />This was a wonderful romantic story and although the sixth in the series, I can see so much more happening with the descendants of these two.  Great reading. I highly recommend this book.	2002-07-01
1493592:US	45284807	R2QO2UZOORS0X	0373291353	742008299	The Stolen Bride (Brides)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	They Will Steal Your Heart	I don't know how she continually does this but Ms. Paul will steal your heart with \\"The Stolen Bride\\"<br />Our hero, Kayne the Unknown, ashe was known to the people in the Village of Wirth, is the type of hero one generally falls in love with - handsome, manly, and mysterious.  It is no wonder that Sofia Ahlgren dreamt of him as her hero to save her from the evil clutches of the man who would be betrothed to her.<br />Kayne was gentle, kind and tortured. Ms. Paul heaps upon this hero all the elements to keep you interested from the first to the last pages.  What is the mystery of this village smithy (?) who keeps to himself and appears so wealthy?  Read and discover the layers that one uncovers to discover the soul of this wonderful hero!  Highly recommend you find a copy of this ... book.  Wonderfully exciting, hold your breath, ending!	2002-06-29
1496277:US	45284807	ROLOZXR6L7MNG	0373290713	168659762	Captive Bride	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good story in this Saga of Brides	This is another good story that follows the Bride series that Susan Paul Spencer has written of.  The hero Lord Senet Gailard has been off fighting and proving himself as an honorable knight after the shame that he had borne because of his father being condemed as a traitor (unfortunately, it was never proven in either this novel or in the Bride Thief, where Senet was first introduced.  After proving himself loyal after 10 years of fighting, he is given a boon, the chance to reclaim his family estate, provided he wed Lady Katherine who now rules over Castle Lomas.<br />Senet arrives at Lomas with his band of knights, and Katharine pretends to accept her fate--until night falls and she flees. Senet of course,finds her and forces Katharine to return. Senet proves to be a fair Lord and they both discover their mutual attraction, but of course never mentioning to each other that it exists.<br />The secondary characters, provide good background and the story flows quickly.  The introduction of Katherine's cousin Kiernan who she had posing as her long lost betrothed, does give some very good humorous dialog.  The story is good but did end awfully quickly.  Deadlines perhaps, otherwise would have rated a 5*.	2002-06-27
1497505:US	45284807	R1AZ98RETV325M	037329008X	4957725	Beguiled	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fabulous	Who am I to give this less than a 5* review.  This was an absolutely wonderful book with such a different heroine at the center of romance.  Radiantly beautiful but flawed, due to the act of a demented servant that tried to kill her when she was a child.<br />Lillian wanted a London season, and her brother Earl of Cardemore would do anything in his power to provide her that season in London, even if it meant blackmailing the handsomest bachelor in London.  The Earl of Cardemore wanted Lily to be happy, and would do whatever he needed to make that happen.  Her brother could make the gallant earl of Graydon, dance attendance  on his sister, and he could even engineer the means to have them wed.  What he couldn't prevent would be the devasted heartbreak if the truth be known.<br />This was a wonderful story of love against all odds.  It showed that love has no boundaries and handicaps be dammed against the snobbish and uneducated feelings at the turn of the 18th century.<br />Definitely a superb book.  I heartily recommend it!	2002-06-26
1499091:US	45284807	R1QXH2JJZVCVIT	0440224934	126521651	Devil's Wager	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This One is a SURE Bet!	Having  formed an attachment to all these friends from the Wager series by Susan Paul, I was very pleased with this, the last of the trilogy.  This was the story of Lad Walker, the Earl of Kerlain and his wife, Diana.   From the previous two novels, you never knew he had a wife until the end of Lady's Wager.  Here in this book you have  the background of Lad and are able to figure out the mystery that surrounded him from the first two books.  Although, let me say, you can read this out of sequence as it can definitely stand alone on its own merits. <br />Lad,  was finally, and belatedly, recognized by his grandfather as the heir to Kerlain with the conditions that should he come to Kerlain he would inherit the land, wed the Goddaughter of the late Earl of Kerlain who would inherit the castle.  Luckily, it was love at first sight for Lad, and Diana and though the castle was pretty near falling down around their ears, their love would have managed to see them through most anything.  That is, most anything but for the evil scheming of the neighboring estate owner, the Viscount Carden. <br />The Viscount was a childhood `friend' of Diana's only because he was the only one of her class around to socialize with, and though she grew up with him she recognized that he possessed a  cruel streak that he hid under the guise of a charming demeanor.  She had promised her Godfather that she would never marry him. <br />Being an American, and the war of 1812, still fresh in the minds of the English people, Lad was not welcomed at Kerlain, except by Viscount Carden who waited for the opportunity to create havoc in order to make Diana his.   Lad was too trustworthy of his only friend at the time and paid the ultimate price.  <br />This was a wonderful story, and tied up so many loose ends from the previous two books of the trilogy.  It can and does definitely stand alone, but is so much more enjoyable when read in order of the trilogy.  This was a wonderful story.  Definitely worththe wait!	2002-06-24
1500141:US	45284807	R3C4ZLGMOB7684	0440224926	611247779	Lady's Wager	Books	3	0	0	N	N	This Wager was Boring	It was nice to continue the saga of the friends and family from Dark Wager, only Lord Rexley, Jack could have been a bit more romantic, especially after meeting the rogue he was portrayed as in the prevous novel.  He was quite a lusty soul in the previous novel and seemed much too tame even for Gwendolyn.<br />The lightheartedness of Bella and Wulf's story helped to make this more enjoyable, but the secret of Jack's parentage was no big surprise.<br />I agree with the other reviews that there could have been a bit more sensuality introduced in the love scenes.  I tended to grow a bit bored with the non-action of this book.	2002-06-23
1501409:US	45284807	R3DOG54G3FEJ44	0440224918	275066590	Dark Wager	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Dark Soul Seeing the Light	It is hard to say something nice about the hero in this book Lucien Bryland after the beginning of this book portrayed him to be a hateful, rotten, creep.  He was all that and more! Not a very nice person.<br />His betrothed, Lady Clara Harkhams, while not a beauty, had the soul of an angel - and she really and truly loved him, or rather she loved the boy he had been, not the man he had become. It must have been her women's intuition that made her stick it out with him to find that the tortured soul needed her, badly, to bring him out of the darkness and into the light.  It is a wonderful story to watch the love develop, finally, into an everlasting love such as the kind dreams are made of.<br />On the other hand, there were a few other story lines contained in here that at once amused - Wulf and Bella - and wanted to make you cry - Uncle Robby and Aunt Anna.  These could have been stories in themselves but lent beautifully in the telling of the love story between Lucien and Clara.<br />Excellent story.  I particularly love the way Ms. Spencer always weaves the villians or villinesses into her storyline.  I would have given this one 5 stars if I hadn't been so frustrated with Lucien - somehow I couldn't get over his earlier darkness! Well worth finding a copy and reading it!	2002-06-22
1503691:US	45284807	R8P2RZF8THO4J	0373289731	777098091	The Bride Thief (Harlequin Historical, 373)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Bride Thief will Steal Your Heart	This follows the story of another Baldwin brother from the Bride's Portion\\" and \\"The Heiress Bride\\"  only this is Justin's story.  He was always sombre and so very serious growing up it was a delight to see him become so assertive and steal away Isabelle Gaillard after he had fell under her spell when courting her cousin Evelyn.<br />Justin was not stupid and only courted Evelyn whom he had seen was manipulative because it was the only way he could keep seeing Isabelle.  He stole her away and brought her to his small holding Talwar.<br />Isabelle, had fallen in love with Justin the moment she had laid her eyes on him.  He was different than most of the men courting her beautiful cousin but she had never hoped that he would even notice her.  Her life was something akin to a Cinderella - the poor relation kept only to serve her relations.<br />The story was superb, as I've found all of Ms. Pauls bride books to be.  Each book stands on its own, and this one does splendidly.  Both Isabelle and Justin had only to believe in their good fortune in believing in each other.  This book had all the elements one comes to expect from Ms. Paul - couldn't put it down.  Find it at all costs and enjoy the superb work of this author.	2002-06-20
1504170:US	45284807	R3A7D9TGIAA1MO	0061084077	661344720	Honor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a Fabulous Story	This was not one of your run of the mill medeival stories.  Yes, the Lady Amica of Lancaster was divinely beautiful. She had escaped a cruel and evil baron and the King, her cousin had ordered Thomas of Reed to find and rescue her - to guard her and bring her back to Thomas' Lord Eric of Reed as swiftly as possible guarding her with his life.<br />Thomas of Reed, however, was not your typical male hero.  He had the finesse of a bull in a china shop when he finally got around to courting Lady Amica.  He was a real 'in your face' kind of guy who was absolutely precious!  The part where his liege Lord Eric was trying to instruct him in how to court a Lady was so funny. Here was a grown man, a Knight feared by most all of the army of Reed, having to be instructed in how to speak and court this lady.  Priceless, absolutely priceless!<br />The tenderness, the awakening of love - what a story!  This was a fabulous book.  It will hold your attention and you will not want to put it down!  Hard to find but well worth the search. Terrific - a medieval Beauty and the Beast!	2002-06-19
1507089:US	45284807	RUIXEDEV1A58	0373289014	294926076	Heiress Bride	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very enjoyable - great sequel that can stand alone!	The Heiress Bride introduces you to Lady Rosaleen Sarant of  Seire who has been beaten into unconsciousness by her legal guardian her Uncle Anslem. Her uncle is forcing her to wed  a man, although a noble,  who has paid a high price for the very beautiful heiress but he is known to be  foul, uncouth  and an abuser of women.<br />By disguising herself as a common woman, Rosaleen makes good on her escape. She is about to be  assaulted by those thinking she was a common strumpet when she sought shelter at an inn.  Hugh Caldwell, not a Knight, although he had been asked many times by the King to be Knighted, notices her plight and through quick thinking saves her from that mess. She begs him for an escort to get her to London, and he has no intention of going there but relents and will bring her to his brother who he's sure will get her there.<br />Here then, evolves the story of the man saving the woman and the woman saving the man. This is a sequel to the Bride's Portion, although the story is so well written it stands extremely well on it's own.  It is a story of selfless love, and the compromises that can be made when people love and trust one another. Rosaleen keeps her secret, even from the man she loves, knowing she could be killed if her Uncle or her betrothed find her.  Hugh denies who he is and must come to terms with his past, swallow his pride, and forgive the father he felt betrayed him.<br />This truly is a wonderful story with a lot of emotion, human kindness, humor, and above all love.  Terrific sequel, but can definitely stand alone.  Well worth your while to try to obtain a copy of this out of print book.	2002-06-17
1508326:US	45284807	RIQQ7JTSX286N	0373288662	942116522	Bride's Portion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Story	Lillis of Wellewyn was the most beautiful woman Alexsander Baldwin had ever seen.  His younger twin brothers had kidnapped her and thought that he would be pleased by their resourcefulness because Lillis was the daughter of his most hated enemy, Jaward of Wellewyn.<br />Lillis had spent the last 10 years of her life in a convent and was anxious to get home, now she was being held prisoner by this hateful person who was undeniably handsome and already betrothed to a beautiful cousin.  In order to save his people from ruin because of her father's demented anger Lillis was forced to wed this man, so that he could gain her 'bride's portion' which was the land and river that her father had dammed up.<br />What follows is an absolutely wonderful tale of wheeling and dealing medeival style.  This was a very fast moving story, with many plots and subplots that were skillfully woven together and tied up so quite nicely.<br />I really enjoyed this story, my first by this author and I look forward to reading the rest she has to offer.	2002-06-15
1509285:US	45284807	R1QY3L9ND5VCDN	0553582003	531722337	The Secret Swan	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Outstanding	This was an amazing story.  I have found after reading every single one of Ms Abe's books that she writes passionate and wonderfully exciting medieval tales with just the right amount of mystery.  She gives you everything.<br />This was the story of Lady Amiranth St. Clare loving Tristan Geraint since the moment she saw him at the age of 9 years old. She thought all her dreams had come true when it came to pass years later that he had offered for her hand in marriage.  At 15 her heart was bursting with joy, only to have it trashed so thoroughly, mere days after the wedding.<br />Fate, had many lessons for them both to learn and this story runs the gamat of emotions from childhood love, heartbreaking rejection, adolescent arrogance, family betrayal, unspeakable tortures, forgiveness and the reawakening of love lost.<br />What more can you ask of a story?  Fabulous book - great new author.  Thank you Shana for a wonderful story! I look forward to your next offering!	2002-06-14
1510831:US	45284807	R2ENE4R7R82WXN	0553581996	214367831	Intimate Enemies	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Incredibly Exciting as well as Romantic	Whew! I just finished this book and I think I was holding my breath the last few chapters - it was that exciting and oh soooo romantic.<br />Beautiful Lauren MacRae was kidnapped as a child and held hostage by the English and it was in a dungeon she would meet the Englishman Arion du Morgan who would save her life.  Years later she would return that favor on a battlefield against a new enemy and save his life.<br />He was now the Earl of Morgan and she the leader of the Clan MacRae.  Both of these wonderful people were raised to hate one another but they were intelligent enough to realize they needed the strength of an alliance to fight a more vicious and common enemy.  It made sense to form an alliance, but it also forced them into each other's company, finding themselves drawn to one another in spite of the history that taught them to hate and despise one another.  Lauren was betrothed since childhood to Payton Murdoch, a powerful laird of Clan Murdoch and she would do her duty to her people for the honor of Clan McRae, even if it meant denying a love she thought never to feel.<br />This was such an amazing story, there were so many obstacles to overcome between these two people but Ms. Abe  writes with such intensity that you can feel the passion drawing them to one another.  This is a historical romance, but one that has a tremendous amount of  bite and so much action that you will have trouble putting it down.  Ms. Abe is definitely on my `buy' list!	2002-06-13
1511766:US	45284807	R31NGTR1QO6NJ1	0553580574	627525380	A Kiss at Midnight	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful and powerful romance	It is fast approaching the end of the first millennium and an -old prophecy dictates that the wealthy estate of Alderich held by the Rune clan - must be relinquished to the Leonhart clan. Rafael of Leonhart does not trust Jozua Rune to honor the dictates of the prophecy, so he kidnaps Jozua's granddaughter, Serath Rune, from the convent where she has lived for 12 years. Serath just happened to make the kidnapping easy as she was trying to escape the convent, after years of abuse, the very same night the kidnapping was to take place.  Talk about having a bad day!<br /> Rafael is not at all what Serath expected having preconceived ideas after growing up with the rumors of the Leonhart's being the devil incarnates.  And Rafe is not immune to the dark and mysterious beauty rumored to be a witch either. Quite an unlikely couple, to say the least. Neither one of them trust the other.<br />Rafe thinks Serath's grandfather will relinquish the castle easily for the safe return of his granddaughter.  Serath knows that this will never happen, because her grandfather has never cared for her.  Not only that, but Rafe thinks that having the granddaughter of Jozua Rune will help control the peasants - then finds that they are terrified of her - wow, is he ever having a bad day!<br />What follows is a very rich and satisfying tale of the panic, and superstitions that were rampant at the turn of the first millennium, couple this with very well fleshed out characters of the two main people of the novel and you have another hit by this very able new author.  It is a wonderfully romantic story of two people learning to trust and respect one another as they fell in love.  Shana Abe is getting better and better for every new novel she writes.	2002-06-12
1515280:US	45284807	R2KXOBW0S2WZH8	055358054X	559388108	The Truelove Bride	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutely Terrific	I am fast becoming a true Shana Abe fan! This book was terrific, showing us a bit of everything one comes to expect in a historical romance and then some!<br />By the reviews, you have this awesomely beautiful Lady Avalon d'Farouce.  As a child she was stolen away, for her protection, on the night that fierce Picts came down from the hills to slaughter her family.  She was kept hidden away by the mad father of her betrothed.  She had a terrible childhood, being groomed to become the warrior bride that would break a 100 year old curse on the clan Kincardine.  But it was this grooming that made her vow never to become that bride!<br />Now, the notoriously fierce soldier, Marcus Kincardine, comes and in spite of her resolve not to marry she cannot ignore the attraction that is between them. He is so unlike his father, her tormentor, and she does not believe she is the legendary bride of the fable -  she can't and won't believe it.<br />This story has wonderful magical elements to it, mysteries and latent sensuality.  It all comes together beautifully - an absolutely divine read!	2002-06-09
1515564:US	45284807	R31XLAB4K00R4P	0553577883	935319031	The Promise of Rain	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Great Romance with Mystery	What another great story from this new author.  Lord Roland Stathmore ordered to find and capture Lady Kyla Warwick - his one time betrothed. Because of a huge scandal at court, Kyla and her brother Alister had run away to relatives in the highlands of Scotland, and Lord Roland, aptly named the Hound of Hell would do his duty to his soverign and bring them back.<br />Strathmore had never met his betrothed and was not ready for her incredible beauty, and spirit.  Temptation and feelings he could not control, led him to gamble his very life in an attempt to save her from the Tower.<br />What follows is a marvelous story of romance, a little bit of magic, quite a good mystery, and an unforgettable love story.  What more could you ask for!	2002-06-09
1517217:US	45284807	R2KM19OM3HPG1G	0553577875	964774746	A Rose in Winter	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Rose Indeed!	This was my first book by Shana Abe, and after this introduction, it will NOT be my last.  This was a wonderful story of Lady Solange and Damon her childhood hero and love.  She was the daughter of the Marquess and he the ward of a neighboring estate.  They were brought up together and were kindred spirits at best.  It was unspoken between them but Lady Solange knew that someday they would be together.<br />One day, at the age of 16, it came as a shock from her father the announcement that she would be wed the next day to the Earl Redmond.  Knowing that Damon would fight for her, it was a test of her love for Damon to make him believe that she would wed the Earl of her own free will, otherwise Damon would be killed.  What no one knew was the depravities which she would face once she left as the bride to the handsome and evil Earl of Redmond.<br />This was a very well written book with just the right blend of mystery and romance to keep one interested.  I had trouble putting it down... definitely a gauge to rate this a 5* read!	2002-06-07
1518368:US	45284807	R14ARENIXH6DHJ	0671778684	865182781	Dreaming	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great Sequel to Bewitching	This was a delightful tale, from the extremely talented wordsmith, Jill Barnett.  I did read Bewitching first so I was delighted to revisit some very dear and wonderful `friends'.<br /> Letitia Hornsby was first mentioned in Bewitching but not really introduced, but here we have her story.  Letty has been in love with Richard since the first day she met him when she was only eleven and knocked him into a river.  The fact that catastrophes follow her like a shadow adds to the outrageous comedy of errors that is her life.<br />Richard knows that she is in love with him but he is a rake of the worst sort, and Letty just loves him in spite of himself.  Fate has managed to get them both caught by smugglers and pirates, and lord help the smugglers!  Letty aboard a ship in the middle of the Channel?<br />This is a delightful tale and marvelous to see Richard being saved from himself by her totally selfless love.  Another wonderful read from Jill Barnett.  Super funny!	2002-06-06
1519484:US	45284807	RKIOQS4JZGFMH	038080901X	564087049	The Bride Sale	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Story	If the very genteel Verity Osborne thought that having a halter placed around her throat and put up for auction by her husband was horrendous, then the person who actually won her for 200 pounds could have turned out to be her worst nightmare.<br />Lord James Harkness, aka Lord Heartless by the folks in the small English village in Cornwall, was appalled that a seemingly lady of quality was being auctioned off like an animal.  As he watched the proceedings and saw that she might end up with the very huge, filthy and coarse village smithy, he without thinking, outbid him and rescued her.<br />Verity was taken to his home and waited thinking he would assert certain rights over her as his `property'.  As time went on she realized that this dark, tortured soul was not evil as the villagers seemed to think, she begins a campaign to try to help him.  She endears herself to the villagers by her compassionate and gentle ways and her helpful herbal cures.<br />Verity can help James' tortured nightmares with a herbal remedy to sleep, but her biggest challenge is to cure his tortured soul and prove that he is not the murderer and as evil as everyone thinks.  In the process she must also keep herself from falling in love and fighting the attraction that seems to grow stronger everyday.<br />This is a wonderful story and has a great twist in the end that ties the whole story together.  Excellent compassionate and heartwarming feelings really make the story work and make you feel good.	2002-06-05
1521597:US	45284807	RG6HNXEVPJ2BX	0843949651	893302337	Noble Intentions	Books	5	48	53	N	Y	Absolutely Outrageously Funny	After reading the other reviews which so aptly describe this hilarious book by this new author, I predict she definitely has a very bright future.  Good Lord, all I could think of while reading book was that it could be the most hilarious comedy of errors since &quot;Tootsie&quot;! I have NEVER laughed so much since I read Lynsay Sands - &quot;The Deed&quot;.<br />Noble Britton, aka, Lord of Lips, Loins, Kisses, etc. fell in love at first sight with the oh so tall, oh so ACCIDENT prone, and oh so delightful half-American, Gillian Leigh.  Nothing shy and retiring about this lady! You see, she definitely has this 'problem' with speaking EXACTLY what pops into her mind - no holds barred.<br />For Gillian, the attraction was definitely mutual, when she first spotted him, her Lord of Magnificence.  The author has such a way with dialog that is just so precious you can just picture all of these scenes.  I could not put this book down and read it in 5 hours - less if I didn't have to pick myself up from the floor so often from laughing.<br />Definitely put this book on your list to buy - read and enjoy - then wait anxiously for the next offering from this delightful new author!	2002-06-03
1523854:US	45284807	RMFHRE5XT54V2	0380797100	141899859	Because of You (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Because It's Another Cathy Maxwell Triumph	I really loved this book.  It was so moving to see these two people fall in love after such a miserable start!<br />Samantha Northrup was the vicar's daughter and somethng of a healer.  She really was put upon by the villagers but it wasn't until they forced her to marry the man she had taken in and healed thru a serious bout of infulenza did she really see them for the hypocrites they really were.<br />Yale Carderock, the prodigal son, returns to his home to show his father that he wasn't worthless, only too late for his father had died a couple of years earlier.<br />The most amazing thing was see the growth of Yale in this book.  He was honorable - otherwise, no one could have possibly forced him to marry Samantha - nothing had hapened between them, but he recognized the fate that awaited Sam and he was there to save her, even if meant continuing a lie - such as marrying her under a false name.  But he was determined to make sure he took care of her for she had saved his life.  What follows was his passage from an angry and proudful young man to a caring and loving person. It was a joy to behold, to watch him fall in love.<br />Cathy Maxwell is surely a genius in touching the human heart and soul.  She has touched mine with these so romantic love stories she so effortlessly tells.  This was a can't put down kind of book... Definitely one to savour.	2002-06-01
1524571:US	45284807	R1YDSVEWQ958QS	0380797097	780643682	When Dreams Come True	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	What Fairytales Are Made Of	Cathy Maxwell does it again with this wonderful story of an uncommon earl - Lord of Penhollow - Pierce Kirrier and the beautiful and mysterious Eden who he rescued from the sea.<br />You do have to believe, of course, that she is what the villagers have conjured up for their beloved Earl.  They knew he must marry and beget his heirs and he was so loved by all, that they just had to believe that the perfect bride would show up.<br />Well, maybe not so perfect, but appearing so, the very elegant, beautiful and accomplished Eden did wash up on their shores, and it was something of an instantaneous love at first sight kind of attraction.  But where would any story be without the mystery and the secret of who Eden really was.<br />Delightful, warm, loving and just the type of novel to curl up with any old day and fall in love all over again.  Personally, I'd like to conjure up an Earl of Penhollow - dreamy, noble, sexy and strong! Lovely!	2002-05-31
1525804:US	45284807	R32RNRJQH7UOCA	0380787180	620518463	Falling in Love Again (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Love Is So Grand	Lady Mallory and John Barron had no say in their arranged marriage.  He was given a nights notice and Mallory was given about a day - all was arranged and two strangers met the wedding night.  The wedding night was not to be remembered by Mallory, other than her humiliation that her groom left and would be gone for 7 long years.<br />Having been forced from Craige Castle for unpaid bills, she went in search of her errant husband with the sole purpose of gaining a divorce. She had heard that he had returned from the continent's wars and was whooping it up in London.<br />What follows is an absolutely lovely romantic story of love, trust and redemption.  I thoroughly enjoyed the attempts of John to woo back his wife and finding himself falling in love with the woman that was once the girl he had left behind.  It was so  terribly sweet and so romantic. I did not find it boring at all ...  This was truly a very touching love story and showed the growth and maturity of the two individuals who learned to overcome obstacles and find themselves to be friends who rather liked one another and then found that once in a lifetime....lasts forever kind of love!  Great story!	2002-05-30
1527758:US	45284807	RG8MECO95G30I	0821771205	980204258	The Mating Game (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny Story - But I Still Love Her Historicals	The Mating Game is a great little contemporary story, with a lot of Ms. George's great humor.<br />Mallory Ginelli is the author of several steamy and highly sensual romance novels.  Enter her life, a very up-tight British Earl who is also a Ph.D. who speciliazes in human sexuality behaviour and doesn't know how to speak to or \\"woo\\" a woman. That is the proposition given to Ms. Ginelli, teach him how to romance the fair sex - not an easy thing to do when the Ph.D. is a cross between Kevin Sorbo and Robert Redford! Keep this totally a research project!? Not!<br />Ms. Ginelli has her work cut out for her and brings along her best friend Freddie, a white Jewish American Princess, with an attitude and a  wise cracking mouth that will knock you off your chair laughing.<br />This ride is hilarious and we can score another hit for Ms. George.	2002-05-29
1529069:US	45284807	R19YU1TH9GR8HZ	0451205804	923981954	Hazard	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Lovely Romantic tale	Lady Anne Peckworth, the sheltered daughter of a Duke, finally gets her tale told.  Having been left behind (can't say jilted) by the heroes in both &quot;Forbidden&quot; and &quot;The Dragon's Bride,&quot; it was nice to see her get her own story. She is lovely, even with a club foot which is why she has stays away as much as possible from the society to which she belongs.<br />Enter Race de Vere, also introduced in &quot;The Dragon's Bride&quot; who is basically on a mission from the rogues and himself, to see how Lady Anne is taking the news of her latest beau's marriage and suffers no permanent damage.  Race actually feels somewhat responsible, as he was the one that held back Com's letter of intent to Lady Anne knowing that his friend's heart was not taken with Anne.  So, Race, being an honorable person, manages to attach himself to her brother in order to check in on the Lady.<br />Race is entranced by Lady Anne and even though he is attracted to her and she as well to him, they both know that the class differences would never be allowed for him to be considered as a suitable suitor.  As is the way with all Beverley novels, where there is a will - there will be a way!<br />This is a wonderfully fleshed out portrait of two beautiful souls who come together, where the rules of society were absolutely aghast at this pairing.  But better than that we are introduced to the Duke of St. Raven who's story I cannot wait to read!  A great story told by this fabulous author.  Definitely a keeper.	2002-05-28
1532040:US	45284807	R3PPM4PSW7E3FA	0440237122	486589927	The Bride Thief	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Joy to Read	Samantha Briggeham - Sammie to most - was resigned to spinster hood at the ripe old age of 26.  She was intelligent, kind and very happy in her own little world - happy that is, until her mother was determined to have her last daughter married off.  It didn't seem to matter to anyone but Sammie that the chosen bridegroom was not anyone she was the least bit interested in or wanted for that matter.<br />Enter the notorious &quot;Bride Thief&quot;.  He heard of the plight of poor Sammie and set in motion her kidnapping.  Unfortunately for him, Sammie, had solved her own problems with her betrothed and by the time she was kidnapped, her problem betrohtal was resolved to be dissolved.  The bigger problem was that now, the Bride Thief had to return his victim, and hope that her reputation was not diminished.<br />Eric Lansdowne, the Earl of Wesley, was actually the Bride Thief with a huge bounty on his head, that would get him hung if caught.  He felt responsible for Sammie and set out to make sure that she suffered no ill effects from her kidnapping.  Quite by accident, he found himself drawn to this young woman who was like no other he had ever met, and he began to feel things that for him could prove dangerous to his health.<br />Ms. D'Allesandro  serves up another wonderful cast of characters in this tale.  A brilliant younger brother, the meddling marriage minded mama, and the intelligent lovely Samantha.  The dialog is witty and fast moving. Scenes of Sammie and her sisters discussing ways to prevent pregnancy are a hoot. The romance and seduction of the Earl are hot and sizzling! A wonderful story.  Can't wait for more for this amazing talent!	2002-05-25
1535727:US	45284807	R30DFI4F47SW9L	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely Wonderfully Wicked!!	I adored this book!  I can't make up my mind which I like the best of this trilogy....they were all fabulous - Wonderful - Wild - and  Wicked - What a fabulous trilogy and wonderful love stories - each and every one.<br />Lady Sofia Howard was introduced to us in the first novel - Wonderful and I just knew that this was going to be an unforgettable story. Ms. Barnett did not fail to capture the strong will of this heroine.  She was the ward and cousin of the King Edward.  She was exceptionally beautiful and very richly dowered and it wasn't until she was a teenager that she had a glimpse of the man she would lose her heart to and have it broken all at the same time.<br />Sir Tobin de Clare was introduced to us in Wonderful as well and not a likeable character as the then squire to Lord Merrick. Handsome, rich and arrogant as all get out, and harboring a hurt that does not get explained until this novel.<br />The battle lines are drawn and these two main characters are in for the time of their lives as they both grow and mature and finally find the most wonderful love of all.<br />A definite keeper to savour and read again and again.	2002-05-22
1538983:US	45284807	RGEPWFIUIC83W	0671004131	150861299	Wild	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderfully Wild and Witty	Roger FitzAlan was sent by King Edward to establish a site for another castle, to fortify the Welsh borderlands. While out searching he was ambushed by an unknown assailant and left for dead.  Frightening as he was, Teleri happened upon his body, and though he was more dead than alive, she brought him back to her cottage in the woods and nursed him back to health. She doesnt trust the English, or anyone other than the animals who are her sole companions in the woods, yet she wouldnt leave him to die and finds herself drawn to him.<br />Teleri of the Woods  was different from any other woman  Roger FitzAlan had ever known or met. Yet she has something elusive that he has never known, and she brings to him, this mighty warrior and knight, a sense of peace.<br />This is truly a beautiful love story, where an arrogant, stubborn knight is enlightened in the ways of true love.  A lovely story, not as much humor as in the first novel (Wonderful) in this trilogy but quite nice and very entertaining.	2002-05-19
1539901:US	45284807	R2IOJ2PSTQM13G	0671004123	199011881	Wonderful	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Wonderful IS  WONDERFUL!	Another great story from the pen of Jill Barnett.  To set the stage - The heroine, Lady Clio has been in a convent two years longer than she was originally led to believe.  Having never met her betrothed, she had a young girls dreams of romance, of a hero Knight that would come to woe her, etc. etc.  Unfortunately, she has lost that feeling of being wooed and hears that her betrothed is on his way to claim his bride. Insulted and her pride damaged by the embarrassment that it has taken him so long to claim her she decides that she shall teach him a lesson.<br />Lord Merrick, after fighting for so long in the Crusades, is just so happy to finally be coming home to claim his 'calm and peaceful' life along with a biddable betrothed bride, or so he thinks.  Well, that isn't about to happen, because Lady Clio is nothing like what he expected and she has a bone to pick with him for being 2 years late.<br />This story is so rich in humor and secondary characters, including brothers Thud and Thwack, a one eyed cat called Cyclops, and a bird that can't fly and hangs and swings along on her long braid.  Of course,there are also Lady Clio's attempts to make the legendary `heather ale' - ales that do not come out quite right and do strange things to people.  Parts of this book have such outrageous dialog and funny scenes that it had me laughing so hard the tears in my eyes wouldn't let me continue reading.  This book was simply WONDERFUL.  It deserves the HIGHEST of a 5 Star rating.  Definitely a keeper!	2002-05-18
1542745:US	45284807	RTIO9LL19N9EE	0671778633	119994188	Bewitching	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Be Bewitched by Bewitching	I am so glad that I stuck in there and tried another of Jill Barnett's novels. I now see why she was recommended to me.  This book was delightful, whimsical and utterly romantic.  I loved it!<br />The very handsome,staid and uptight Duke of Belmore was not a happy fellow, was planning to marry another of the ton, just like him, but fate had it that he would be jilted before the notice hit the papers.<br />A flower seller, told him that the next female he met he would marry, so he leaves London immediately to get away from all women.  Enter the very inept witch Joyous Fiona MacQuarrie, who just can't seem to get her spells right and lands in his lap in the woods.  Just the beginning of this delightful tale.<br />Joy bewitches him with smile, her eyes, albeit, without him realizing it and in a matter of spite over being jilted, he marries her the very next day!  On his part it was in spite, but Joy found him so devastatingly handsome and sensed that he needed her.<br />So begins this delightful and wonderfully bewitching tale.  Believe in magic, believe in witches and believe that you will be enchanted by Bewitching.  A real keeper of a book.	2002-05-15
1545403:US	45284807	R5GMYRR6XKCEG	0446517089	178190446	The Heaven Tree Trilogy (The Heaven Tree / The Green Branch / The Scarlet Seed)	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Classic Best of All Time	This has to one of the best books I have ever read.  The story of this noble turned stonecutter in the often brutal medieval period was nothing short of magnificent.  Although this book is out of print and quite lengthy (899 pages)it is well worth the historical romance lovers time to read this magnificent story!  Love, honor, hate, feuds and heart wrenching forgiveness. This novel covered it all.  Absolutely fabulous!  I cried so much in the last chapters that someone walking in on me thought a family member died.  - Try your best to find a copy and do take the time to read - This has to be a classic!<br /><br />Unfortunately, I loaned it out so many times I have to buy another one.  Do not be hesitant by the 900 pages  - think of it as three separate books of which it truly is.  One of the finest pieces of historical literature I have ever read!	2002-05-13
1546418:US	45284807	R3R6X2YM2QUZWX	0060002050	10081740	On a Wicked Dawn (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not Her Best Cynster	I am a big Stephanie Laurens fan but this was not one of her best books.  It started off with a bang and I laughed so hard at the beginning, when Amelia proposed to a drunken Lucien Ashford.  Then it got really slow and although the sensuality was there, it didn't quite pack the wallop that her other Cynster novels had.<br />The last portion of the book, when she introduces the rest of the wonderful Cynster family in, is where it again gets interesting.<br />I really rate this as a 3-1/2 but gave it a 4 because a 3 was not fair.<br />I was only slightly disapointed, but still a fair read.	2002-05-12
1546604:US	45284807	R15TB6TOK8K6KS	0671684124	671383184	The Heart's Haven	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not a Great Read	I was recommended this author, to read and will try a few more before I completely lose interest in this author as I believe this was one of her earlier novels and I feel she might need more time to develop her stories a bit more.<br />I didn't find the characters to be very well fleshed out. I was pretty much bored with the story. There was no real zest or zing to keep me interested.<br />I would not really recommend this book.	2002-05-12
1550458:US	45284807	R1LMGWSZUKRMY2	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly Sensual - You Better Believe It	If you read the description of this book ....Cynster family saga with this highly sensual tale featuring 23-year-old Amanda Cynster, cousin of the six former rogues who starred in Laurens's earlier entries...... Well, they are not kidding!  This tale featuring Amanda Cynster is something else.  Hard to believe that a young lady of that period could actually pull off some of the stunts she did to lasso her object of desire, the fabulously elusive Earl of Dexter! Amanda was bored with the men she was meeting out in the ton and was looking for something a bit more wild. She found it in Martin. From the first night she met him her feelings sizzled.  The chase was on, and yet she had to make it seem that she was not one of the many who had set their sights on him. - Ladies, one could take lessons from this book on how to pursue without making it look as though you were!<br />Martin actually was intrigued by Amanda, and his protective instincts came out even though he knew that it would come to naught as he was banished 10 years before by a deed that he was innocent of, but couldn't prove at the time.<br />If you have read the other books from the Bar Cynster series, then this is a continuation of a feast that Ms. Laurens presents to you of a highly sensual nature.  Nobody, does this better!  Great book - another keeper!	2002-05-09
1553547:US	45284807	R2OE9G2XTW7VDO	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Another Winner from Hunter	I rather fell in like with Morvan when he was first introduced in the prequel - 'By Arrangement' - a little overbearing but so wonderfully protective of his sister.  But, my oh my, when you really get to meet him in The Protector, wow...you can fall in love.  He is one of those big, strong, take control kind of guys with honor. The kind that you can really depend on.<br />The rub to this was that his heart's desire, Anna de Leon, was something of an Amazon type and well able to take care of herself.  Just watch the sparks fly!<br />This novel is sensually powerful, and wonderfully written as are the rest of her series set in this medeival era. Ms. Hunter just keeps getting better and better and is a must on my buy list for anything else she comes out with.  A real keeper - loved it!	2002-05-06
1568707:US	45284807	R13T01WIVUA8S4	0553583360	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Somewhat Slow	I have to admit I did like this story, although it was somewhat slow for my taste.  Lavinia and Tobias did have a lot of tension between them, although it wasn't a terrible amount of sexual tension in the beginning - they really just seemed to aggravate each other immensely.  The dialog was quite witty, the scenes were humorous in some areas.  The mystery was there, right up to the very end, you were guessing - I didn't figure out the ending until quite near the end.  I think this may turn into a very enjoyable series!  Definitely worth the effort to read it!	2002-04-23
1572707:US	45284807	R29727IA82U0CL	0553571907	642717169	Mischief	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Quick Read Because You Can't Put it Down!	This was probably the 2nd novel I've read by Amanda Quick and I did enjoy it immensely!  The heroine 'Immodest Imogen' and the hero 'Cold Blooded Colchester' were both hoots in their own way. I found myself laughing out loud with both the dialog and the descriptive scenes that catapulted me into the room as a fly on the wall!<br />I like the fact that neither were interested in impressing anyone in the 'ton'.  They both, did it their way! It was a great matchup of two distinctly individual upper class folks!<br />Great story - had trouble putting it down.  Very enjoyable read!	2002-04-20
1573143:US	45284807	R1L9DPEEGJM22S	0553583557	905022111	Lord of a Thousand Nights (Medievals)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Twists, Turns and Great Romance	I am still so grateful that I picked up this authors body of work, she is definitely a star on the rise.  I loved this book that had a bit of everything thrown into it - even some comedic touches as well!<br />It starts out grabbing your interest from the very first pages, whith Lady Reyna Graham, disguised as a courtesan, passing behind enemy lines with a desperate plan to save her people.  She meets up with Ian of Guilford, the epitome of a lady's man for his era and is dizzy from his breathtaking handsomeness!<br />You can read the other reviews for more of the story, but I must say that this latest offering had a bit of everything.<br />If you've read the other books in this series, you will be reintroduced to David and Christina (By Arrangement), and Morvan and Anna (The Protector) - The three females form a wonderful bond.  There are mysteries galore, hot sensual scenes, and wonderful historical background.  All in all a wonderful addition to this this authors series of novels.  A definite keeper with the rest.	2002-04-20
1573629:US	45284807	R2FUIOWNLEYMR	0553582232	937215647	By Design (Medievals)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great Story	Another wonderful love story by Madeline Hunter - She just keeps you enthralled with this time period.  Having read the previous novel - By Possession - you tap into Rhys' story.  Rhys was interested in Moira in the previous novel and lost her to Addis.  Well, Ms. Hunter gave him his own story and wow, what a story it turns out to be.<br />Rhys, a well to do free mason runs into a lovely vision selling her wares in the market place.  He recognizes her talent and is amazed at how good her work is when she doesn't even have the appropriate tools to work with.  Her name is Joan, that is all she tells him and as luck would have it (for her) he runs into her again while she is in stocks being punished for someone elses mistakes.<br />Joan has issues, of trust, and it is not easy for Rhys to break down her barriers, when he has secrets himself that seem at odds with her issues.<br />This book is wonderful in that rather than the Lords and Ladies, balls and soirees, you get a glimpse into the lower classes life and see again, the class distinctions, and most of all not only a love story but two souls that come together as kindred spirits.<br />I loved this story as well as the previous ones and will retain this book for my keeper shelf as well.	2002-04-19
1575936:US	45284807	R15O975CQ3AGPO	0671003593	923679266	An Angel for Emily	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fantastic Fantasy	I've read the other reviews and each to their own, but I must say - if you catergorize this book where it should be - as an entertaining, fun, fantasy tale - it deserves no less than 5 stars!<br />I found this to be very enjoyable - I love the idea of finally meeting your very own guardian angel and romantically speaking - why not have one who is such a gorgeous hunk of manhood?!? I could deal with that!  The dialog was outrageously funny - trademark Deveraux flippancy! - I read this while on vacation and enjoyed it immensely - it is a keeper - Like all of Deveraux's books!	2002-04-17
1576236:US	45284807	R28X0UQ04NPRT	0843949740	133567777	The Reluctant Reformer	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Always a Winner!	One thing you must say for Lynsay Sands - ANything she writes generally has outrageously funny dialog and this one scores a 10!<br />Talk about a comedy of errors - or should we say a breakdown of communication.<br />Since her brother Gerald died and left her property without the proper funds to maintain, Lady Margaret must find a way to support herself and old family retainers that she cannot let go of.  She assumes her brothers pen name and begins to write articles for a local newspaper.  Now everyone knows that a certain amount of research must go int these articles, so donning a plethora of disguises, Lady Margaret has gone into a number of places no 'Lady' should be seen in.<br />Enter, Lord James, who is alive because her brother took the bullet intended for him.  On his deathbed, James promised Gerald to look after his sweet innocent sister.  To find this sweet innocent sister in the bordello - dressed as Lady X - well he just had to save her!<br />This was one terrific read! I don't see where anyone who reads this will not absolutely burst out into gales of laughter! This is an outstanding book by an outstanding author. All her books are keepers - especially this one!	2002-04-17
1576611:US	45284807	R30AWGKCGP2MPO	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Uncommon and Brilliant Love Story	Madeline Hunter is a star on the rise.  With this book BY POSSESSION you have an uncommon love story.<br />The hero, Baron Addis de Valence, has returned from having been thought dead for the last 8 years.  But to Moira Falkner, serfborn, she has loved him all her young life and there is no mistaking the scarred face that she herself helped heal from the past.<br />Addis comes home to find that his, father is dead, his wife is dead, and his step brother is now in league with the present powers to be and confidantes of the King.<br />During that time Moira has raised his son.  She was granted her freedom but all witnesses are either dead or not around to prove her claim.  Addis will not lose her too, so he refuses to let her leave.<br />This is a magnificiently written love story.  The characters are so strong their stories could stand alone but the love, the bond, that holds these two together is wonderfully done in an often brutal time in history. Nobility just cannot marry baseborn - it just wasn't done.  But LOVE doesn't recognize class distinction!<br /><br />An absolutely marvelous love story that will bring tears to your eyes.	2002-04-17
1576796:US	45284807	RFHADQQX1V9C2	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Engaging and Different Medeival	I picked up all of Ms. Hunters novels based on reviews and started with her first - By Arrangement. I found this to be an excellent story with enough suspense to keep you turning the pages.  Here you have your captivating heroine, Lady Christiana Fitzwaryn, a ward of the King promised to be wed to a Merchant.<br />Now this is a premise that in this setting is most unusual, but of course the merchant, David de Abnydon is a most unusual merchant! There are a lot of reasons why he has bought his bride, sight unseen and with no dower, at such high bride price. But you must read the story to find out as I'll never tell.<br />Lady Christiana, on the other hand, believes herself in love with a Knight of the Realm and is insulted that her status is being lowered so devastatingly by a marriage beneath her class.  Her brother, Morvan, also is furious but powerless to stop this unusual arrangement!<br />You see a lot of growth by the heroine, well fleshed out characters and a glimpse into this medeival period that is wonderfully portrayed by this author.  Altogether, a wonderful book and another superb author to watch!	2002-04-17
1591431:US	45284807	R2RT3WEQ8TH9BK	0380794551	791979887	Captain Jack's Woman (A Bastion Club Prequel)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Great Story - Highly Sensual	I've read most of Stephnie Laurens work and it's still a toss-up to me as to which hero is the sexiest.  Up til now, it was Sebastian in the Devil's Bride (Bar Cynster series), but Captain Jack (aka Lord Hendon) takes my breath away.  On a scale of 1-10 for sensuality this is definitely a 10!<br />Sensuality aside, I really liked the story!  Lady Kit is fresh and alive.  On a midnight ride,dressed as a lad, aboard her fabulous Arabian mare Delia, she inadvertently saves a small smugglers gang from being caught by the revenue men and becomes their leader, unbeknownest to them that she is a woman! After a few well devised and successful smuggling ventures, she runs into Captain Jack and becomes engaged with him in, of all things, a sword fight!  Still disguised as a lad, Captain Jack is wondering why the slight lad is giving him uneasy thoughts.<br />Well, and so it goes.  The story is really quite good.  Quite a lot of interaction (sex) between the two main characters, once Captain Jack figures out who Young Kit is. I love the strength and arrogance of Captain Jack, who really has a way of taming the beautiful, wild and passionate Lady Kit - very steamy sex scenes.<br />If this was Ms. Laurens debut novel, it is no wonder she went on to such great success with her later entries! A definite keeper and one to be re-read and savoured again, and again.	2002-04-05
1594559:US	45284807	R2R3IEAB7I7KHF	0821752057	504880609	Love Songs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outstanding Love Stories	I don't generally go for contempary love stories but feel that this one definitely deserves my praise.  This was not just the story of Jeffrey and Julia, but Diana and Sam, and also Casey and Patrick.<br />Of course, Jeffrey and Julia is the meat of the story, but the other two stories blended in so beautifully, it truly was a bunch of love songs. Sad, and so sweet.<br />I'd never read anything by Katerine Stone before so this was a rare treat.  I can honestly recommend this book.  Wonderful writing and three magnificent loves stories! Great book!	2002-04-03
1596968:US	45284807	R1BQKM9NWRBWCO	0821768433	538094232	Christmas Angel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding As Usual	By the title, you may guess correctly, that I am a BIG Jo Beverley fan.  This, the supposedly 3rd in the rogue series ( I find just about all tie into the series)is outstanding in the fact that here you have a younger man, pursuing an older, albeit young enough to be able to produce an heir,woman.<br />He is Leander Knollis, Earl of Charrington, who has issues over seeing the one sided aspect of love (his mother's love  for the self centered father).  He does not want this, so he looks for a biddable woman, who is unlikely to fall in love with him.<br />Enter, Judith Rossiter, akda the &quot;Weeping Widow&quot;. A woman who to all seems still devasted and in mourning over her dearly departed husband. - OR SO IT SEEMS!<br />As usual, the dialog is crisp, sweet, funny and you get to actually SEE these two fall in LIKE, then LOVE.  You also get to re-visit Nicholas and Eleanor and hear news of the other 'rogues' from the previous novels.  What more could you ask for from this brilliant and wonderful author.  Just MORE, MORE, MORE!  Loved this! So very sweet you could read it over and over again!	2002-04-02
1598976:US	45284807	R3ERQHZIYHWS0I	0451202546	567240126	The Devil's Heiress (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hope for plain types	I really, liked this 3rd novel in the George series of Hawk and Clarissa.  I found it quite satisfying in terms of the fast movement, bringing in characters from former novels, and tying up loose ends.  I loved the \\"Hawk\\" even though he was portrayed as pretty much unfeeling and out to prove Clarissa a cheat, murdereress and forger.  It goes to prove that even plain girls can find true love.<br />Clarissa is not portrayed as a beautiful femme fatale as most heroines are.  She will inhereit a fortune when she turns 21, and has resigned herself that her money, and not her looks will bring her a husband, so she goes into a relationship with eyes - wide open to that fact. Knowing it is her money that attracts she is willing to play the game for all its worth.<br />Hawk, on the other hand, has no intention of marriage, only to try to gain back what he felt was robbed from the truly rightful heir of Lord Deveril. Clarissa finds him, handsome, sexy, and well, even if he is attracted by her money, she plans to play his game.  She is a spunky, forthright, outstanding heroine - I really liked her!<br />This was an excellent tale.  I had read all the previous novels that introduced all the players so, I could relate to the tying up of loose ends. Now, I wonder if Ms. Beverley would like to finish up Dare's story!  Dare should be a good one, yes!?!	2002-03-31
1609839:US	45284807	ROEWD0BPO14ZD	0843949317	454538948	Wish List	Books	5	27	30	N	N	A Wonderful Gift to Yourself	I've said it before, I really do not like anthologies, but Look at these authors, two of my very favorites! Lisa Kleypas and Lynsay Sands! They were the two that made me buy the book and the other two were surprise bonuses!<br />I loved the dialog with Lisa Kleypas! I cannot tell you but the comment from Lord Andrew when he was told that he looked like an 'unmade bed' had me on the floor - you have to read the story to hear his outrageous answer - pure delight!<br />Lynsay Sands certainly did not disappoint either. The mischief she causes while trying to get her father to stop drinking and gambling before losing everything they owned - priceless.<br />Lisa Cach and Claudia Dain's offerings were every bit as delightful.<br />I must say this book should be at the top of everyone's list for just the pure enjoyment of full outrageous belly laughs!	2002-03-22
1616663:US	45284807	R22JGPDHMBK74N	0373834179	106903308	The Brides Of Christmas: The Wise Virgin/ The Vagabond Knight/ The Unexpected Guest	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Three Superb Short Stories	I bought this book because I absolutely LOVE Jo Beverley and I was not disappointed with &quot;The Wise Virgin&quot;.  The case of mistaken identity but finding true love amidst such problems of long time bitter feuds.  I really shed a few tears on this one, as to the poignant way Ms. Beverley fleshed out her characters.  She makes me laugh and she makes me cry.  So sensual in such a short story, it was a pure Beverley delight.<br />I was very much impressed with &quot;The Vagabond Knight&quot; by Margaret Moore, as well.  Here you had two wounded souls both past the fresh dew of youth, older and hopefully wiser, but both carrying baggage.  I cried for these two as well as laughed as some of the dialog, and shed tears of joy at the end. I felt she dealt well with giving both a history and tieing it up quite nicely in the end.<br />The &quot;Unexpected Guest&quot;, by Deborah Simmons, again was a wonderful short story.  Being able to flesh out so many characters this well in so short a story time is the mark of a very accomplished author.  I was so impressed with this story, that I plan to look into other novels by this author to pick up more works on the de Burgh family.<br />As a rule, I dont like anthology novels and much prefer the meatier stories, but this was excellent.  A keeper to reread around the holidays!	2002-03-17
1619710:US	45284807	R2YYS8WWX4S6FS	0451408012	317232401	Lord of Midnight (Topaz Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Magnificent Story	I just love Jo Beverley! She never fails to move you into the period and into the hearts of minds of her main characters.  Here you have the story of Claire Summerbourne, anxiously awaiting the return of her father from a rebellion to overthrow the upstart king Henry Beauclerk.  Instead, who rides up to the castle but Renald de Lisle, kings champion, to bring her fathers body home and assume ownership and title to Summerbourne.<br />He has won the prize of Summerbourne, along with the kings orders to wed without delay, one of the three maidens living there and to care for the rest of the deceased Lord Summerbournes family.<br />Meeting Claire Summerbourne, he is immediately taken with her and as much as she would admit to herself, she finds him physically disturbing.  The plot goes on with Renald trying to wed the lovely Claire before she discovers his awful truth.<br />The characters are so well fleshed out, you can feel all the emotions and struggles each has in their hearts and soul.  Again, a most magnificent story set in and during the reign of King Henry.  I also love the way she reintroduces characters from previous novels so that the flow of these books brings you back to revisit the other characters that you hated to lose track of once their stories had ended.	2002-03-14
1620163:US	45284807	R2EOV9CQUXHJ1N	0451408020	700133089	Forbidden Magic	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Forbidden Magic - Truly Magical	I don't know what the other reviewers were reading because I found this book delightful and quite, to the point, magical! I  found Sax to be absolutely delightful, sexy, fun, and needy.  I found Meg to be charming and also needy.  They each saved one another.  The entire household was a blast, including and especially the pets!  The dialog just so spicy, sensual and fun!  I'm wondering if these other people read the same book as I did!<br />Granted, I am a big FAN of Jo Beverley, but I truly enjoyed this Regency romp and was sorry to see it end!  Maybe the sister Laura's story could come next?  Definitely a keeper!	2002-03-14
1626244:US	45284807	R3MKJ9ORSWCTMU	082175310X	354066145	The Shattered Rose (Dark Champion, Book 3)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Amazing Story	Only Jo Beverley could come up with this story.  So amazing, considering the times, of the hero coming home from the crusades to find, not only his son he'd never seen, dead, but his wife for whom he'd been celibate for 2 years, holding a few month old babe, who obviously was not his.  Not only does he forgive her, but accepts this child whole heartedly because he would never conceive of hurting his beloved wife.<br />What Galeran goes through to overcome the betrayal and then the machinations to overcome all the difficulties of keeping the child are nothing short of heroic.<br />Then, on top of that, you have Aline and Raoul's story (which I truly enjoyed).  I'll say like a previous reviewer, what an amazing tidbit the fact that ladies of the manor were supposed to bath high ranking visitors. This was truly an eye opener. What a way to weave historical fact into a delightful romance.<br />This is an amazing book, but anything by Jo Beverley, I've discovered is terrific.	2002-03-09
1632835:US	45284807	R381JP7EXVQXMW	0451199979	234694502	Devilish	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very moving and thoughtful	I waited until I had obtained all of the Malloren books before starting the series.  Each member of this family (particularly the men) had my heart beating so fast and I just couldn't wait for Rothgar's story.<br />As good as what it was, and anything written by Jo Beverley is excellent, it just didn't capture my heart the way the others did.  In fact, it seemed more Diana, Countess of Arradale's story than Rothgar's.  I think that is what bothered me the most.<br />I didn't see Rothgar portrayed as much of the 'take charge' dark, dangerous, person depicted in the other Malloren books.  He was in love, thoughtful, and very much afraid of showing his feelings because of his tortured soul.  There was not enough of the witty, 'devilish' repartee he seemed famous for in the other Malloren novels.<br />He just took his time (too much) in proving that &quot;With a Malloren, all things are possible&quot;.  I could have cried for the frustration Diana was going through.<br />Definitely a good read, but not the best of the series.	2002-03-04
1638651:US	45284807	RUA129YWRTAH8	0451408896	716530883	Secrets of the Night	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Could Not Put it DowN!	I mean really, who else could come up with this story?  A young gently bred Lady married to an older man who seemed on his last legs and in order to save the manor and the people must have an heir which the older gent cannot seem to provide.<br />Rosamund Overton and her cousin, Lady Diana, come up with a plan to find a likely candidate at a masquerade ball but Rosamunde chickens out and flees the event.<br />On her way home she comes across a man along the side of the road.  Playing the good samaritan she picks him up and brings him to her cousins dower house and after cleaning him up a bit, recognizes a likely candidate who could possibly 'do the deed'.<br />It sounds a little cold blooded, but then this is a MALLOREN and things are just bound to HEAT up!<br />The story is wonderful, the characters are so well fleshed out, and what more could you expect?  This is another of Jo Beverley at her best - but when is she not?  Definitely a keeper.	2002-02-27
1640525:US	45284807	R1O939F3WVIQ44	0451407806	36208249	Something Wicked	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Go For it Girl!	Another Jo Beverley masterpiece! This is the story of Elf Malloren (twin of Cyn)and sister of Rothgar (God I can't wait to get to HIS story)and the Earl of Walgrave (Fort).<br />If you've read the prior two novels on these Malloren's you can fully appreciate the animosity that drives Fort to hate and despise all Malloren's.<br />Lady Elfred (Elf) is now 25 and feeling a bit 'on the shelf' as well as bored out of her mind.  Her watchdog brothers are all elsewhere and she is staying with a married friend who is also feeling like an adventure so they decide to go masquerading at the 'wicked' Vauxhall Gardens - mainly for a little spice in their lives.  Unfortunately, Elf ends up getting a little more excitement than she bargained for.  After a couple of narrow scrapes she finds herself running literally, right into Fort, who of course, does not recognize her in disguise. In order to save her from a worse fate (she eavesdropped on a treasonous plot) he abscounds with her to his mansion for a night of pleasure.  In disguise, Elf does get a wonderfully wicked taste of what is to come and so the story goes.<br />Elf does escape Fort with her virginity still intact but he has awakened in her a taste for more 'wickedness' and also her sense of duty in establishing whether or not Fort is really part of a treasonous plot against the King.<br />Now she must decide what to do, wait for her brothers to come to sort out this mess or take action! What's a girl to do! Well, naturally, she really would like to run into Fort again and really do something wicked - just once in her life!<br />This is a wonderful story - a definite keeper and I really can't wait to get to the rest of these Malloren's!  You will love this book!	2002-02-26
1641386:US	45284807	R27MRV8UN41FPB	0821748580	499361031	Tempting Fortune	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Just Keeps Getting Better	This is another of Jo Beverley novels at her best.<br />It is the story of Portia St. Claire and Bryght Malloren. She who hates gaming of any kind, seeing it as the disgrace that ultimately killed her father and the seemingly downfall it appeared to be heading towardsher brother.<br />Bryght, seemed like another gamester and hawk as well, but that couldn't stop her feelings for him, nor would she let anyone, including herself, know of them.<br />The story, as all of Jo Beverley's novels, moves at a wonderful pace, fleshes out the characters wonderfully, and leaves you always wanting more!<br />I will say though, that Portia rather infuriated me at times for taking her time in admitting to her love for Bryght.  He was just too perfect for me to have any doubts whatsoever, in spite of the gaming aspect!<br /><br />Oh, I cannnot wait for Rothgar's story - hope it comes soon!<br />This one, like all of Jo Beverley's novels, definitely a keeper.	2002-02-25
1646047:US	45284807	R1CMY4Q5H61DCA	0741406993	464718661	First Season	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Splendid First Season	First of all, I loved this book and found it very difficult to put down.  As the description states, the very beautiful Fantine Delmere totally starts out on the wrong foot by contemptously insulting the Earl of Ashcom out of hand.  The same Earl on whom her family's subsistence is dependent.  As a form of punishment he forces Fantine to a London Season with the ton she disdains with the instructions that she find a husband who will offer not only for her but will also take over the support of the family that has been the responsibility of the Earls' family for over a century.<br />The Earl's resentment of Fantine is so fierce that he is quite surprised to find that somewhere along the way he has fallen for this beautiful 'diamond of the first water'.<br />Knowing that she has made a major mistake, it takes some time for Fantine to discover that her trepidation in meeting the Earl's eyes, and her inability to apologize without further insulting him is masking her 'strange feelings' towards him as well.<br />I loved the sexual tension so deftly implied by Gloria [Gay's] style of writing.  You didn't need a blow by blow description of an act to intensify the sensuality that came easily to the forefront proving that ofentimes, less is better. This, I felt, is the mark of a truly outstanding author!  This book is definitely a keeper not only for the story which I hated to see end, but also for the beautiful cover which showcases the artistry of Gloria [Gay's] painting ability.	2002-02-21
1647685:US	45284807	R40QS12ZKWQJM	0380772817	37241689	Deirdre and Don Juan (A Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Lovely Story	I have been reading all of Jo Beverley's novels from the earliest to this point (still have a lot to go) and found, as always that I love this women's style.<br />In Deirdre and Don Juan (he is only part Spanish, hence the nickname)you have a hero who, rather than divorce his wife after she left him, used the marriage to fend off any like-minded mamas and was able to conceal his hurt behind the many dalliances he engaged in.<br />In the beginning, this suave and handsome man appears quite arrogant, which as you find later in the novel, was a shield to protect him from the hurt and devastation he experienced when his beautiful bride left him after 6 months of marriage. The reasons are explained later in the book.<br />With Deirdre, however, one has to wonder why even a plain, young, intelligent woman from a good family would want to marry a commoner mathemetician with little prospects.  She convinced herself that she was needed and, he was handsome, left her to her embroidery which was her passion, but there was very little communication.<br />Don Juan finds himself a widower and before too many people find out he must find a suitable wife, to beget an heir now that his older brother has passed on and it is now up to him to set up his nursery.<br />The tale between Deirdre and Everdon (his real name) is so sweet.  He assumed all he needed was a biddable brood mare and plain was just fine with him, there was no passion or lust involved in the choice, in fact Deirdre was his mother's suggestion.  What follows was an awakening on the part of both of the participants, with a little push from Don Juan at the end, that just shows the talent for storytelling by Ms. Beverley.<br />I really liked this book, and if you had read her earlier novels, you will see characters from her previous books enter the scenes to add to the continuity of the time period.<br />I look forward to reading more and more from Ms. Beverley who is a stellar talent with wonderful gift for storytelling.telling.	2002-02-20
1654892:US	45284807	RHO3089HCOXYW	1931391904	951473798	Forced Offer	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wonderful Story	This was my first novel by Gloria Gay and I will look forward to more offerings by her.<br />This novel was somewhat of a Cinderella story with not a wicked step-mother but rather, the mother from hell.  Shunned and mostly forgotten her first 13 years of life in lieu of an older sisters beauty, Belinda came to believe herself to be unattractive and not worthy.  But, she had a secret love for the neighboring Earl of Berrington, since she first saw him at the age of 13.<br />Enter the pushy ambitious mother who tricks both into a compromising position and a forced offer of marriage.  With such a start and the Earl thinking Belinda part of the scheme, this was not a match made in heaven. Not only a bad start but Belinda is then left, after a few days of the marriage consummation, with the \\"jealous\\" sister-in-law whose pettiness is nothing short of torture. Trying to maintain his fury at having been tricked into the marriage, Richard, Earl of Berrington, must fight his arousal of the mouse he is now married to.<br />This was a very nice story, that moved swiftly and I enjoyed very much.  A very delightful read.	2002-02-14
1655736:US	45284807	R22DDNKO13TBYS	0380767848	215247069	Lord of My Heart	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Frustratingly Delicious	This is another of Jo Beverley's earlier novels written with just the right amount of sensual delight to heighten a romance lovers interest.<br /><br />The period is quite early (1068) with the Norman conquest of England and William as the King.<br />Madeline de la Haute Vironge given a choice to wed one of three choices of King William. But the choice is and is not easy even if the handsome Aimery de Gaillard were not her hearts desire. She has every reason to fear him and he has reason to hate her.  Or so one would think..<br /><br />Oh, were it not for the authors pen to write such misunderstandings between two people so destined to be together.<br />Another beautiful story one has come to expect from the pen of Jo Beverley. Try to find a copy and read it.	2002-02-13
1657569:US	45284807	R33LHB608H7XKY	0380715554	148484562	Emily and the Dark Angel (Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful If You can Find a Copy	Having read some of Jo Beverley's later novels I set out to read everything she's written.  Emily and the Dark Angel is a marvelous story of Piers Verderan and Emily Grantwich.<br />The very proper Emily, thought firmly on the shelf at six and twenty, had a very uncommon introduction to Piers &quot;The Dark Angel&quot; having been doused with powder as it was being thrown at Piers.<br />They do say that opposites attract and try as she could to fight it, Emily does feeel drawn to this uncommon Rake.  How she fights both her feelings and learns to break out of the standard mold that the period seems to put females in is a delicious romp  made to come alive through the talented pen of Jo Beverley.<br />If you are lucky enough to locate a copy of this earlier work, you will definitely enjoy it.  A real keeper.	2002-02-12
1666969:US	45284807	R1ZONEKY6P4YLJ	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Dream of an Author	I started out reading Lisa Kleypas with Stranger in My Arms (fabulous I might add) and then systematically bought and read everything she has written. Lisa Kleypas is an exceptionally accomplished author, and in my opinion, anything she writes is a 5 or better!<br />With Where Dreams Begin you have the story of the the fabulously wealthy Zachary Bronson - handsome, virile, sexy and with bad taste.  Bad taste that is except for his attraction to the upstanding and socially correct widow Lady Holly Taylor.<br />In an effort to lure her to him he offers her a job at an astronomical salary to instruct him and his family in the refinements that would ultimately open doors for them to the drawing rooms of the ton.<br />Unknown, to him and to her, was that Lady Holly Taylor was finally being awakened to her sensuallity and he, jaded person that he was, had fallen irrevocably in love. This next to the last novel in my pile by Lisa Kleypas, will make you laugh and cry. Lady Holly's daughter Rose, is an unexpected joy that tugs at your heartstrings.  Comments reinforcing the saying, 'out of the mouths of babes'.<br />Definitely a keeper (along with every other novel she has written) to be read and savored again.	2002-02-04
1693381:US	45284807	R2OEPS8567WCPQ	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	5	5	6	N	N	D'Alessandro Means You'll Love It	I've just completed both of Ms. D'Alessandro's novels and have to say that she is a rising Star in the Romance genre.  This her first novel is a wonderful story that had all the elements I look for.  Handsome hero, Lord Stephen, only our heroine Hayley ALbright doesn't know it.  She thinks he's just a tutor who was wounded as a result of a botched robbery.  The truth is he has just narrowly escaped the second attempt on his life and doesn't trust anyone. Narrowly escaped and survived, thanks to Hayley who comes upon his wounded body and nurses him back to health.<br />The Albright household, is just superb with characters you'll just fall in love with.  This book is a definite keeper.  Loved it.	2002-01-15
1693705:US	45284807	R1OPI682EVKFC6	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Breathtaking	My second book by Ms. D'Alessandro and it will not be the last! Loved this one as much as her first &quot;Red Roses Mean Love&quot;.  This was so good, the Duke and the naughty American.  Wonderful play with words, the humour was right on! Loved the secondary characters and the names of the cats - Gadzooks and so on and so forth.  Absolutely delightful and very HOT romance! Bravo!	2002-01-15
1704501:US	45284807	R3S49ODGF68YYB	0821770101	849149821	The Devil's Due (Zebra Book,)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Always A Pleasure to Read	Ms. George has done it again with a fast paced, excitingly, sexy and sensual novel pitting a beautiful hell-cat heroine with a sinfully handsome hero.  This was not one of your run-of-the-mill Lord/Lady balls and sitting room type romances either but had adventure and excitement on the high seas. It had an emotional element based on Gray's scarred childhood, and yet, there was still Ms. Georges signature humor along with a cast of secondary characters and pets that make this one of her best novels yet.  Bravo again Ms. George.	2002-01-07
1707388:US	45284807	R2Q66RNR6LMN6A	0373834985	647650262	A Comfortable Wife	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Comfortable Read	I have read all of Stephanie Laurens novels - Devils's Bride being my favorrite - This story of Lord Philip Ruthven and Antonia was a pleasant read although not quite as exciting and sensual as others she has written.  Antonia has always loved Philip with a great passion and her feelings are kept subdued based partly upon 'advice' from her mother.<br /> Her mother's immense grief over losing her husband - a love match - made her bitter and she warned Antonia to guard herself from having her heart broken - never fall in love - have a comfortable arrangement. Thank God, Antonia didn't quite listen!<br />Again, her cast of supporting characters, are wonderful, especially the irreverant butler.  A very good read, but not my favorite which is the 'Devil's Bride'.	2002-01-04
1723420:US	45284807	R10I4MRGNYB515	0380780747	232060645	Splendid (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A Truly SPLENDID Read	I've recently discovered Ms. Quinn and have set out to buy and read everyone of her novels.  This one had me practically falling off the chair with laughter.  I'm glad I was in my home as I am sure I would have caused quite a sight if I'd been reading this in public.<br />American Heiress meets a confirmed bachelor of a Duke.  The pages just sizzle at the spontaneous combustion these two make when thrown together.<br />Romance just doesn't get much better than this.  A truly SPLENDID read!	2001-12-22
1723472:US	45284807	R21MU11Y8B3WXE	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Offer You Can't Refuse	Another Bridgerton bites the dust....or a romantic love at first sight, only it takes Benedict quite a while to realize that this is his soul mate!<br />Sophie Beckett, illegitimate daughter of an Earl, along with the VERY wicked step mother, gets the ONE chance of a lifetime to go to a ball, a masquerade ball, and in so doing meets the man of her dreams.  Much like Cinderella, when the clock strikes midnight she must flee.<br />Julia Quinn takes over from there and a most delightful and positively romantic tale evolves in these two star crossed lovers finding one another again.  Sophie recognizes Benedict immediately, but Benedict is still looking for the vision from the masquerade ball and doesn't recognize his soulmate dressed in the housemaid's garb.<br />A truly wonderful tale, again from the pen of Ms. Quinn, whose novels are an absolute delight.  I'll read anything this lady writes and positively it will come up a winner. Don't miss this one, it's a keeper!	2001-12-22
1727115:US	45284807	R2M91NOAVTCLLC	006018888X	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss: A Cynster Christmas Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Promise to Be Enthralled	This is the 8th novel of the Cynster series and should have been the first.  Up until now The Devil (Sylvester) had been my favorite sexy, powerful, male until I met his father! Well, okay, it may still be a toss-up but Sebastian and Helena have a powerful chemistry and attraction! Ms. Laurens writes a breathtaking love story.  One can feel and see, as though they are a 'fly on the wall' because she makes us see them so clearly! Sebastian raising his eyebrow; the eye contact between Helena and Sebastian, all of it!  Just the type of love story to curl up in front of the fireplace and savor.<br />If this is your FIRST Cynster novel, I guarantee you will be HOOKED to read the rest!	2001-12-19
1754597:US	45284807	R16A34S36U240B	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tender &amp; Funny	I have just completed reading three of Ms. Quinn's novels and they are all KEEPERS, the Duke and I, is so tender and loving, compassionate and FUNNY! This lady has a rare talent.  Lord Anthony Bridgerton determined not to LOVE and Miss Kate Sheffield, the sister of the incomparable of the season. The most sought after bachelor whose heart is stolen without him even realizing it.  She made me laugh, she made me cry, but most of all, Ms. Quinn leaves me yearning for MORE! Bravo Ms. Quinn! This novel is definitely a keeper!	2001-11-28
1840238:US	45284807	RL0QNWXGF0057	0821770098	32132471	Handsome Devil (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This One's Another Keeper!	If you've never believed in love at first sight, you will after you read this. Sheridan Delaney, spit-fire, always in trouble, speaks her mind, beautiful, stubborn and runs headlong into one big Handsome Devil! Not only is he handsome but a tender wonderfully sensitive man. Wow! Stand by for ignition! These two were absolutely meant for each other, as Nicholas' endearing cousin Jules knew. Dialog aplenty, that will have you on the floor and laughing so hard the tears will come down your face. But that's not all, throw in a deaf butler, an oriental gardner/houseboy, a wacky aunt and a feisty uncle... and Scally - well you're going to have to read the book to find out about him! Lord what an amazing cast of characters to support this wonderful romance from the extremely capable and talented hands of Melanie George. This one is a real keeper and on my list of all time favorites to re-read again and again!	2001-09-14
1844284:US	45284807	RF7YH1JI4U396	0821765744	606757546	Like No Other (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Captivating and Funny	Ms. George has done it again. By that I mean, even if I did start reading this author with one of her more recent novels, I have now set out to read all she has done and, so far, I am not disappointed. This, &quot;Like No Other&quot;, is not your run of the mill romance. Her heroine is a cocky street smart urchin and her hero is an absolutely tender, strong, smart, sensual...need I say more...I loved him! Kate, aka the Fox, was a delight, making you both laugh and cry. Secondary characters, especially Holmes the butler provided the perfect foil for Ms. George to perfect her talent for snappy dialog in a most amusing and delightful way. Hat's off to you on this keeper and am looking forward to reading &quot;Handsome Devil&quot;.	2001-09-09
1872915:US	45284807	R15N05E0MXVXJI	082177008X	100629802	Devil May Care	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fabulous Read	This is my first Melanie George book and I will probably buy all her others if this is a sample of her work.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Eden is so beautiful, and innocent. Damien is absolutely gorgeous and not really the Devil he makes himself out to be, just a tortured soul.  Reggie, Eden's cousin is a hoot - in real life he would have to be counted as one of my BEST friends - Love him! This is a wonderful story, great characters and a very entertaining read.	2001-08-18
1883234:US	45284807	R1W9KBAL2VWDRM	0380795833	44449418	Upon a Wicked Time (An Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A Wickedly Awesome Tale	Young 16 year old Tessa Astley, sitting under a tree, met her Prince charming in the guise of Jered Mandeville, Duke of Kittridge, and then three years later is wed to the irresitably handsome Duke.  A dream come true one would think, but Karen Ranney, led these two down a tumultuous path.<br />It was hard to like the Duke at first because he was soooo hateful to Tessa who absolutely adored him.  He did not realize she would have the audacity to stand up to him when having wed her he thought he would just escape to London and leave her in the country to breed his heirs.  Not Tessa, who turns out to be one of the spunkiest heroines I have run across lately.  The part where she decided to visit Jered's mistriss (thinking she would find him there) and the conversation with said mistriss was absolutely hysterical. The descriptive scenes of loving, took my breath away.  This was my first book by Karen Ranney and it most definitely will not be my last. I loved her writing style!	2001-08-10
1929032:US	45284807	R2O4YCIB63RGBW	084394482X	284787270	The Key	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Bravo Lynsay Sands	Just finished reading The Key... an absolute breath of fresh air. Iliana and Duncan are perfect together. I love the way they both came to appreciate one another.  The dialog was so fresh, bright and spontaneous, I found myself laughing throughout.  Not only at Duncan and Iliana, but Angus, Elgin, and all the other minor characters, whose wit added to this lively tale of the lovely English Lady Iliana forced to marry the Scotsman Duncan in order to remove her from a wicked step-father and thereby pave the road for the eventual release and annullment of her mother.  Both had to learn the ways of the other, but Liliana's use of the chastity belt to keep her foul smelling husband away just led to so many moments of pure hilarity.  I especially liked Ms. Sands description of the passed out Duncan and what Liliana thought of his manhood parts! I just about fell on the floor with that one...and enough cannot be said about Angus, that lovable bear of a father-in-law.  His misunderstanding of what his son was going through was pure joy!  I LOVED this book!  Definitely a keeper to reread again!  Bravo Ms. Sands...can't wait to read your other novels which I will be ordering en masse shortly.	2001-07-07
1997437:US	45284807	R16Z6PT3LF6J2Z	0743410556	286751184	A Woman of Virtue (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	A new Favorite Author	I have just about finished this novel and have just ordered the other three books written by her! Wow! I love her writing style, Her hero Delacourt is my kind of guy, Kemble is an absolute riot, de Rohan and Cecilia - awesome.... and the dialog in this novel alone is fabulous.  I find myself belly laughing throughout - that is when I'm not swooning over the love scenes - very erotic!  Another great author to add to my list...I can't wait to read her other novels and look forward to anything new! Bravo ... another devoted fan!	2001-05-16
