5968:US	49115690	R3NR3UWFOUSMC8	0312341695	681124186	First Drop	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A boondoggle goes wrong and a woman is on the run	It's supposed to be a boondoggle. Charlie Fox's boyfriend is on assignment in Florida and he wangles her a job working security for the software company that's hired him. Her assignment, guarding the teenaged son of a star programmer, is annoying because the kid is a bit of a jerk, but she's out of cold England, enjoying the Florida sunshine, and able to spend the nights with her boyfriend--or at least that's the plan. But the plan goes very badly astray when someone tries to grab the kid at an amusement park--and opens fire.<br /><br />Unsure of who she can trust, fingered by someone as responsible for the killings herself, and alone in a foreign country, Charlie and Trey go on the run. When she tries to make contact with her employer, instead of help, more gunmen come after her. When she tries to find her boyfriend, she learns that he has disappeared, along with Trey's father. Charlie is dedicated to her job, but there's only so much one woman can do--and it would sure be easier if the kid she's supposed to guard wasn't such an annoying punk.<br /><br />Gradually, Charlie unravells some of the truth--that the software program is important, and could motivate murder, that there are multiple factions seeking the secret of the program, and that she's been set up as the scapegoat in whatever happens. Staying alive long enough to take advantage of what she's learned is going to be a challenge, though.<br /><br />Author Zoe Sharp plunges Charlie Fox from one danger to the next, barely giving the reader a chance to breathe. Readers may not be too surprised by some of the twists and turns that the plot takes, and there are a few cases where we wonder how a woman as sharp as Charlie didn't see things coming, but overall FIRST DROP is an enjoyable story.	2005-10-10
10077:US	49115690	R2SSF0M2YFIP6P	0440242738	684414502	Solomon vs. Lord	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun combination of legal thriller and romance	Victoria Lord practices law by the books. She's going to do her time as an assistant D.A., marry the handsome avacado-farmer and real estate developer she's engaged to, and become a corporate attorney and happy wife--with her student loans paid off no less. But first she needs to get through one trial--one where shady lawyer Steve Solomon is defending a man so obviously guilty Solomon has to call a parot to testify on his behalf. So, how does she end up sitting in a jail sell with Solomon, held for contempt of court. One thing for sure, she never wants to see him again.<br /><br />Solomon figures Lord could make one fine lawyer. But he's too busy to take on trainees--too busy mostly trying to figure out how to maintain custody of his nephew as the State of Florida grinds its way through the family court. Still, a hihg profile murder case would be just the thing to put his name on the map and bring in the clients. The only problem is, the latest murder suspect is a friend of Victoria Lord's. So, he's got to horn his way in on the deal, all the while denying the attraction he feels for the woman he wants to make his partner--his legal partner, that is.<br /><br />Author Paul Levine combines the legal thriller with humor and serious romance to pull together a combination that works. Serious suspense readers may find that SOLOMON VS. LORD reads as much like a romance book as a mystery, but Levine knows his audience--most readers are women and they want to read about characters who have lives rather than merely legal practices (heck, even a lot of men like reading that kind of book). The constant sniping between Solomon and Lord can only lead to one result, but the two, and the reader, have a lot of fun getting them there. The custody case and Solomon's rough relationship with his father seem a little more doubtful. Can everything really work out?<br /><br />Fans of legal thrillers who want something a little lighter and a lot of fun should definitely take a look at SOLOMON VS. LORD.k at SOLOMON VS. LORD.	2005-10-08
11979:US	49115690	R3ET98CY6FRJ7E	0758208138	778299041	Raining Cats & Dogs (Melanie Travis Mystery)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Enjoyable story--but a bit light on mystery	Seeking a way to escape the influence of her dominating aunt, Melanie Travis, and her champion poodle Faith, sign up for dog obedience classes. The class is a hotbed of rumor and past affairs, but they do one good thing--they visit a senior housing center weekly to let the residents visit with their dogs. Meanwhile, Melanie's life is getting very complicated with a new husband, her seven-year-old son, and five poodles living in a very small house, plus a job where one of her fellow teachers seems unduely interested in a well developed, but still 12-year-old seventh grader. Then there's the sexy neighbor with cats and a permanently missing husband.<br /><br />On her first visit to the senior housing campus, one of the guests dies--and the police discover it is murder. Recognizing Melanie's history of solving mysteries, her fellow obedience school members urge her to discover the killer. With a bit of pressure, and some help, from her aunt, Melanie sets off to do just that.<br /><br />Author Laurien Berenson maintains a light tone, provides lots of information about dog training and showing, if not so much about the mysteries she's solving, and recognizes the importance of personal life in her sleuth. Indeed, half the fun is watching Melanie solve mysteries between running around with her dogs, trying to keep her son entertained, exploring the sexy side of her new marriage, and dealing with an overcrowded life.<br /><br />RAINING CATS AND DOGS is an enjoyable story. I would have liked to see a bit more sleuthing and mystery mixed in with the 'life of Melanie Travis,' but that didn't keep RAINING from being an enjoyable story. Dog-lovers, in particular, will appreciate Berenson's attention to the interaction between dogs and their human-companions.	2005-10-07
17755:US	49115690	R2CT9S8DEYW9JI	0345457242	772147660	Drive to the East (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Strongest Turtledove Alt. History in years	The south has cut the United States in half, blitzkrieging to Lake Erie, but the US fights on. Recognizing that the Confederate States lacks the manpower or industrial resources of the north, Confederate President Jake Featherston and his generals come up with an ambitious plan to cripple the US's industrial capacity by striking at the heart of her steel industry--Pittsburg. With new barrel (tank) designs, the south rips another dramatic offensive--before getting bogged down in house-to-house fighting in Pittsburg. In the meantime, the US is filled with other frustrations. Japan has captured Midway and is striking at the Sandwich Islands (Hawaii), Utah is in rebellion as the Mormon community attempts to create an independent country in the heart of the American west, and occupied Canada, the only route connecting the east coast with the west, is in revolt.<br /><br />In the south, Featherstone has embarked on an ambitious plan to eliminate the black population entirely, replacing black workers with machinery and with Mexican guest workers. Although the US protests against Confederate genocide, few are that sympathetic. The plight of the black community is seen as an internal Confederate problem.<br /><br />As with most Harry Turtledove alternate history, the story is told from multiple viewpoint characters. Civilians, enlisted soldiers on both sides, politicians, generals, terrorist bombers, concentration camp guards, and black workers make up the cast. When this system works, it provides a kaleidoscope view of an entire world--and it works quite well in DRIVE TO THE EAST. Turtledove has reigned in his cast to a manageable number, killed off some of the more annoying, and narrowed the focus of his work.<br /><br />Students of history will enjoy Turtledove's continued exploration of a world where the south won the Civil War, allied with France and England, and in turn created an alliance between the US and Germany/Austria-Hungary. Turtledove doesn't hesitate to use history from our own timetrack to reflect back on his alternate. The Pittsburg offensive closely parallels Hitler's Stalingrad offensive during World War II, and Featherstone's genocide parallels Hitler's 'final solution' attempt to wipe out Europe's Jewish population.<br /><br />Turtledove is no bright-eyed utopian. Although the U.S. is clearly the more sympathetic side here, Turtledove's technique of focussing on multiple viewpoint characters lets us see the war from multiple sides. From their standpoint, the actions of terrorist bombers, genocidal maniacs, and ordinary soldiers on every side in the war make sense--seem almost inevitable.<br /><br />A few flaws marr Turtledove's work. Featherstone's decision to continue the Pittsburg offensive against the advice of his generals seemed inconsistent with the character Turtledove has created--although being necessary to exactly parallel the Stalingrad operation. One of Turtledove's style techniques--the repeated use of phrasology along the lines of 'The bed might have been more comfortable than if he'd been sleeping on wood slats. Might have, but might not have,' gets repetitious and tends to draw the reader from the story. Similarly, repeated information about both sides shooting up Red Cross ambulances, about the peculiar gurgle of poison gas shells, and the discomfort of the rubber protective suits used to protect against nerve gas helped bloat the book.<br /><br />Fortunately, however, these flaws don't detract from the overall power and scope of Turtledove's DRIVE TO THE EAST. DRIVE was the best Turtledove alternate history I've read in years.to use history from our own timetrack to reflect back on his alternate. The Pittsburg offensive closely parallels Hitler's Stalingrad offensive during World War II, and Featherstone's genocide parallels Hitler's 'final solution' attempt to wipe out Europe's Jewish population.  <br /> <br />Turtledove is no bright-eyed utopian. Although the U.S. is clearly the more sympathetic side here, Turtledove's technique of focussing on multiple viewpoint characters lets us see the war from multiple sides. From their standpoint, the actions of terrorist bombers, genocidal maniacs, and ordinary soldiers on every side in the war make sense--seem almost inevitable.  <br /> <br />A few flaws marr Turtledove's work. Featherstone's decision to continue the Pittsburg offensive against the advice of his generals seemed inconsistent with the character Turtledove has created--although being necessary to exactly parallel the Stalingrad operation. One of Turtledove's style techniques--the repeated use of phrasology along the lines of 'The bed might have been more comfortable than if he'd been sleeping on wood slats. Might have, but might not have,' gets repetitious and tends to draw the reader from the story. Similarly, repeated information about both sides shooting up Red Cross ambulances, about the peculiar gurgle of poison gas shells, and the discomfort of the rubber protective suits used to protect against nerve gas helped bloat the book.  <br /> <br />Fortunately, however, these flaws don't detract from the overall power and scope of Turtledove's DRIVE TO THE EAST. DRIVE was the best Turtledove alternate history I've read in years.	2005-10-04
26345:US	49115690	R1LAV3QYV1AQBX	0345476891	761960837	Stolen Magic	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good--but falls a bit short of Putney's capabilities	The 'Guardians' work together to protect innocents from rogue mages. A few of their number are called to become hunters, seeking after rogues and bringing them to justice. It's a dangerous task and, despite its importance, the hunters are often feared by others. One of the best of these hunters is Simon Malmain, Earl of Falconer. Simon's investigations lead him to Lord Drayton--but the rogue Guardian doesn't seem worried. And when Simon attempts to subdue him, Drayton turns the tables on him, turning Simon into a unicorn and attempting to kill him to gain the power of his unicorn horn. It's impossible for Drayton to hold such powers, but apparently he's done the impossible--and Simon thinks he can see how. Drayton is robbing the power of other mages.<br /><br />Drayton's guards stake out a handy virgin to capture the unicorn--and capture him, she does. But the virgin, Meg, is really one of Drayton's thralls--the magic-rich sources of his power. Together Simon and Meg attempt to bring Drayton to justice--only to find that the prejudices against Simon allow Drayton to escape from justice again. And now Drayton is fully warned--and intent on having his revenge and recovering the source of so much of his power.<br /><br />Author M. J. Putney continues her historical paranormal series with STOLEN MAGIC. Set in 1748, just before the dawn of the industrial revolution and after Bonnie Prince Charlie's doomed invasion, STOLEN picks a critical time in history. Invention is popping out everywhere, offering both promise and threat to established powers. When Drayton summons a meeting of inventors, one wonders whether he might attempt a powerful combination--creating a battery for magical energy, for example.<br /><br />The mystical attraction between the virgin and the unicorn (and although Simon regains his humanity, his unicorn side always threatens to break out) is interesting and sexy. Drayton's ability to draw on the powers of other magic holders adds an element of threat and evil to his character. And Putney's strong writing makes STOLEN easy to get into and hard to put down. Still, compared to Putney's A KISS OF FATE, STOLEN falls a bit short. Simon claimed to have evidence of Drayton's wrong-doing when he first apprehended him, yet he offered none of this evidence at Drayton's trial, when that evidence could have avoided all of the trouble to come. His willingness to strip Drayton of his power (frustrated by Drayton's unicorn spell) seems at odds with his later discussion of the difficulties in getting permission to do that very thing. And for me, the strong sensual element of the attraction between unicorn and virgin drowned out much of what I look for in a romance--an attraction between two humans.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong--STOLEN MAGIC is an enjoyable story. It just fell a bit short of what I expect from this talented writer.f threat and evil to his character. And Putney's strong writing makes STOLEN easy to get into and hard to put down. Still, compared to Putney's A KISS OF FATE, STOLEN falls a bit short. Simon claimed to have evidence of Drayton's wrong-doing when he first apprehended him, yet he offered none of this evidence at Drayton's trial, when that evidence could have avoided all of the trouble to come. His willingness to strip Drayton of his power (frustrated by Drayton's unicorn spell) seems at odds with his later discussion of the difficulties in getting permission to do that very thing. And for me, the strong sensual element of the attraction between unicorn and virgin drowned out much of what I look for in a romance--an attraction between two humans.  <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong--STOLEN MAGIC is an enjoyable story. It just fell a bit short of what I expect from this talented writer.	2005-09-29
30632:US	49115690	RD4D19RE3WINK	0758204876	93034810	Baked To Death (Simon Kirby-Jones Mysteries)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable but doesn't quite come together	Gay vampire Simon Kirby-Jones is working on his latest historical romance novel and trying to decide whether to make a move on his hunky research assistant when his former lover, Tristan Lovelace moves back. Tristan claims he's decided he was wrong to dump Simon--and wants him back. All of which leaves Simon conflicted--it's hard to get those old feelings out, especially since Tristan was the vampire that converted Simon in the first place. The love triangle is disturbed by the arrival of a medieval reenactment next to research assistant Sir Gile's manor.<br /><br />The medieval society is torn between rival claimants to the crown--and the animosities run deep. But when one of the claimants is poisoned, Simon has to wonder whether game-playing and reenacting really is significant enough for murder. Could there be some hidden motive behind the poison. For example, could Tristan be taking advantage of the animosity to hide his own involvement. Together with Giles, and with the backing of handsome and barely out of the closet police detective Robin, Simon investigates.<br /><br />The idea of a gay vampire detective investigating medieval reenactors holds the promise of considerable humor. I was disappointed, therefore, that author Dean James chose to play this fairly straight. The humor is left in potential. Reviews of earlier Simon Kirby-Jones mysteries indicate that James is playing with the familiar mystery motifs. Here, I found any send-up to be too well hidden. We were left with a fairly standard mystery that just happened to involve a gay romance-writing vampire and a medieval faire.<br /><br />BAKED TO DEATH is written with an approachable style and certainly hooks the reader with the mystery. A bit more emphasis on the characters would have let me care more about the romantic resolution as well.<br /><br />I wasn't disappointed by BAKED and don't think many readers will be. I didn't think, though, that it lived up to its potential.	2005-09-27
31702:US	49115690	R3SW9T0RYF0Z1Q	0743250389	192468511	Video Cowboys: A Georgia Barnett Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sit back and enjoy the action	Television reporter Georgia Barnett just wants to go to the bank to pick up some cash, but a man with a bomb takes everyone hostage including her and her cameraman. He's obviously upset, possibly insane, and definitely dangerous. But all he wants is to see his daughter safe. Yolanda persuades the gunman to release her to get his message out--and finds herself in trouble with a hot-shot cop who wants to gun his way in no matter what the cost. A clever escape lands Georgia in legal trouble, but a crew of aging but still high-flying 'video cowboys' comes to the rescue. Together, they find the secrets of the daughter's life--and the trouble she's in.<br /><br />Author Yolanda Joe mixes action, slang and attitude from the African American community, and a heroine who won't stop--both when it comes to getting a story and when it comes to doing right--to deliver an enjoyable adventure. The gunman's demands come with a timeline--adding a ticking clock to the action as Georgia flies through the streets of Chicago looking for the truth.<br /><br />Things are a bit too well connected, the video cowboys are a bit too smart and macho, and Georgia is a bit too perfect, but let yourself suspend disbelief a bit--and enjoy the show.	2005-09-26
31908:US	49115690	R1Y9Q46EXH43BA	039306042X	983991254	Easy Streets: A Harpur & Iles Mystery (Harpur & Iles Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very strong addition to powerful series	Assistant Chief Constable Desmond Iles has maintained a weird balance of enforcement and tolerance in his English city. Drug lords Ralph Embers and Manse Shale divide up the profits and minimize violence in exchange for the police looking the other way. But a change in policy, with the government officially relaxing its attitude toward drugs, means that prices tumble. And with falling prices, the drug alliances are shattered. There simply isn't enough profit to sustain everyone.<br /><br />From the street level up to the top of the chain, dealers look for the chance to consolidate, to achieve monopoly. Iles watches his long-time policy shatter into violence and, to Detective Chief Superintendent Harpur, at least, Iles seems to fall into the uncomfortable position long held by their former boss, Mark Lane. Iles begins to see symbols in every act.<br /><br />'Panicking Ralph' Embers has had a profitable relationship with Manse Shale, but when Shale's lieutenant offers to kill Shale and work for Embers, the temptation is hard to turn down. Especially when Shale embarrasses himself with a flip-chart presentation. Meanwhile, Harpur virtually stumbles over a gunfight--and can't persuade anyone that it wasn't a setup from the start.<br /><br />As with every Harpur and Iles story, there's more going on than author Bill James (...) reveals. Did Iles set up the murders in an attempt to persuade the government that their policy is flawed? Was the red Audi part of a police hit? Is Iles angling for a cut of the drug money with his retirement? Iles remains the spider at the center of a web that stretches into the unseen.<br /><br />Author Bill James offers a dark and cynical view of policing. The line between good and evil, police and criminal, blurs to the point of invisibility. The dialogue between criminals, between Harpur and Iles, and between criminals and cops is filled with misdirection, with answering questions not asked, and with unexpected turns. There are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments, but the story is far from funny.<br /><br />EASY STREETS is a very strong addition to the fascinating Harpur & Iles series.story is far from funny.     EASY STREETS is a very strong addition to the fascinating Harpur & Iles series.	2005-09-26
32874:US	49115690	R2039QS9BX9CM6	0345451120	142978299	Straken (High Druid of Shannara, Book 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A bit too easy, but well written and interesting	With Grianne Ohmsford (the former Ilse Witch) exiled to the Forbidding, only Pen Ohmsford, with his newly created wand, has a chance to set her free. But the rebel druids have tracked Pen down and captivity seems the only option. Even if he weren't captive, though, what could one young man with minimal if any magical power, do against the powerful druids and their goblin-hunter allies. Meanwhile, the Federation has scored a major victory over the freeborn and is intent on pushing their advantage--possibly wipeing out the dwarves, elves, and other members of the freeborn community.<br /><br />The elf princess, Khyber Elessedil remains free--and initially undetected by the druids, but her elfstone magic is her only advantage--and the instant she uses it, the druids will detect her and capture her. Things look grim for Grianne and her entire family.<br /><br />Author Terry Brooks wraps up the HIGH DRUID series with a story focussed on the young Pen and his capture, escape, and attempts to free his aunt. The power of the darkwand is intriguing and the questionable relationship Pen develops with a dragon adds a bit of humor to the story.<br /><br />Things seem to happen a bit easily--the druid dungeons just can't seem to keep anyone in and the druids are incompetent at managing executions--which is lucky for our characters. And it felt like there needed to be a bit more of something dramatic with Grianne's step between the Forbidding and the normal Earth, as well as with the ultimate resolution with the escaped demon (and am I the only one who thinks that poor Weka Dart got a very raw deal. Still, Brooks is a talented enough author to pull it off, to make even this relatively simple story fascinating.	2005-09-26
32905:US	49115690	R3K81B4ZDCGRET	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Honor and living a life--in a dangerous world	Revolution is in the air in Spain in 1868. Aging fencing instructor Don Jaime Astarloa stays away from politics, trying to maintain a classical elegance and distance from the mundane even as his old-school ways are being passed by the times. Fewer and fewer of the Spanish nobility continue to study fencing--and of those who do, increasingly they think of it as a sport rather than a matter of honor and ritual. Don Jaime has one student, former government minister Marquis Luis de Ayala, who seems to approach fencing with the right attitude, and that seems nearly enough. But when a beautiful woman walks into his salon and demands to be taught his unique attack, Don Jaime learns he must balance between tradition and his art. Because the woman, Senora Adela de Otero, loves fencing as much as he does.<br /><br />Spain continues to totter toward revolution and ancient debts begin to be called. When one of his students is murdered, and another becomes a suspect, Don Jaime tries to determine how much of the truth he can tell with honor, and maintaining honor appears to be something that just might be beyond his reach.<br /><br />Author Arturo Perez-Reverte combines a view of a dying art, a fascinating historical period, action, and a murder mystery in an excellent and almost poetical novel. The world's changes sweep over Don Jaime's concepts of honor, but he continues to think of the world in terms of his fencing--and always remains on the lookout for the error, the feint, and the chance to parry and ripost.<br /><br />You don't have to be a fencing fan to enjoy this novel. In fact, I'm happy to recommend it to anyone who wants to step back from the world for a couple of hours and think about things in a new way.	2005-09-26
48835:US	49115690	R1754A3RTIX7B7	0373750854	291580401	Downtown Debutante	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny, sexy and great. Highly recommended	Sneaky con-man Marvin Carter had taken Brenna Thompson for a ride--and stolen the gems she'd planned on using for the jewelry that would make her name. But the blondes are after Marvin, and this time they have 'help' in the person of sexy FBI agent Heath Parker. Heath makes Brenna's heart beat fast, but there's something about the way he listens to her stories about Marvin that tells her he isn't buying everything. Surely, though, he doesn't think she could be involved?<br /><br />Heath Parker knows Marvin Carter is a bad egg, but the FBI doesn't send out its agents to search for a low-life con-man with a thing for blondes. What it does send out its agents for is to recover stolen paintings worth many hundreds of thousands of dollars. And paintings like that aren't in Carter's league. Heath needs to watch out, though, because his chief suspect, spunky Brenna Thompson, is working his way into his heart.<br /><br />Heath uses the investigation of Marvin to work his way into Brenna's confidence, not knowing he might just work his way into her bed as well. The more he learns about the spitfire blonde, the harder he finds it to believe that she would really have stolen her parents' paintings. Still, the evidence seems unshakable and Heath has been burned before.<br /><br />Author Kara Lennox delivers another funny and sexy installment in her 'Blond Justice' series. Marvin can run, but he can't hide with the three intrepid blondes after him. Unfortunately for the women, it turns out that the men they count on for support and backup need a fair amount of training before they can really be of much assistance. Then again, that is half the fun.	2005-09-17
49750:US	49115690	R3QPTN9VPDNKS	0881502944	572961164	Take: A Detective Colin Harpur Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Early Harpur & Iles offers a lot to think about	Ron \\"Planner\\" Preston likes a nicely controlled job. He's made his criminal career out of arranging medium-sized heists, and making sure there's no danger. Inside information about a payroll lets him think he's got another perfect fit--and he lines up the muscle he needs to make it happen. But when the armored car company adds another man, and two more deliveries, all of a sudden, the job seems a little too much big-time. Still, Preston has a wife, a daughter, a mistress and another child who need taking care of--and then there's the young actress from 'Annie Get Your Gun.' Dare he risk a bigger job, the biggest of his criminal career? Or should he back down, and risk being thought as past it?<br /><br />Detective Colin Harpur has a feeling something is coming down, but his usual source is more worried about a missing girl than any big jobs. Still, a possibly bent cop is asking questions, seemingly ascertaining that the cops aren't looking. And Harpur wants to make sure that the cops will be looking at the right time. With occasional help and general hinderance from his boss, Assistant Chief Iles, Harpur tries to put logic and intuition on the line in a world where the criminals hold the cards and get to make the first play.<br /><br />As in all of his Harpur and Iles series, author Bill James provides a dark view of policing. The moral distinctions between cop and criminal are occasionally hard to see, with Harpur continuing an affair with the wife of one of his own cops and Iles prepared to destroy anyone who gets in his way and fixated on whether his wife might end her own affair now that she is pregnant.<br /><br />The aging criminal Ron Preston is clearly the most sympathetic character in the story--as he rationalizes his sexual outlets and his criminal activities, does his best to be a good family man, and encourages his fellow criminals to help support his wife's amateur theater works (where his wife acts along with Harpur's children). The reader is intially torn between hoping that the heist will succeed and hoping that it can be stopped.<br /><br />In this early Harpur and Iles story, the humor is a little less dark, and the cynicism a little less hard-biting than in some of the more recent stories, but the seeds are definitely planted. TAKE is not the best in this series, but it is an interesting and thought-provoking read. As is usual in James's stories, TAKE warrents a bit of extra time and thought--there's more here than might show with a fast read-through.intially torn between hoping that the heist will succeed and hoping that it can be stopped.  <br /> <br />In this early Harpur and Iles story, the humor is a little less dark, and the cynicism a little less hard-biting than in some of the more recent stories, but the seeds are definitely planted. TAKE is not the best in this series, but it is an interesting and thought-provoking read. As is usual in James's stories, TAKE warrents a bit of extra time and thought--there's more here than might show with a fast read-through.	2005-09-17
57948:US	49115690	R1LC4A30XMQZQC	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Weird but powerful stuff--I really liked this one	Magic has been dead in England for hundreds of years--the only magicians who remain being those who study about magic rather than actually performing it. But one man, Mr Norrell, is intent on returning magic to England, defeating the troublesome Napoleon, and proving that magic might serve the country. Norrell insists that the returned magic avoid any connection to fairies, and he takes special care to heap scorn on the reputed father of all magic in England, John Uskglass. Only once does he violate his rules, calling up a fairy to return the dead fiancee of the Prime Minister.<br /><br />Mr Norrell claims to wish magic to return to England, but he goes out of his way to make that difficult. The only way to learn magic is through books, but Norrell has gathered every book he can find and hides them from anyone. He sends his (semi-magical) servant through England exposing fraud. Still, when a second true magician appears, Mr Norrell cannot help his fascination and insists that the newcomer, Jonathan Strange, become his student. Of course, he doesn't go so far as to share his most important books with his student.<br /><br />Strange is initially content with the arrangement, but his experience in the military convinces him that Mr Norrell has taken a wrong path--that English magic is inseparable from John Uskglass. The two magicians quarrel and sever their relationship.<br /><br />In the meantime, the fairy Mr Norrell relied upon to raise the dead fiancee takes an interest in the minister's black servant, and in Strange's wife whom, he eventually kidnaps into his perpetual but grim world of Lost Hope and continual parties celebrating cruelty and death. Strange didn't pay much attention to his wife while she was present, but with her absent and thought dead, he seeks madness.<br /><br />JONATHAN STRANGE & MR NORRELL is a strange, but powerful novel. For much of the book, there really isn't a plot line. Rather, Mr Norrell and Jonathan Strange wander around England and the world discussing magic and working strange magics (Strange occasionally moves cities for the convenience of Wellington's army). Author Susanna Clarke takes the reader off into long digressions with Steven Black, the servant who captivates the fairy, Norrell's servant (who is possibly the most intriguing character in the story), and Mr. Seguntus, an academic magician who did not give up his studies after Norrell broke up the Magician Society of York.<br /><br />STRANGE is a literary work, with not a few parallels to English literature of the 18th century (long digressions, author notes to the reader, an omniscient point of view). Still, Clarke uses these devices rather than being limited by them, keeping the reader captivated.<br /><br />This is a massive work--close to 900 pages in the hardback version--and requires an investment in time to read. But the book definitely provides a high return on this investment. I recommend JONATHAN STRANGE & MR NORRELL highly.ngland and the world discussing magic and working strange magics (Strange occasionally moves cities for the convenience of Wellington's army). Author Susanna Clarke takes the reader off into long digressions with Steven Black, the servant who captivates the fairy, Norrell's servant (who is possibly the most intriguing character in the story), and Mr. Seguntus, an academic magician who did not give up his studies after Norrell broke up the Magician Society of York.  <br /> <br />STRANGE is a literary work, with not a few parallels to English literature of the 18th century (long digressions, author notes to the reader, an omniscient point of view). Still, Clarke uses these devices rather than being limited by them, keeping the reader captivated.  <br /> <br />This is a massive work--close to 900 pages in the hardback version--and requires an investment in time to read. But the book definitely provides a high return on this investment. I recommend JONATHAN STRANGE & MR NORRELL highly.	2005-09-13
64075:US	49115690	R30Z3D97UK11MH	0670034061	634172560	The Right Madness	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Powerful but confusing and strange	When his best friend asks him to look into an apparently minor theft, private detective CW Sughrue resists. But Mac insists and seems genuinely worried that the loss of his counseling tapes might lead to blackmail--or worse. Sughrue's investigations take a turn for the worse when the suspects start to die unexpectedly. There has to be a connection, but Sughrue can't figure it out--but he keeps worrying after what few leads he can find. When Mac becomes a suspect in another suspect's murder, Sughrue vows to continue on--despite having a missing, or even dead, client.<br /><br />Sughrue's investigation takes him into America's underside. He turns to alcohol, cigarettes, and drugs in an effort to keep his sanity in a world where sanity seems more of a handicapp than an advantage. Meanwhile, his newly long-distance marriage is crumbling and Sugrue discovers a strange knack for having beautiful women throw themselves at him. Some of that throwing is sexual, some involves attacks and pain, and some is a weird mix of the two.<br /><br />Author James Crumley maintains a hard-boiled and attitude-filled style throughout this fascinating, but frustrating story. Literally none of the characters is really admirable, let alone heroic. But Sughrue's gradual disillusioning would have had a greater impact if he'd been shown to hold many illusions in the first place. Similarly, the mystery itself sees as disjointed as Sughrue's drug-baffled mind. It is a credit to Crumley's wordsmithing skills that he is able to maintain reader interest in what is a sometimes frustrating read.<br /><br />Fans of hard-boiled detective fiction will find a lot to enjoy in THE RIGHT MADNESS. It's worth the read, but I would have liked to see a bit more consistent logic in Sughrue's search for the truth.	2005-09-09
68988:US	49115690	R2G0JS1IV7FXNV	0345476425	307540325	Hot Ice: A Novel	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Engaging but flawed romantic suspense	When it comes to jewel theft, Taylor Kincaid is the best--and Huntington (Hunt) St. John needs the best. The private anti-terrorist organization he works for has learned that super-Christian terrorist Jose Morales has hidden the codes for his secret base in a safe so secure that it's supposed to be unbreakable. Hunt needs someone to get him those disks so badly, he's willing to break a known criminal out of prison to help.<br /><br />Taylor responds to Hunt physically, but that doesn't mean she trusts him. She needs the diamonds she stole from Morales--and isn't convinced by Hunt's story that he works for the good-guys. Isn't that what everyone says?<br /><br />When Taylor escapes him, Hunt is desperate. Time is running out, and Morales plans a strike far bigger than 9/11, wiping out the entire city of Las Vegas in his efforts to eliminate sin and bring about the kingdom of god. It doesn't help that he gets excited every time he gets close to Taylor--everyone in the T-FLAC private anti-terrorist organization knows that women are the curse. Still, the two need to work together, which isn't a problem when they learn that they really are on the same side.<br /><br />Heading off the threat sends them into a reconstructed mine in South Africa--a mine that has been transformed into the seven circles of Dante's Hell. If they'd still had the codes, it would have been merely difficult--but with only two of the five disks, they rely on Taylor's safecracking and Hunt's macho dere-doing to survive.<br /><br />Author Cherry Adair's fast-paced style and steamy sensuality propell the reader through the story. I found myself, however, distracted from the story by the improbability of Adair's scenario and by the drawn-out misunderstandings between Hunt and Taylor--especially that at the end of the story. Morales's scheme for 'world domination' is hard to understand, but not nearly as hard as was a second terrorist group (the Black Rose)'s plan. The multibillion dollar transformation of a mine into the seven circles of Hell is interesting and consistent with the crazy but Christian Morales, but the whole disk and code thing didn't seem to work. If Morales needed the codes and didn't have them all, how was he supposed to get his army of thugs into the pit to face Hunt and his T-FLAC buddies? And how did the Black Rose terrorists get down?<br /><br />HOT ICE had a lot of potential and it's definitely worth the read--but Adair missed too many chances to make the adventure and the romance more compelling and give the reader a bigger payoff for an oversized suspension of disbelief.ansformation of a mine into the seven circles of Hell is interesting and consistent with the crazy but Christian Morales, but the whole disk and code thing didn't seem to work. If Morales needed the codes and didn't have them all, how was he supposed to get his army of thugs into the pit to face Hunt and his T-FLAC buddies? And how did the Black Rose terrorists get down?  <br /> <br />HOT ICE had a lot of potential and it's definitely worth the read--but Adair missed too many chances to make the adventure and the romance more compelling and give the reader a bigger payoff for an oversized suspension of disbelief.	2005-09-07
70451:US	49115690	R1CAYRKYVORXZ1	0670034231	929027984	The Big Over Easy: A Nursery Crime	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Laugh out loud moments in a well-done story	Jack Spratt has been stuck in the Nursery Crime Division of the Reading police department for years--and now, after his failed prosecution of the three pigs for murdering the big bad wolf, Spratt is in trouble. But a last-minute case gives him a chance. The death of Humpty Dumpty is clearly nursery rhyme material--and it's something that Spratt can sink his teeth into. Assisted by new, and questionably loyal, Detective Sergeant (and official sidekick wannabe) Mary Mary, Spratt looks into evidence that Dumpty's death might not have been a drunken accident resulting from sitting on a wall, but rather, murder.<br /><br />Spratt's investigation takes him through a wealth of fairy tale material. Prosecutions of Rumplestiltskin, the cons of The Emperor's New Clothing,' Jack's giant-killing past and the sad death of his ex-wife (who ate way too much fat) all play a role. But the investigation of Dumpty's questionable past, his wild way with women, and his investment schemes form the center of the book--as does the evolving relationship between Spratt and DS Mary.<br /><br />Author Jasper Fforde steps away from his Thursday Next universe, but not very far. In fact, mixed in with the fairy tale and mythology references (Prometheus, in England hoping to win political asylum) are references to Fforde's own works. THE BIG OVER EASY has some wonderful laugh-out-loud moments, provides a nicely slanted look at the way detective mysteries are written, and manages to abuse every cliche of the detective genre.<br /><br />EASY is just a little less than the sum of its parts, but that doesn't keep it from being a highly enjoyable read.	2005-09-06
73241:US	49115690	R19EGHV5FSPEQV	0060528079	704849535	Good Morning Midnight	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting English police procedural	It's a strange death, but it seems indisputable that it's a suicide. There's a locked door, a bare toe with a shotgun, and no extraneous fingerprints to be found. The only problem is, Pal Maciver has precisely duplicated the suicide of his father ten years earlier. Now, what kind of man would do that? Although his boss tells him to rule the death a suicide and turn over the case to the uniformed services, DCI Peter Pascoe senses something he can't quite put his finger on. There's the dead man's family--all weird and definitely equipped with both money and hatred. Then there are the little details of the case. Two glasses are clean while the others are dusty--and where is the bottle the dead man had been drinking from. When he learns that his boss had been in charge of the investigation of the father's suicide, Pascoe is even more torn.<br /><br />Pascoe's investigation turns up sexual misdeeds, lies, and brushes on the corners of a large company that just might become the next recipient of the American Securities and Exchange Commission's attentions. Finally, even his boss, Detective Superintendent Dalziel, is forced to agree that there's something going on--and that they need to continue the investigation.<br /><br />Author Reginald Hill spins an interesting take on the classic 'locked room' mystery. Readers know from the start that Pal's death was a suicide, but we're still pulled into the investigation--and the mystery that lurks beneath the mystery.<br /><br />Hill tosses out plenty of hints of what Pascoe is likely to find, eventually. Too many hints, I thought. In fact, that might be the key weakness in an otherwise fascinating book--the reader knows too much, too soon, and spends too much time waiting for the police to catch up.<br /><br />Still, GOOD MORNING, MIDNIGHT makes for an entertaining read as Pascoe and Dalziel try to game one another, each trying to bring about some hint of justice in their own way, but finding the other obstructing what they do.t they do.	2005-09-05
76206:US	49115690	RVLL67VESHCNI	0345479556	833707839	Heart's Desire: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Funny, emotional, with vivid characters. A winner	After a year in college, Hallie Palmer has all summer to figure out how to pay for her next year at college. Because if she can't come up with some cash, she'll need to drop out after a semester and work full time. Fortunately, her foster father, Bernard, offers to let her work in his garden again--and a high-stakes poker game has come to Cosgrove County, Ohio--and Hallie is something of a gambler. But both of these offers come with strings. Bernard has broken up with his longtime lover, Gil, and is despondent to the point of playing suicidal opera arias. And the late-night poker games come with a bit of a moral dilemma attached.<br /><br />Then there's the virginity issue. Hallie thinks she may be a sex-maniac because she can't stop thinking about sex. There's the boyfriend from school--the one she was just at the point of having sex with. Then there's the ex-boyfriend from high-school. The one who seems to have more girlfriends than he can shake a stick at. And the nerdy future Bill Gates who's had a crush on her since fourth grade. Finally, there's the town bookie's cute grandson--even if he is math impaired and seems to read and write stories about death (and Bernard picks him up with his gaydar). Between the difficulties of finding a suitable guy and Hallie's own ambivalent feelings toward sex, love, and forever, she starts to wonder if she's going to be carrying her virginity into old age.<br /><br />Author Laura Pedersen has created a houseful of delightful and vivid characters. Bernard, his larger-than-life mother (who is always ready to protest for justice and point out the Unitarians who have served America and the world so well), Bernard's ex-lover, Gil, the alcoholic chimpanzee, his mother's Italian lover, and even the town cop are all fully realized and fun. Hallie's life is full as she attempts to deal with the people in her life--helping them, but also suffering from an over-abundance of their attempts to help her out as well.<br /><br />HEART'S DESIRE has a strong chick-lit feel--it's very much the story of a young woman's growth, with a strong element of humor as well as solid emotional content. It's the kind of book that makes you stay up way too late at night--reading just one more chapter. I'm very happy to recommend HEART'S DESIRE highly.T'S DESIRE has a strong chick-lit feel--it's very much the story of a young woman's growth, with a strong element of humor as well as solid emotional content. It's the kind of book that makes you stay up way too late at night--reading just one more chapter. I'm very happy to recommend HEART'S DESIRE highly.	2005-09-03
78356:US	49115690	RVPE0LU8LMSJX	0441012833	868878948	Academ's Fury (Codex Alera, Book 2)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Exciting adventure, solid world-building	Alera is threatened. It's aging First Lord has named no heir--and the major lords grow restless, waiting for a chance to strike, to seize the throne for themselves. Meanwhile, external enemies push the First Lord hard with continued storms that sap his strength and make him less able to respond to hidden threats. And there is a hidden threat. An alien race has taken root. With its ability to take over the bodies of its victims, the alien swarm-race intends to rot Alera from within--and then to take over the entire world. Against these forces stand only the aging First Lord, his page Tavi and Tavi's two best friends and fellow students, and Tavi's aunt and uncle. Tavi's uncle must confront one nest of the alien vord while Tavi's aunt races to the capital for rescue--only to find assassins, with the First Lord in no position to help.<br /><br />Author Jim Butcher creates a fascinating alternate Earth--a land where the forces of nature are personified into beings (Furies) of power that certain humans can call upon, and a land where scholars cast scorn on any who believe that civilization was even possible before the discovery of the great furies. The power of the furies has stiltified scientific progress and war is still fought with legions, sword, and spear--along with magic.<br /><br />Tavi, in particular, makes a vivid character. His school traumas, made worse by the absence of any Fury talent whatsoever, provides a backdrop on which the greater political struggle takes place. Butcher's military scenes ring true, with legions going up against alien bugs, and with Tavi's uncle, Bernard, wrestling with his failure to protect the very people he is sworn to serve. I found Butcher less convincing with his female characters--Isana (Tavi's aunt) being whiny and annoying and Amara (Bernard's lover) not much better. The mysterious Kitai is a welcomed exception, being an intriguing and capable female.<br /><br />ACADEM'S FURY is compelling reading--and Butcher's smooth writing, strong world-building, and continual danger and adventure, add up to an addictive mix.th writing, strong world-building, and continual danger and adventure, add up to an addictive mix.	2005-09-02
85571:US	49115690	R1AISB249PWFAL	1589395115	273142803	Quest of the Seal Bearers Book 1: The Warriors Return	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Flawed but fun story	With the long-lost Book of War, wizard Davron can summon creatures who cannot be killed. He invades the mountain command of the world's leader and sends the legal government into exile, then consolidates his gains. But that world is only the beginning of Davron's plans. Using magical powers, he hopes to expand from one plane of existance to the next, until all of creation is under his control. The Book of War was defeated once before, and the planet leader, Fantasma, knows that he'll have to assemble the descendents of the original warriors who defeated the book thousands of years earlier. But the descendents aren't on the planet at all--instead, they're on Earth.<br /><br />The Action and Adventure Club of Greengale, USA, is planning its big annual adventure. They agree to attend a fantasy-adventure resort, but Fantasma's power sends their plane into a crash landing in an uncharted island. Once there, Fantasma explains his dilemma, including the fact that the Action and Adventure Club contains the descendents of the original heroes. The group is sent to Fantasma's world, but something goes wrong--and they are scattered across both time and space. Gradually, they seek to find one another, facing attacks by Davron's armies and Book of War creatures. Worse, Davron captures one of the members and somehow converts her, making her his wife.<br /><br />Author A. W. G. Coleman has many of the ingredients of a successful story. The fish-out-of-water Earth humans in a magic realm is always popular. The powerful and destructive enemy who is aided by treachery in the good-guy camp generally creates the basis for some interesting adventure. And it's obvious that Coleman has put a lot of thought into his world-building with such fun (if weird) innovations as a place where everyone becomes comics, two incompatible forms of magic power, and thousands of years of history. Coleman's prose is workmanlike enough, not distracting the reader from the story.<br /><br />A few flaws keep QUEST OF THE SEAL BEARERS: THE WARRIORS RETURN from reaching its potential. The large number of club members, with frequent scene changes between them, makes it difficult to keep track of who is doing what, or to learn enough about the characters to care about their problems. If Coleman had intended QUEST to fit into the humor class of SF/Fantasy, he needed to push the envelope a little harder and give a few more laugh-out-loud moments. If that wasn't his intent, it's hard to understand why he included some of the settings and action. Then there's excessive good fortune of the school-aged club members, coupled with incompetence on the part of the enemy. It's hard to take the adventure seriously when the enemy is so incompetent.<br /><br />QUEST comes close to being truly enjoyable. It has a lot of positive energy and ideas. Unfortunately, Coleman doesn't quite pull them together into a meaningful whole. Still, QUEST makes a light fun read.ws keep QUEST OF THE SEAL BEARERS: THE WARRIORS RETURN from reaching its potential. The large number of club members, with frequent scene changes between them, makes it difficult to keep track of who is doing what, or to learn enough about the characters to care about their problems. If Coleman had intended QUEST to fit into the humor class of SF/Fantasy, he needed to push the envelope a little harder and give a few more laugh-out-loud moments. If that wasn't his intent, it's hard to understand why he included some of the settings and action. Then there's excessive good fortune of the school-aged club members, coupled with incompetence on the part of the enemy. It's hard to take the adventure seriously when the enemy is so incompetent.  <br /> <br />QUEST comes close to being truly enjoyable. It has a lot of positive energy and ideas. Unfortunately, Coleman doesn't quite pull them together into a meaningful whole. Still, QUEST makes a light fun read.	2005-08-29
93002:US	49115690	R6QA3UHP18SPM	0765307235	660803801	The Destruction of the Books (The Rover)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What happens when the world's knowledge is locked away?	Ex-Librarian and Dweller Juhg has left the great library that holds all of the books rescued from an evil warlord's attempt to destroy all knowledge, seeking some way of escaping, holding onto vague dreams of rescuing his enslaved family. But when he picks up a rumor that there is a book on a ship of goblins, he knows his duty--to recover that book and return it to the library. If that duty means that the sailors hold him responsible, that is a part of the price he is willing to pay. But returning the book is only the beginning of the adventure. Because the goblins and their allies have never given up on their attempt to discover where the great library his hidden--and will do anything to destroy it and all it holds.<br /><br />Unfortunately for the sake of knowledge, the Dwellers most responsible for providing librarians, for creating new copies of the ancient books, for translating forgotten languages into the common language of the day, are increasingly too busy eating, having children, and squabbling over money to do their duties to the library. Despite his intention to stay away, Juhg is drawn back into the politics and danger of the library itself.<br /><br />Author Mel Odom starts with the standard fantasy world--elves, dwarves, hobbit-like 'dwellers,' goblins, wizards, and the rest, and gives it a twist with the library. Juhg's analysis of the problems caused by the library--and it's decision to continue its monopoly on books--shows a level of thought and insight that is rare in fantasy. In a world where anti-intellectualism is often key to being elected, and where books are used for decoration as much as for reading, Odom's points ring true.<br /><br />Of course, none of that would mean much if Odom didn't deliver a bang-up adventure. And in THE DESTRUCTION OF THE BOOKS, he does, in fact, deliver a superior story.	2005-08-25
93170:US	49115690	R3PUSMXZJ4EO2R	0312307934	790054717	Murder on the Salsette: A Mystery (Shipboard Detectives Masefield)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Snobbery, imperialism and murder--on the Bombay/Aden run	Cruise ship detectives George Dillman and Genevieve Masefield, newly married but pretending to be single as they mingle with the rich and famous on pre-World War I cruise liners, are heading from Bombay in British India toward Aden. The Salsette is a fast and beautiful ship--and the purser assures them that there should be no problems. Unfortunately, this is not the case. A passenger's cabin is burglarized, purses are lifted, and a man is murdered in his stateroom. All of a sudden, all the pressure is on Dillman and Masefield to solve the crimes.<br /><br />First, though, they need to determine whether there is a connection between the murder and the robberies. One thing for certain, someone did rob the dead man. But there are other motives for murder. The dead man had done his best to make enemies and, in fact, was visibly nervous before he was killed.<br /><br />Author Conrad Allen makes his pre-WWI world of affluent imperialists come alive. Travelers worry about class, about who is satisfactory to be seen with, and about who might be properly snubbed. As an American with egalitarian leanings, Dillman comes in for more than his share of snubs. Beautiful (and English) Masefield is more accepted by the elite--although not by the first victim of the thief--a woman who definitely prefers men. Snobbery takes a nasty turn when it comes to how the English relate to the Indians, both back in India, and those who are traveling on the Salsette.<br /><br />Conrad Allen provides a full serving of red herring, but I found this mystery to be a bit easy, and the social commentary to be a little repetitious. Still, it was pleasant to see Dillman and Masefield continuing to solve crimes together. The teenaged Lois Greenwood makes a charming character and the steward, Paulo Morelli adds a comic touch. Fans of the series will definitely want to see what Dillman and Masefield are up to now.	2005-08-25
99908:US	49115690	R393Q8SMVQZOVX	0312271204	795284084	A Gladiator Dies Only Once: The Further Investigations of Gordianus the Finder	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Nice addition to Gordianus, with some real gems	The Roman Republic is in its last days and all manner of crime festers. When Roman nobles need truly discreet investigative services, they often turn to Gordianus, the finder. Gordianus follows leads where they take him--to the palaces of the oligarchy warring for control of the dying Republic, to the dives inhabited by slaves and freemen. There he discovers what every Roman knows--slaves know all the secrets, and that evil comes as often from those who want for nothing as it does from those who are desperately in need.<br /><br />A GLADIATOR DIES ONLY ONCE is a collection of short mysteries undertaken by Gordianus over the course of his career. The Consul's Wife tells of a strange plot tied up with a rebel general who is attempting to create a new Roman Republic in Spain. If A Cyclops Could Vanish in the Blink of an Eye is a charming interlude with strange disappearances. The White Fawn takes Gordianus to the rebellion in Spain. Something Fishy in Pompeii uncovers commercial espionage. Archimedes's Tomb deals with Cicero and Archimedes's great discovery of water displacement. Death by Eros describes the murder of a town's golden boy. A Gladiator Dies Only Once, the story that gives the collection its name, tells of a pre-Spartacus gladiator organization with some strange practices. Poppy and the Poisoned Cake examines the role of the Roman Censor--both census-taker and guardian of morals. The Cherries of Lucullus looks at a strange affliction--and the question of whether humans possess an ability to determine truth, without regard to the known senses.<br /><br />As with many collections, GLADIATOR is somewhat uneven. Several of the stories were clearly dashed off based on an amusing idea. Others probe more deeply into the decline of the Republic than they do into crime. Some, including the final story, The Cherries of Lucullus, are deeply moving.<br /><br />Author Steven Saylor offers a fascinating view into the late Republic. While the mystery element in the short stories is sometimes compromised by the short story format (how many red herrings can viably be introduced in such a short number of pages), GLADIATOR gives the reader something to think about, some insights into the dying days of Republican Rome (when most people believed that the Republic would endure forever), and even some insights into people at large.<br /><br />Gordianus is more fully developed in Saylor's novel-length works, but GLADIATOR is a welcome addition to the opus.the short stories is sometimes compromised by the short story format (how many red herrings can viably be introduced in such a short number of pages), GLADIATOR gives the reader something to think about, some insights into the dying days of Republican Rome (when most people believed that the Republic would endure forever), and even some insights into people at large.  <br /> <br />Gordianus is more fully developed in Saylor's novel-length works, but GLADIATOR is a welcome addition to the opus.	2005-08-21
101941:US	49115690	R14M4IS5X2FM7W	0765313871	329190161	Alector's Choice (Corean Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fascinating worldbuilding, but maybe too much military	The Alectors have nearly exhausted the life force in their primary world and are desperately trying to ready a new world for the translation to homeland. To succeed, they need to increase the life-mass on a formerly cold and barren planet. But the locals (not really native since they were set there by the Alectors) have their own priorities and will violate the ecological rules for money, whenever they get the chance. To prevent a possible revolt in a remote island, Alector Colonel Dainyl, and a battalion of Cadmian mounted rifles, including Captain Mykel are sent to observe and put down any troubles.<br /><br />It doesn't take long for Dainyl to realize that the troubles could only have been caused by high-ranking Alectors. The locals have too many weapons, and the commanding major seems to have a magical block that prevents him from acting intelligently. Incompetence by the Cadmians, mixed with irrational beliefs by the locals results in the very revolt that Dainyl had hoped to avoid--and just when Dainyl had been called back to headquarters for training and debriefing.<br /><br />With Dainyl, the flying pteridons, and the power weapons gone, the rebellion seems to stand every chance of succeeding. But Captain Mykel develops a talent-supported ability to hunt down and kill rebels. While his moral sensibilities are offended, and the development of his talent puts him in danger from his supposed Alector allies, he continues to pursue the rebels, wiping out company after company of poorly trained dragoons with his own slowly depleting company.<br /><br />With ALECTOR'S CHOICE, author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. takes a straightforward military approach, sending Mykel after hundreds of swarming rebels while Dainyl attempts to determine who might be behind the rebellion--and their motives. Unfortunately for the reader, Dainyl never quite succeeds in determining motive, and Mykel's cold-blooded hunting down and killing of rebels gets a bit repetitious after a while, even though both Dainyl and Mykel are sympathetic characters.<br /><br />Modesitt is at his best when he develops characters we really care about, places them in extreme danger, and has them grow, discovering both power and self-knowledge that keeps them alive. The military side of ALECTOR'S CHOICE consumes so much of the story's energy that I fear Modesitt short-changed the characters.<br /><br />While ALECTOR'S CHOICE falls short of the very best of Modesitt's work, it is nevertheless an entertaining story--and a fascinating look at world-building, both from the standpoing of the science fiction reader, and from the standpoint of the Alectors as they attempt to create a new world from the frozen beginnings of a planet.en though both Dainyl and Mykel are sympathetic characters.  <br /> <br />Modesitt is at his best when he develops characters we really care about, places them in extreme danger, and has them grow, discovering both power and self-knowledge that keeps them alive. The military side of ALECTOR'S CHOICE consumes so much of the story's energy that I fear Modesitt short-changed the characters.  <br /> <br />While ALECTOR'S CHOICE falls short of the very best of Modesitt's work, it is nevertheless an entertaining story--and a fascinating look at world-building, both from the standpoing of the science fiction reader, and from the standpoint of the Alectors as they attempt to create a new world from the frozen beginnings of a planet.	2005-08-20
106075:US	49115690	R1SXV9ON41NUYI	0060195738	787308754	Bethlehem Road Murder: A Michael Ohayon Mystery (Michael Ohayon Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fascinating Jerusalem setting adds interest	Police Chief Superintendent Michael Ohayon is called in to investigate a murdered young woman, her body found in his ex-girlfriend's under rennovation apartment. Because the victim's face was smashed, identification takes a while, but the Jerusalem neighborhood is tight and the missing woman's identity becomes known. But Zahara Bashari was a complex person. She was pregnant, had recently been given an apartment by her boss, was highly active in a movement to preserve the culture of Yemeni Jews, and had been stalked by a young neighbor girl who used magic in an attempt to take Zahara's place among the beautiful. Of course, the Intifada is an ever-present threat and both police and the neighbors are quick to point their fingers at Arabs in the neighborhood. Much better them than one of their own.<br /><br />Author Batya Gur creates a compelling sense of place in the Jerusalem neighborhood where old hatreds and fears have festered since Israel's founding. The city itself, the creepy atmosphere of fear and hatred caused by the violence cycle between Jew and Arab, and the antagonism between European, Asian, and African Jews all come to stark life in Gur's prose.<br /><br />The character of Nessia, the young girl filled with self-hatred and with a desperate attempt to conjur a new world for herself is strong and compelling. For me, few of the other characters really stood out, however. Even Michael Ohayon, with his bland and lazy unwillingness to allow his lieutenants to persecute suspicious Arabs too closely, his unexplored fascination with the rediscovery of his teenaged love, and his confused relationship with his fellow police officers didn't really stand out for me.<br /><br />I love reading mysteries about worlds outside my own--and Batya Gur's Jerusalem setting is certainly that. Gur's descriptions, the explanation of never-forgotten feuds between European and non-European Jews, and the backdrop of Jewish/Arab hatred certainly makes for compelling reading.	2005-08-18
109748:US	49115690	R3IZG00ONSPK54	031233723X	680498206	SPQR IX: The Princess and the Pirates	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming historical mystery	After two terms as Aedile, Decius Caecilius Metellus is ready to stand for praetor--a government job with the clout to merit a substantial pro-praetorship and give Decius a chance to pay off some of his debts. Instead, the senate sends him to Cyprus to root out the pirates that, years after Pompey last subdued them, are making a comeback in the eastern Mediterranean. In Cyprus, Decius finds Roman bureaucrats, busy looting the country, Greek merchants seeking their fortunes, a temple that claims to be the birthplace of the goddess Aphrodite herself, and a woman who enjoys sensual delights just a little too much. Also, the Princess Cleopatra--who just happens to have the best warship in the area.<br /><br />It doesn't take long for Decius to realize that the pirates have help from someone important in Cyprus, but when the governor is killed, Decius realizes that the conspiracy reaches higher into the Roman circles than he had imagined. Still, it's only when his wife and his friend Milo arrive that Decius finally puts things together. Of course, staying alive long enough to present the evidence is the real trick.<br /><br />Author John Maddox Roberts spins an intriguing and fascinating tale of the dying days of Republican Rome. Caesar is in Gaul, Pompey is still powerful but a declining light, and the traditional Roman oligarchs still scheme and play their political games while the 'new men' secure wealth by trade and by exploiting the conquered and allied people. Egypt remains the huge prize, so rich that any Roman general to take it becomes the de-facto favorite as the ruler of the world.<br /><br />Roberts' Decius makes a fine protagonist with his combination of Roman virtues and unRoman introspection--along with a decided weakness for wine and attraction toward women who aren't his wife. Cleopatra, the Princess in the book's title, is still young, but shows flashes of the energy that twice bring her close to becoming co-ruler of the known world. THE PRINCESS AND THE PIRATES is an enjoyable find for anyone who appreciates historical mysteries.SS AND THE PIRATES is an enjoyable find for anyone who appreciates historical mysteries.	2005-08-15
113905:US	49115690	R2GOVOLZ6NPHXB	0786937335	93302377	Empire of Blood: The Minotaur Wars, Volume Three	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solid conclusion to fine series	The minotaur rebels, flush from a great victory over their empire, are forced to turn to the traditional minotaur god to protect them from disease as the god of decay strikes back. But one victory over a legion far from the empire's center, does not make for a successful revolt. When attempts to negotiate with the one honorable member of the enemy empire, Maritia, fail, the nephew of the murdered ex-emperor, Faros, realizes he must strike directly into the heart of the empire--to eliminate the evil temple and control the capitol.<br /><br />Faros's efforts are helped by the minotaur Queen's decision to centralize all power and goods distribution with the temple. Her fears and religion compell her to create new enemies--out of minotaurs who would be loyal. Still, the sacrifices she makes for her god give her, and her favored son, incredible power--power that Faros seems unlikely to be able to stand against.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Golgren, leader of the ogre clan, is finally repelled by the Queen's bizarre decisionmaking and breaks his alliance with the minotaurs.<br /><br />The moral ambivalence that lent interest to the earlier books in this series is now gone as the clash between rebel and empire also becomes a clash between good and evil, and a battle between the gods themselves. Still, author Richard A. Knaak's fast-paced writing keeps the story moving forward, engaging the reader's interest in Faros's battles with himself, with his god, and with the forces of the empire. Golgren plays only a minor role in the story, but he is the most interesting character, ambitious, willing to do whatever it takes to pursue his ambition, but not at all unsympathetic. I'm sure we'll see more of him in future stories of minotaur and ogre.<br /><br />If you read the earlier novels in this series, you'll definitely want to pick up EMPIRE to see how Knaak brings the forces of rebellion and empire together in a great clash at the capital city's walls. Readers who haven't yet read the earlier stories will probably want to pick those up as doing so will give the reader an appreciation of why this battle matters.yet read the earlier stories will probably want to pick those up as doing so will give the reader an appreciation of why this battle matters.	2005-08-13
115306:US	49115690	RMXRHVG0MYNJY	0345461282	207585563	The Light-years Beneath My Feet	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Enjoyable SF comedy	Freed from the slavers, former Chicago commodities trader Marcus Walker, George the Dog (now enhanced with speech), Braouk the Tuuqalian, and Sequi the K'eremu have a comfortable existance, but all of them want to return to their homes. In the meantime, Walker seeks a role that will allow him to find some meaning in his alien existance. After all, Braouk is sought after by those who admire his eternal war-epics, George is simply lovable, being a dog, and Sequi is self-reliant in her confidence (often well-justified) that she is smarter than anyone around her. But Walker is a human and needs positive strokes. He comes up with the idea of becoming a chef--in a galaxy where foods have to be martialed and persuaded into service.<br /><br />Walker's increasing expertise in the kitchen nets him a job offer by a star-crossing race much further out the Milky Way's spiral arm, but is it the right arm, or will Walker and his friends be moving away from home? In the end, it doesn't matter--at least they're moving and they haven't had any other offers. The four set off to a world where warfare is a game, played by 'traditional' rules that restrict military technology to a medieval level, but give newscasters sophisticated broadcast equipment to let everyone in the cities stay in tune with the battles.<br /><br />Although Walker's cooking skills had proven valuable in getting them started in their travels, they also make him too valuable to simply let him walk away. His hosts don't exactly tell him he can't leave, but they tell their astronomers not to fast-track his requests for help in locating Earth. Walker decides to get involved in local politics, and in the 'traditional military' side of society. Walker's football-based strategy leads to strange results--but can it get him home? And what to do about the pesky slavers who seem intent on recovering Walker and friends, no matter what the costs?<br /><br />Author Alan Dean Foster pokes loving fun at the traditional fish-out-of-water story, having Walker engage in some truly weird tactics. His super-intelligent but annoying alien Sequi is a nice touch, and George the Dog remains one of the most attractive characters in a science fiction story. THE LIGHT-YEARS BENEATH MY FEET suffers a bit from being the middle book in a trilogy. We don't have the getting to know you as the characters learn to deal with each other, or a grand resolution as I'd expect in the final novel. Still, LIGHT-YEARS is entertaining light reading.<br /><br />If you're looking to decompress from a rough day at the office, or maybe from an involved and convoluted Stephenson or Cheryth SF tale, LIGHT-YEARS would be a great choice. You don't need to read the previous book in the series (LOST AND FOUND), but it would enhance the experience.Walker engage in some truly weird tactics. His super-intelligent but annoying alien Sequi is a nice touch, and George the Dog remains one of the most attractive characters in a science fiction story. THE LIGHT-YEARS BENEATH MY FEET suffers a bit from being the middle book in a trilogy. We don't have the getting to know you as the characters learn to deal with each other, or a grand resolution as I'd expect in the final novel. Still, LIGHT-YEARS is entertaining light reading.     If you're looking to decompress from a rough day at the office, or maybe from an involved and convoluted Stephenson or Cheryth SF tale, LIGHT-YEARS would be a great choice. You don't need to read the previous book in the series (LOST AND FOUND), but it would enhance the experience.	2005-08-12
124608:US	49115690	RPMT3MCDIT0PC	0451460278	357514576	Dead Beat: A Novel of The Dresden Files	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wise-cracking gumshoe wizard. Cool concept, fine execution	When a vampire queen blackmails wizard Harry Dresden into finding her the magical book of a dead but unmorned necromancer, Dresden knows something dangerous is going to hit his beloved Chicago. He doesn't guess, though, how very bad it's going to be--until the disciples of necromancer start hunting Dresden down. What he learns is that the necromancers have discovered a way to call down a huge river of power--so much power that it will give one of them the capabilities of a god. Given the nature of people who decide to become necromancers, this is bad news for the entire city of Chicago. Unfortunately, the only people Harry can call upon for help have their own problems--and think Dresden might be part of the problem rather than the solution.<br /><br />Dresden spends most of the story gathering clues, battling with individual necromancers and their hosts of ghouls, zombies, and ghosts, and worrying about the people and magical beings he's taken responsibility for. Like an old-fashioned private eye story, on which The Dresden Files seem modeled, the story terminates in a huge bang as the outnumbered and outgunned Dresden must battle evil, his supposed allies, and the demon who has taken up residence in his own mind.<br /><br />This is the seventh book in this series, but my first exposure to The Dresden Files. I quite enjoyed the mix of wise-cracking gumshoe detective with urban fantasy. Author Jim butcher does a good job laying plants and payoffs, gives us a perpetually frustrated protagonist who can't quite get up the nerve to ask his 'friend' out on a date, and makes the mix of martial arts and magic work. I would have liked to see Butcher do more with the morally ambivalent Kumori, but perhaps this is a character we'll see in a future story. I hope so.	2005-08-08
125060:US	49115690	RTGKUQZD66CSL	0821778838	105706066	Risk Everything (Zebra Debut)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Revenge in medieval Scotland	Rolf MacDaidh is consumed with his need for revenge. Since he returned home to find his dying wife and newborn son, he's plotted his revenge on the man who stole his happiness. Kidnapping Meghan of Blackthorn--the pride of Blackthorn--is just the start of the vengence he requires. Next, he'll tame her, bed her, and claim a son out of her. Rolf knows the taming will not be easy--he's known Meghan much of his life--but he's driven enough to make it happen.<br /><br />Meghan loved Rolf as a teen--so much that she has refused all offers for her hand. But Rolf has changed. She battles him as best she can, using all the weapons at her disposal and winning the respect and affection of Rolf's clan. But Rolf has an uncanny ability to detect her plans, to hunt her down when she attempts escape, and to make her body quiver at his touch. When Rolf offers an apparent compromise, Meghan snatches at it, little guessing it is merely part of Rolf's extended plan for revenge.<br /><br />Author Sophia Johnson marks her debut with a fast-moving medieval historical. Meghan and Rolf are obviously soulmates, but Rolf's need for vengence creates a rift that even Meghan can see no crossing. Johnson teases with just a hint of paranormal--could it be that one of the secondary characters is from the modern age? Fans of this book will definitely be looking for the sequels (prequels?) to find out more about Meghan's extended family and her strange upbringing.<br /><br />If you're looking for a powerful Scottish lord who finds himself tamed by his spitfire captive, you'll definitely want to get your hands on RISK EVERYTHING.	2005-08-07
128624:US	49115690	R1O2N47G662QP2	0821779303	639782057	What A Woman Needs (Zebra Debut)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sexy historical romantic suspense	Stuart Drake needs an heiress. Decades from securing his title and ancestral properties, Stuart has bought a nice little estate--but now his father has cut off his income and Stuart stands to lose everything--unless he can find an heiress and marry her. Fortunately, there are plenty of heiresses around and Susan Tratter seems like an ideal candidate. Admittedly he doesn't love her, but she seems infatuated with him and she's pleasant enough, and rich. That is a better basis than most marriages. There's only the simple matter of persuading Susan's aunt.<br /><br />Charlotte Griffolino, Susan's young aunt, knows fortune-seekers too well. She recognizes Stuart's game immediately and will do whatever it takes to protect her niece. What it takes starts with ruining his reputation by repeating London gossip and, when Stuart breaks into her home in an attempt to recover his engagement ring, Charlotte repeats the favor. From there, things get sexy in a hurry. But there's something else going on--someone has tracked Charlotte to England, is rifling through her things, and absconds with Susan. Now Charlotte has no one to turn to except Stuart--the man she did everything to destroy.<br /><br />Author Caroline Linden starts sexy, with a bondage scene, but really hits her stride when the intrigue portion of the book kicks in. The with Charlotte and Stuart working together to solve the mystery of Susan's disappearance really work, as does Charlotte's decision to risk her reputation and have an affair with Stuart. Stuart makes a great tortured hero and Caroline is a woman with a very definite past. Fans of Amanda Quick will definitely want to get their hands on this sexy regency-era historical/adventure.	2005-08-05
130754:US	49115690	R17VQAS3VYDUJE	1412047005	812937424	Seeds of Heaven	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining new-age read	Visitors from a distant star have come to the world known as Gaia, in order to help primative humans escape the confines of their DNA and achieve higher states of consciousness. Once on our Earth, though, these Arctureans mate with humans, creating a mixed race of great promise, but also great danger.<br /><br />War breaks out between sophisticated Atlantis and near-barbaric Thulia. Atlanta's dictator, Hister, becomes fixated on Thulia's destruction, to the point where he risks destroying the entire world. In the destruction, seas are emptied, lands ruined, deaths are multiplied, and Egypt is created, centered around the ancient Arcturean constructs of the pyramid and sphinx.<br /><br />Seraphis, a resident of New Atlantis (which is to become Egypt) finds himself moving through the planes of heaven. No'e's ark preserves No'e's life and that of his family, but Ham suffers visions of Adam and Eve becoming trapped in their physical bodies. And the emperor of the east sees many of his subjects ascend, but remains behind to help those who have more to accomplish on earth.<br /><br />Author Tito Abao combines new age mysticism with history and mythology to construct a tale of our earth at the dawn of history. Abao's strong writing kept me involved in the story--which centers on Seraphis's ascention through the heavens.<br /><br />SEEDS OF HEAVEN is a bit light on conventional plot--doubtless because the new age philosophy dispenses with many of the ingredients of plot. Still, I found it an entertaining and thought-provoking read.	2005-08-04
131580:US	49115690	RNV874696C1VB	0060595345	885685691	The Fix	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Convincing criminal details. Unsympathetic characters	Martin Quinn, half Irish and half Italian, grew up in the shadow of New York's Mafia. While in high school, he became friends with Felix (Fee), son of the head of Russian crime in the U.S. Together, they survived high school. But a shared love for one woman pushed Martin to kill the man who had been his best friend.<br /><br />Author Anthony Lee begins with the shootout that leaves Fee and Terry dead and Martin badly wounded. The federals move in, accusing Martin of murdering the other two, but offering him the chance to turn on his former allies. Then Lee backtracks through the long friendship between Martin and Felix--and the ripples that their shared love for Penelope created.<br /><br />Lee's voice is convincing in his descriptions of the New York underworld and the deals that lead to illicit wealth. I found him somewhat less convincing in developing his characters. Perhaps because all of them are criminals, it's difficult to gain any affection for them or find any concern for the troubles they face.<br /><br />THE FIX is Lee's first novel and it shows considerable promise. Although the story has its flaws, it makes an interesting and perceptive read.	2005-08-04
131601:US	49115690	R320IFJ88L8YMK	0373197780	803852649	The Texan's Reluctant Bride (Silhouette Romance # 1778)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Really nice and affirmative story	Thomasina Tyler, Tommie to her friends, is a hard-charging businesswoman, proud of becoming one of the top real estate sales professionals in Texas. Her career hasn't given her the time to find 'the one' yet, but she wouldn't mind finding the right guy. One thing, though--that guy had better understand that her goals, her career, her ambitions matter. She's sacrificed a lot for family--happily--but she doesn't intend to give up her life to turn into some man's cook, house-cleaner, and baby factory--not even if he's a hunk like millionaire Pete Schofield.<br /><br />After years in the north-east, Pete Schofield is coming back to Texas. He hires Tommie to help him find the perfect house--the house that will be perfect for the life he intends to create. Pete wants the idealized family he grew up in--and has enough money he thinks he can get it. But when he starts to see pretty Tommie in that house with him, he gets a rude awakening. Tommie isn't about to give up her ambitions--not even in the face of what Pete recognizes as an attraction as strong as their own.<br /><br />Author Judy Christenberry always populates her stories with family--and THE TEXAN'S RELUCTANT BRIDE is no exception. As Tommie relates with her triplet sisters, we see many of the same characteristics that Pete holds--but which he does not know how to accept in a woman. Through the eyes of his brother, we begin to see that Pete's idealized fantasy of family is both unattainable and ultimately unrewarding. Giving up dreams is one of the hardest things anyone can do, but unless Pete can realize that the very things that make Tommie so attractive to him are the things that are also driving him away, thanks to his archaic beliefs, he'll never attain happiness.<br /><br />Readers seeking warm families, hot and handsome Texans, and a lesson that affirms female strength are sure to love Christenberry's THE TEXAN'S RELUCTANT BRIDE.	2005-08-04
132655:US	49115690	R341GSA16RD3OX	1420839454	468166622	Club Fascistland:	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting social satire in Wizard of Oz retelling	After a childhood of abuse and questionable sexuality, a tornado wisks Tod, along with his super-intelligent pig, Otto, to the outskirts of the fabulous New Zirconium City. To Tod, New Zirc is a dream of tolerance, acceptance, and freedom. As he drives his airstream mobile home closer to the city, Tod finds and rescues a girl/boy tied to a scaecrow by a challenged football team, a post-human soldier in desperate need of mechanical improvement, and a truck-driver who both lusts after and fears Tod.<br /><br />The strange company finds that New Zirc is not exactly what they had hoped. While there are plenty of freqs, men and women living on a different frequency than average, the mayor is quick to crack down on any threat to order--and any attempt to have fun. Tod's early enterprise of a coffee house becomes transmigrated into a center of protest--a Club Fascistland. If New Zirc falls short of its legend, Tod figures he can just change it.<br /><br />Author Kevin Brink Nielsen translates the story of THE WIZARD OF OZ into a plea for a world where people can live in acceptance and harmony. As with the original Wizard, each character learns to look within themselves to find their greatest dream. But as with the original Wizard, the central protagonist's dream cannot simply be given.<br /><br />Although CLUB FASCISTLAND has a few editing flubs and the occasionally thunky sentence, Nielsen offers an entertaining retake on the ever-popular OZ. Readers who aren't afraid of people whose orientation differs from the standard, and who share a concern that the fearful's attempt to legislate morality is ultimately destructive, will certainly enjoy this modern morality tale.	2005-08-03
150176:US	49115690	R28RH6U8QWM2EJ	0373895127	786730833	Dating Can Be Deadly (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Well written blend of chick-lit, paranormal, and romantic suspense	Tabitha Emery gets visions. Not nasty-nice visions, like being ravaged by the sexy lawyer in the law firm where she works as a receptionist, but nasty-yuck visions--like the dismembered cat and the large blood puddle in the dumpster. Psychic visions bring Tabitha to the attention of the police, but they're inclined to think of her as a suspect rather than a valuable source. How else could she know so much about the victim?<br /><br />Meanwhile, Tabitha's life is falling apart. To pay for her broken-down car, she takes a horrible job at a movie theater. The sexy owner of a psychic shop is trying to persuade her to try out a scrying mirror--which backfires, and her job at the law firm is at risk. Only her girlfriends, alcohol, and a newly discovered cat keep her from disintegration. Oh, and then there are the two men who suddenly find her attractive.<br /><br />Author Wendy Roberts combines chick-lit with paranormal and mystery elements in DATING CAN BE DEADLY. Roberts' writing is high-quality, providing plenty of smiles as we watch Tabitha bumble her way in and out of danger. The mystery itself is a bit obvious, and Tabitha's extreme combination of incompetence and indifference may not appeal to every reader, but DATING is still a hard book to put down.	2005-07-25
150443:US	49115690	R1MXI9MSP3QS11	1594261083	825520465	Electronic Echoes of the Mind	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting space opera tale--recommended	Years earlier, Jake Turner took the blame for a major spaceship crackup and has been fighting to get his job as pilot back ever sense. Now that he has a second-rate job piloting a third-rate freighter, he doesn't want to lose it--especially when his friend Bob comes to him with another of his odd requests (they generally seem to involve holo-pornography) and some crazy religious nuts start referring to him as the bearer.<br /><br />Jake tries to keep his nose clear and stay out of trouble, but Bob and the religious nuts know which buttons to push--involving his guilt over his dead ex-girlfriend. And Jake finds himself plunged into the battle between an evil conglomerate, multiple space systems, and an alliance of small traders. Then there's his artificial intelligence--which seems to be getting more intelligent by the moment.<br /><br />Author Wade A. Kimberlin creates an exciting update to the old-fashioned space opera, and there's a lot to like here. The religious nuts are attempting to transplant their memories into electronics, the evil space corporation is trying to take over the solar system, and Jake can't even trust the people who are supposed to be his friends. There's an intriguing four-way love triangle involving Jake, his dead (but not absent) girlfriend, his AI, and the sexy pilot of another merchant ship, high-speed chases, and space battles.<br /><br />Anyone looking for some slash-bam fun summer reading will want to add ELECTRONIC ECHOES to their list. I'm happy to recommend this one.	2005-07-24
150871:US	49115690	R3KEK36A0IVZUO	0345480120	346835296	Breaking Point (Troubleshooters, Book 9)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Strong action/romance--with a bit of a draggy/backstory start	When FBI superman Max Bhagat learns that his one great love has been killed in a terrorist bombing, he realizes what he threw away when he drove Gina Vitagliano out of his life. He drops everything and heads to Germany, intending to take personal ownership over the investigation. But what he finds is perhaps worse than his initial fear--Gina may still be alive, but if so, she's been kidnapped by someone with both terrorist and drug dealing connections. Together with (...) FBI Agent Jules Cassidy, and dangerous and untrustworthy special forces renegade Grady Morant, Max needs to find a way to track Gina around the world.<br /><br />Making matters worse, Gina's disapearance coincides with a huge terrorist outbreak involving multiple hijackings and possible dirty bombs. All FBI, CIA, and special forces resources are stretched to the limit. Max won't be able to call on his normal chain of command for any type of help. Indeed, if he does call in, he'll be instructed to take over the main conflict, leaving Gina to take care of herself--and Max definitely won't agree to that.<br /><br />Author Suzanne Brockmann has become a best-selling author through her hard-charging combination of the romance and action/thriller genres. Once BREAKING POINT gets going, Brockmann delivers her trademark combination with style. I also appreciate the way Brockmann recognizes the moral complexities of the ongoing war on terrorism. While we never doubt which side we, and Brockmann are on, we also recognize that not every action taken by our government is consistent with our goals, being in the right, or even pursuing actions that make sense at all. For me, the occasional flirtations between Jules and other macho men he runs into adds a bit of amusement.<br /><br />I did find, however, BREAKING POINT to be slow getting to the point. Long flashback scenes servedto explain the past relationship between Gina and Max, but they slow the narrative and made Max much less sympathetic (he was a jerk, so who cares whether he's disturbed about losing Gina?). At around page 150, we finally caught up with the story and Brockmann really got on track.<br /><br />A nice secondary romance between renegade Grady Morant and relief worker, Molly Anderson, provides parallels and contrasts to the main Max/Gina relationship while allowing macho male bonding.<br /><br />As always, Suzanne Brockmann's strong writing hooks the reader in and propells the story forward.'s disturbed about losing Gina?). At around page 150, we finally caught up with the story and Brockmann really got on track.     A nice secondary romance between renegade Grady Morant and relief worker, Molly Anderson, provides parallels and contrasts to the main Max/Gina relationship while allowing macho male bonding.     As always, Suzanne Brockmann's strong writing hooks the reader in and propells the story forward.	2005-07-24
151401:US	49115690	RJMCBOFKL5KST	0399152881	732234440	Lie by Moonlight	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming and enjoyable diversion	Completely modern Concordia Glade hopes some-day to establish a school for girls. But when she learns that the four girls in her charge are in danger--and might be subjects of a white slavery ring--she moves into action attempting an escape. Fortunately, professional investigator and seriously mysterious sometime thief Ambrose Wells is in the midst of his own investigation into the peculiar boarding school where Concordia taught. He helps Concordia and the girls escape, but finds himself falling for the strong-willed teacher.<br /><br />Concordia insists on becoming Ambrose's partner and employer as they search for the truth behind the mysterious boarding school and the criminal masterminds who have invested so much in these four students. But the criminals are intent on having the girls back--and don't draw the line at murder. Ambrose's mystical training and skills will be called to the ultimate test, both to confront the criminal masterminds who rule much of Victorian London, and to withstand the emotions he endures as Concordia repeatedly ignores his instructions and insists on thrusting herself into danger.<br /><br />Author Amanda Quick combines a darkly mysterious hero with a quirky and amusing heroine in a charming romance. Fortunately, both Concordia and Ambrose soon recognize the attraction they feel, but true love is never easy--especially when it involves a 'modern' woman who is unconcerned about her reputation and who is convinced that Ambrose only wishes to marry her to spare her from being 'ruined.'<br /><br />Quick makes the Victorian setting of her novel, with its continued emphasis on 'society' and its gradual transition to a more liberated worldview, come alive. Her writing is charming and witty. It's hard not to enjoy reading LIE BY MOONLIGHT.<br /><br />LIE is not exactly profound and the characters left me both chuckling and frustrated at some of the silly things they did, but Quick once again delivers an enjoyable diversion.	2005-07-24
152410:US	49115690	R1NQ47O12ZJEFC	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Coming of age and magic--strong stuff	Harry Potter is back at Hogwarts, but all is not well in the continuing battle against 'he who must not be named.' Harry may be the annointed one, but Lord Voldemort is intent on proving the prophesy true--by ensuring that Harry does not survive their next meeting.<br /><br />Harry is back together with Hermione and Ron--who can't quite get it together. The game Quidditch plays a major role (with Harry having become captain of the team), and Harry has strange feelings toward the once bothersome and now all-too-popular Ginny (his best friend's sister). But Harry also suffers from the attentions of a new professor--one who is intent on bringing all of the future leaders together in his 'slug club,' and his certainty that both Snake and Malfoy are up to no good and definitely cannot be trusted. Even Hermione and Ron desert him on this particular fixation, but Harry pursues the facts to support his guesses, nevertheless.<br /><br />Author J. K. Rowling mixes coming of age, plenty of magic, and some wry political commentary in an exciting and readable package. Favorite characters are back (although there's sadly less of Hagrid than I would have liked), growing older and more mature. Kissing becomes a bit more common as Harry and the others reach 16. The death of a major character at a crisis point late in the story isn't completely unexpected, but it does introduce a note of sadness.<br /><br />HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE is a bit different from the earlier books in the series. It doesn't stand alone nearly as well as the other books. Without an understanding of the characters and Rowling's magical world, parts of the story will make little sense. The book also starts a bit slowly, with a stage-setting scene in the British (muggle) Prime Minister's office. Still, once Rowling gets going, this is a hard book to put down.<br /><br />Fans of the Harry Potter series will definitely enjoy this one. If you aren't a fan yet, you will probably do better starting with the earlier stories and working your way up to this definitely less cheery story.arting with the earlier stories and working your way up to this definitely less cheery story.	2005-07-23
153807:US	49115690	R2SNKSXWA759H6	0380820412	579506757	A Sundial in a Grave: 1610: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Perfect for conspiracy buffs--and fans of swashbuckling	Spy, duelist, and killer Valentin Rochefort has no intention of betraying his king and his mentor. But when the Queen blackmails him, he resolves to conduct the most botched assassination in history. But chance can play an ugly hand. Not only does Rochefort's assassination succeed, he's caught by an angry duelist as he tries to flee Paris. Together with the duelist Dariole, along with shipwrecked samurai Saburo, Rochefort finally escapes to England. But there are men in England who can put men capable of assassinating a king to use. And James I is not exactly strong on his throne.<br /><br />In England, a group of rogue mathmetitians have calculated that a comet will strike the earth and destroy it--within five hundred years. Only by taking action, by bringing about a new future can Earth be prepared to ward off this future destruction. Rochefort is to become a catspaw in this game of empires as the scientists attempt to manipulate the future.<br /><br />Author Mary Gentle combines a detailed view of a vital period in history with a touch of romance to deliver an exciting story. The evolving relationship between Rochefort and Dariole drives the story at least as much as do the mathmagics of the occult calculators. The Japanese influence adds intriguing and historically plausible possibilities in a world where Japan was poised between joining commerce and Imperialism and cutting itself off and living for two centuries in isolation.<br /><br />Conspiracy buffs will get a kick out of Mary Gentle's ultimate resolution to the problem of knowing the future and the ethical dilemmas of having to kill innocent people to save others. Fans of swashbuckling adventure will enjoy Rochefort's duels--and more adult readers will get a kick out of the strange relationship that develops between Rochefort and Dariole.	2005-07-22
167336:US	49115690	RQ3LDHDYT4IPP	0373513623	561474443	An Angel In Stone (Silhouette Bombshell)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fine treasure-hunting adventure	Fossil hunter Raine Ashaway, part of a multi-generational bone-hunting family, gets an irresistible opportunity to bid on a rare treasure--an opalized T-Rex. But her family's arch-enemy, Kincade, seeks the same treasure. There is also a third, unknown bidder who will stop at nothing--not even murder--to beat everyone to the multi-million-dollar relic.<br /><br />As the three treasure seekers converge on Borneo, each with a part of the puzzle, Raine and Kincade take turns outsmarting each other and engaging in verbal sparring and sizzling sex. But eventually they must join forces if they want to reach the dino before their cruel, murderous enemy.<br /><br />Raine is the quintessential Bombshell heroine--glamorous, powerful, athletic, and with a poison dart gun hidden in her parasol. The descriptions of Borneo will take the reader there. You'll feel the steamy jungle, hear the rushing river, smell the orchids. For anyone who loved Romancing the Stone, this book is for you. I can't wait to read the rest of The Bone Hunters series.	2005-07-13
167841:US	49115690	R1PZF818S3L4E8	0373228538	10463955	Bounty Hunter Honor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Teriffic thriller	Rex Bettencourt is the top bounty hunter in the Cobra Agency, but even an all-star needs a break once in a while. Rex is getting ready for a vacation when beautiful Nadia Penn walks into his office. He knows better than to listen to her story, but Rex is a sucker for a pretty face--or a sad story. And Nadia's story is sad indeed--her evil ex-husband, Peter, has kidnapped their child and will steal the girl back to Russia unless scientist Nadia turns over the nanotechnology she's been working on--discoveries so dangerous they could turn the population of Earth into gray ooze.<br /><br />Rex agrees to help Nadia, but neither expect that their attempts to contact and fool Peter will turn so dangerous--so quickly. But Peter is intent on getting the petro-nano technology that Nadia has invented, no matter what the cost. Finally, Nadia is faced with the choice of losing her daughter forever, or turning over her dangerous secrets. What terror could be worse for any mother? Another terror haunts Rex. Will he be able to shoot to kill if Nadia needs him? As a former marine sniper, Rex still suffers from the horrors of that deadly and dangerous job.<br /><br />Author Kara Lennox delivers an exciting thriller with a heartwarming romance. Both Nadia and Rex are damaged and afraid to commit, but their shared danger and physical proximity turns simple desire into growing love. The nanotechnology element is straight out of tomorrow's headlines--both in terms of the potential and of the dangers in this exciting scientific field.	2005-07-13
168267:US	49115690	R382QDBH5ZHL4J	0743499409	793892718	The Diva's Guide to Selling Your Soul	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic summer reading	Designer purse maven \\"V\\" has a perfect life--a thriving business, a perfect luxury apartment, clothes, a taut, slender body (with no dieting or exercise), and any man she wants. Sounds pretty good, but for one tiny detail. She sold her soul to the devil to get all those things, joining the \\"Life Enrichment Program.\\" It's sort of like selling Tupperware, except you end up in hell. V's conscience doesn't bother her at all as she merrily recruits others to sell their souls. But then one day she inadvertently does a good deed, which is definitely against the rules, and the wrath of the devil, \\"Lucy,\\" is upon her. Lucy is even more perfect than V, and she writes an influential New York gossip column that she uses to reward and punish her minions. (She also punishes with fat thighs and poufy butts.)<br /><br />On the same day as the good deed, V also meets a man. But he's a good man, and he believes he sees good in V. V spends a lot of time and effort trying to convince the guy she's rotten to the core, but all the while she's starting to regret selling her soul and wishing she could have that decision to make over again.<br /><br />This is a wonderful book. It has all the chick-lit trappings (woman in search of money, fame, fortune, love and perfect shoes, as well as an annoying mother), but it digs deep into the psyche and forces readers to really think about ethics and morals and values and all those squirmy things. The plot takes some wonderful twists and turns, leading to a totally unexpected, but perfect, ending. The writing is lush and lively, too, so the reader can just float along without effort. Fantastic summer reading.	2005-07-13
172681:US	49115690	R2ASL84M87SJ3Q	0312306261	643244690	Eleven on Top	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Stephanie is in good form in this one--very funny	Stephanie Plum, one of the world's worst bounty hunters, has quit her job with her cousin's bail bond agency and decided to make something of her life. Which leads to a string of disastrous jobs--at a button factory, a dry cleaners, and a fried chicken drive-through. Stephanie might not be the world's best bounty hunter, but she manages to leave a string of ruined businesses behind her--especially as a mysterious someone seems obsessed with destroying her, blowing up her cars (again) and her dangerous, and disgusting gifts. Meanwhile, Ranger is pursuing a missing felon and Joe Morelli is looking for a missing businessman--both of whom vanished on the same day.<br /><br />Stephanie's life is conplicated by her sister's plan to marry. Stephanie is stuck with a dress which makes her look like an eggplant and her prospective brother-in-law is having nightmares of being smothered by a white whale (or possibly Stephanie's no longer swelt sister in her wedding dress). When Stephanie lies (she does this a lot) and claims to play the 'Cello, plans for the wedding take an even more distressing turn.<br /><br />With Stephanie retired from bounty-hunting, her friend Lulu takes on the role as the world's worst bounty hunter. Lulu's incompetence sets a standard that even Stephanie never approached, letting her first catch get away after he seduced her, then handcuffed her naked to his bed. Even though she had wanted to get away from bounty hunting, Stephanie ends up accompanying her friend on attempted apprehensions.<br /><br />If all of this makes sense to you, that means that you, like me, are a fan of the Stephanie Plum series. In ELEVEN ON TOP, author Janet Evanovich cranks up both slapstick antics and family pathos to deliver a superior addition to the fine Stephanie Plum collection. It would seem that Stephanie leaving the bounty-hunting business would help her relationship with Joe, but with someone coming after Stephanie, Joe gets caught in the cross-fire. And Stephanie's constant physical attraction toward Ranger doesn't help.<br /><br />ELEVEN ON TOP is a quick read, with plenty of laughs to keep the reader going. Stephanie Plum is definitely back in prime form.ephanie's constant physical attraction toward Ranger doesn't help.  <br /> <br />ELEVEN ON TOP is a quick read, with plenty of laughs to keep the reader going. Stephanie Plum is definitely back in prime form.	2005-07-09
177972:US	49115690	RGRO88OTSBC5Y	0060506725	792621215	To the Power of Three	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Strange and literary, but fascinating	Three girls became best friends in their third grade. Now, a decade later, one of them is dead, one badly wounded, and the third injured in a school shooting. The evidence seems compelling--one of the three girls brought the gun to school. But for what happened next, the one witness's testimony and that left by physical evidence varies. It's up to Police Sergeant Harold Lenhardt to piece together the clues and see if he can arrive at the truth. Guidance counselor Alexa Cunningham wants to help--but she also wants to get Lenhardt into bed which makes her less than the ideal assistant. Still, Cunningham knows one thing--somewhere, there's another witness.<br /><br />The story veers back between the tramatic post-shooting period to the earlier lives of the three girls, to the pact they made in the woods behind their homes that they would always remain friends, through their discovery of boys, until their senior year when something went horribly wrong with their friendship. Lenhardt believes that if he could uncover what happened, he would arrive at the truth, but no one is talking.<br /><br />TO THE POWER OF THREE is a strange book. None of the characters is especially likable, certainly not admirable although Lenhardt is sympathetic. The three girls/young women were self-absorbed and largely indifferent to everyone around them. Cunningham is superior and annoying. Bit player Eve is interesting but doesn't really have the motivation to drive the story forward. In fact, that is the main problem with the book. Only Lenhardt, whose job, after all, is to solve murders, has a clear goal. And he never seems to do much toward achieving that goal with the final solution to the mystery not really coming from his investigation at all.<br /><br />Still, author Laura Lippman's writing is so strong that she pulled me into the story, made me care about these rather shallow (and all too human) characters, each caught up in their own petty problems, infidelities, and dreams. Lippman holds up a mirror to society and lets us see ourselves. It's an unusual approach in a mystery--much more common in literary fiction. But Lippman manages to pull it off, make it interesting.Lippman holds up a mirror to society and lets us see ourselves. It's an unusual approach in a mystery--much more common in literary fiction. But Lippman manages to pull it off, make it interesting.	2005-07-06
181861:US	49115690	R1I4VIJXO92NSL	0060763876	653774075	Map of Bones (Sigma Force)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Solid secrets and spies thriller	Why would a well-organized group of men disguise themselves as monks, kill virtuallyl everyone attending Mass, and make off with the bones of the famous Three Kings from the Bible? When the Vatican calls in America's elite Sigma force for help, Commander Gray Pierce knows that time is running short. That the killers took the bones and left millions of dollars worth of gold, jewels, and other relics must make the bones important. That they chose to kill most of their victims in a peculiar way--electrocuting them from inside--must also mean something. The strange composition of the powder remaining behind from the stolen bones provides a first clue. But could the ancients really have discovered the secret to creating super-conducting monatomic gold?<br /><br />Gray and his team, accompanied by pretty Italian police officer Rachel Verona and Rachel's uncle, Monsignor Vigor, travel first to Cologne from which the relics were stolen, then to Rome--center of the Catholic Church, then to Alexandria--where so many secrets remain hidden, and finally to the fortress of Avignon--where the Catholic Popes hid during the great schism that split the (Western) Church in the 14th and 15th centuries. They discover that they face a mysterious group from 'The Royal Dragons Court,' a secret organization dedicated to racial purity and the return to control of the royal families of Europe. With the power of the secrets preserved by the ancient Magi, the Court just might be able to bring this result about.<br /><br />Author James Rollins keeps the adrenaline flowing as Gray and his team try to catch up with the Court, learn the long-hidden location of the Magi's great secrets, and stay alive--a task made more challenging both because they face betrayal from within and because the Court has hired Gray's nemesis, Seichan, a mercenary from a high-tech criminal organization to help defeat him.<br /><br />MAP OF BONES will definitely appeal to fans of THE DA VINCI CODE  and similar thrillers. It mixes hidden religious secrets with high-technology in ways that will satisfy the most avid seeker of conspiracies. Rollins should probably stick to action because the romance between Gray and Rachel seems a bit forced (and Rachel goes from being competent to being in constant need of rescue), and the writing is occasionally clunky, but the story is compelling, the action fast, and the book hard to put downillers. It mixes hidden religious secrets with high-technology in ways that will satisfy the most avid seeker of conspiracies. Rollins should probably stick to action because the romance between Gray and Rachel seems a bit forced (and Rachel goes from being competent to being in constant need of rescue), and the writing is occasionally clunky, but the story is compelling, the action fast, and the book hard to put down	2005-07-03
182205:US	49115690	R3HFQ8Z9U7LUNW	0373895194	932093559	Sex, Murder and a Double Latte	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nifty Blend of Hip Humor and Mystery	Hip San Francisco mystery author Sophie Katz has just finished her latest novel--before deadline--and she's set on relaxing and rewarding herself. She's got a possible movie deal in the works, a group of loyal friends, a cat--and a gay best friend hairdresser who knows how to handle her impossible hair. She even has a sexy, Russian, possible-new-boyfriend. The only fly in the ointment? Her potential movie producer is dead, maybe the victim of murder, and someone might be trying to kill Sophie as well.<br /><br />Only Sophie has seen the pattern--artists are dying in tableaus that reflect their art. Now someone is stalking her--making freaky phone calls, breaking into her apartment, following her and leaving terrifying clues that have meaning only to her. The police think she's a paranoid at best, and a criminal at worst. But the really bad news is, her stalker-potential-murderer might be the man she's almost had sex with.<br /><br />Plucky Sophie is a funny heroine everyone can root for, and her motley cast of friends/co-conspirators keep the laughs coming even in the face of terror and tragedy. In her dubut novel, Kyra Davis has given readers a nifty blend of hip humor and mystery. I would like have seen more of Sophie's quirky family. Maybe in a sequel?	2005-07-03
184317:US	49115690	RRU9387B838LP	0525948643	324259518	Bubbles Betrothed	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Charming and fun	Former hairdresser and now reporter Bubbles Yablonsky gets all of the really horrible jobs in her Pennsylvania newspaper, but when her photographer fishes out a Swiss Army knife to help Bubbles cut the slit in her too-tight skirt, Bubbles finds herself in jail with an accused murderer--who promptly dies. As the last person to speak with the accused, Bubbles is of sudden interest to the court system and the newspaper--and everyone wants to see her notes.<br /><br />While attempting to maintain a relationship with sexy Steve Stiletto (who asks her to go for a fake engagement to help his career), fend off ex-husband Dan, and support her super-smart daughter Jane in her desires to go to Princeton, Bubbles also needs to track down whoever might have killed the crazy woman in jail. With suspects like a Polish-American Mafia leader, Bubbles' hands are soon full.<br /><br />In Bubbles, author Sarah Strohmeyer creates a character who balances between complete ditz and cleverness. It's a tough balance to walk and Strohmeyer steps off course a few times. Bubbles' mix of fairly sophisticated vocabulary when speaking and inability to understand common words when listening might be a statement about America's unwillingness to listen because we're too busy talking, but it seemed like an error to me. Once the action gets going, though Bubbles comes through. Her loyalty to her daughter, willingness to work, concern for those around her, and gutsy (if occasionally thoughtless) willingness to follow the story all make her a character worth admiring.<br /><br />If you're tired of super-sophisticated New York City women who know everything about fashion but don't care about anyone but themselves, you just might be ready for a Bubbles Yablonsky fix. BUBBLES BETROTHED isn't perfect, but it is charming, with a bang-up exciting finish.	2005-07-01
185569:US	49115690	R2KMAIPEPVX0SS	0345465679	526267444	The Rivers of War (The Trail of Glory)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very enjoyable War of 1812 Atl. History	During the War of 1812, the young Sam Houston leads a charge at the Battle of the Horse Shoe--and achieves a level of fame. The battle, against the Creek tribes allied with the British, was a victory but Andrew Jackson's militias did enough damage to allied Native American lands and people that Jackson was stripped of their help. He sends Houston to Washington to see if the combination of Houston's Native American connections and Jackson's strong letters can get some action.<br /><br />In Washington, Houston arrives in time to participate in the defense of the city--a defense that didn't happen in our history because Houston was wounded too severely at Horse Shoe. He becomes a hero of the city (along with one armed former Sergeant Driscol. With his new-found fame, Houston pushes for a different solution to the 'Indian Problem.' Rather than continue bickering between the Cherokee and the encroaching white settlers, Houston persuades Secretary of State Monroe to support the movement of the Cherokee across the Mississippi to establish a Native American nation that will have time to grow in strength to where it simply could not be brushed aside by the growing republic.<br /><br />Of course, Houston will have to survive the Battle of New Orleans first, and the British learned something from Houston's defense of the capitol. They won't make the stupid mistakes they made in our history.<br /><br />Author Eric Flint creates an enjoyable mix of history and alternate history in this story. Houston and especially ex-Sergeant Driscol are well-developed characters that add interest to a fascinating account of a part of history that is largely glossed over in most schools. British General Ross, 'saved' by Flint from a death at the abandoned siege of Baltimore (and there's a cute scene of Francis Scott Key writing the Star Spangled Banner about the defense of the Capitol rather than Baltimore harbor) is another charming character whose insights into battle help clarify what's going on.<br /><br />A couple of flaws keep THE RIVERS OF WAR from reaching its full potential. Occasionally characters get chatty, talking about things we already know without advancing the plot. And for me, the battles, especially the personal combat, seemed a bit drawn out. In the grand scheme of things, though, these flaws are minor and certainly didn't prevent RIVERS from being a highly enjoyable story. For alternate history buffs like myself, there's the added advantage of an alternate take that just might lead to a better alternative than the horrible destruction of the great North American Indian civilizations.at's going on.  <br /> <br />A couple of flaws keep THE RIVERS OF WAR from reaching its full potential. Occasionally characters get chatty, talking about things we already know without advancing the plot. And for me, the battles, especially the personal combat, seemed a bit drawn out. In the grand scheme of things, though, these flaws are minor and certainly didn't prevent RIVERS from being a highly enjoyable story. For alternate history buffs like myself, there's the added advantage of an alternate take that just might lead to a better alternative than the horrible destruction of the great North American Indian civilizations.	2005-06-30
189467:US	49115690	R3F4OPP3E6EUJ3	0778321665	721162630	Hawken's Heart (Tall, Dark and Dangerous)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Early Brockmann--really picks up after slow start.	William 'Crash' Hawken doesn't make any promises. He meets a girl, treats her well, but lets her know that he'll only be in town for a few days. Because being a Navy Seal means he won't be in any one place for long. He can't even promise a woman his government will let her know if he's killed in the line of duty. Because duty, for a Navy Seal working covert operations, is very much a gray zone. That's why Hawken has ignored the obvious chemistry he has with Nell Burns. Nell is the kind of woman who could capture Hawken's heart--put both himself and herself at risk.<br /><br />When Hawken is framed for the murder of his best friend, Admiral Jake Robinson, though, only Nell believes in him. The court is lined with his brothers-in-arms, all quick to believe the 'evidence' and unwilling to believe that Hawken could never have committed this crime.<br /><br />Nell doesn't mind rocking boats and calling on old connections to make sure Hawken gets a fair investigation--even though he did stomp on her heart the one time they made love. What she doesn't know is that her involvement puts her at risk. Because whoever framed Hawken definitely doesn't want anyone taking a closer look.<br /><br />Author Suzanne Brockmann has become one of today's top-selling authors with her Navy Seal-inspired heroes and the tough, smart women who tame them. HAWKEN'S HEART shows Brockmann in an early stage of her career. (HAWKEN'S HEART is a re-release of Silhouette Intimate Moments #896 from 1998 entitled IT CAME UPON A MIDNIGHT CLEAR). HAWKEN lacks the tight pacing of more recent Brockmann titles. I found the first half slow going as Hawken and Nell develop and then abandon a relationship. In the second half, Brockmann delivers her trademark mix of action, danger, patriotism, and emotion.<br /><br />Bottom line, skim the first half, then hunker down and savor the second.	2005-06-27
197233:US	49115690	R1CH2EE0QLYF3P	0060581077	498112704	Not a Girl Detective: A Cece Caruso Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun, Fast-paced puzzler with plenty of Nancy Drew trivia	Mystery-writer biographer Cece Caruso is in the midst of book on Nancy Drew author \\"Carolyn Keene\\" (actually a pseudonym for numerous authors) when her bookstore-owner friends ask her to deliver a vintage Nancy Drew book to collector Edgar Edwards. Cece is more than happy for an excuse to meet the eccentric millionaire collector. They strike up an immediate friendship, and after showing her his collection, he shows her something really special--a nude portrait of the model who posed for the original Nancy Drew covers.<br /><br />Cece is scheduled to give a luncheon speech at a Nancy Drew convention in nearby Palm Springs, and Edward invites her to use his vacation house there. Delighted at her good fortune, Cece packs up herself and her two friends, Lael and Bridget, a boatload of vintage clothes (which she collects, though she told Edgar she collected nothing) and head for a fun girls' weekend. Unfortunately, someone throws a kink into their plans--a big kink. A dead body. Edgar's body.<br /><br />The suspects are many, including Edgar's boy-toy friend and his majordomo; a wild-eyed Nancy Drew fanatic who wouldn't have wanted that nude painting made public; her less-than-honest, performance artist daughter; Bridget's new boy-toy boyfriend; a shi-shi art dealer. And, of course, Cece herself, who could have endeared herself to the police had she not insisted on solving the mystery herself. But her curiosity about the model in the nude painting, the artist who did the painting, and anything connected to Nancy Drew gets the better of her.<br /><br />The second in the Cece Caruso series is a fun, fast-paced puzzler, and Cece and her \\"chums\\" give Nancy a run for her money. The Nancy Drew trivia is fascinating, and the many references to vintage clothing makes me want to learn more. My one beef--Cece leaves town, twice, and stays gone for hours on end without making arrangements for anyone to take care of her dog and cat. I mean, maybe she did make arrangements, but if it was mentioned, I missed it.but if it was mentioned, I missed it.	2005-06-21
197489:US	49115690	R9RR3F9SXY73E	0312327811	844341865	Death Splits a Hair (Judge Jackson Crain)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable atmosphere, major suspension of disbelief	When his friend, barber Joe Junior McBride, is murdered in his home, the Sheriff and Judge Jackson Crain quickly realize it is an inside job. Although Joe Junior was a popular man in town, obviously he had at least one enemy. Could it have been his angry son, Three? Or perhaps his step-daughter? Maybe Joe Junior's brother, who has been known to be attracted to the new widow, is the culprit. Maybe it's Joe's new assistant--a beautiful woman who appeared in Post Oak from nowhere and who quickly fell for Joe. Of course, the spouse is always high on the suspect list--although in this case, since Joe Junior left everything to his son, the problem there is motive. When Joe Junior's step-daughter vanishes from Judge Crain's home (where she was visiting Crane's daughter), Crane becomes even more involved in the case.<br /><br />Although Crane wants to solve the case, he has a busy life, leaving only limited time for investigations. First, there's his former girlfriend, Mandy, whose feelings Crane hurt in an earlier case. Then there's the aging man in the house across the street who insists on wandering off and may need to be committed. When a stranger with a duplicate of Joe Junior's face comes to town and starts squiring Mandy, Crane is baffled and bewildered.<br /><br />In DEATH SPLITS A HAIR, author Nancy Bell gives us more a picture of a town than that of a mystery. Small-town Texas might have its murders, but it's also a place where everyone knows everyone else, where funerals are opportunities to share favorite dishes and dish gossip, and where children can be raised far from the dangers of the city. But, as the town of Post Oak learned with its supposed millionaire who was actually broke, even a small town can hide its horrible secrets.<br /><br />DEATH SPLITS A HAIR requires quite a few suspensions of disbelief. For me, the biggest was the lack of reaction when teenage girl Ashley vanishes. Rather than the entire town turning out (with massive help from the major networks seeking twenty-four hour 'missing white woman' coverage), the town seems to shrug its shoulders and get on with its life. The actual motivation for the murder also seems weak. Still, Nancy Bell's pleasant 'down-home' writing and the sense of place make this an enjoyable novel.major networks seeking twenty-four hour 'missing white woman' coverage), the town seems to shrug its shoulders and get on with its life. The actual motivation for the murder also seems weak. Still, Nancy Bell's pleasant 'down-home' writing and the sense of place make this an enjoyable novel.	2005-06-20
199645:US	49115690	RWY1CDSCAN9F6	0060741503	295051176	The Crimson Sword (Legend of Asahiel, Book 1)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Plenty of action but slowed by teenage angst and weak female	When his country is overrun by a wizard, Jarom learns that he is the true king--hidden away from the negative influence of his father. His mother tasks him with summoning help, freeing the country from the destructive wizard, but Jarom feels unable to accomplish this. Who would believe him. If only he held the legendary Crimson Sword--a weapon that has been lost for thousands of years. With the help of his best friend Allion and young super-fighter Kylac, Jarom seeks long-hidden clues to the sword's location.<br /><br />The evil wizard soon has company for evilness, however. Two exploring children awaken Spithaera, the Demon Queen from her centuries-old sleep. Finding the ancient magics which forced her into hiding to be vanished, Spithaera sets forth on a wave of murder and conquest. Even with the crimson sword, Jarom could have little hope in facing the demon and dragonkin armies Spithaera summons into existance.<br /><br />Author Eldon Thompson spins an engaging story in his debut novel. The action sequences move quickly, with flashing swords, powerful magic, and mythical quests. Unfortunately, Thompson doesn't resist the temptation to overwrite, resulting in some fairly clunky English. Even more distracting, the long sequences where Jarom doubts his chances, questions his future, and generally worries about things dramatically slow the story and sound way too much like typical teenage self-importance.<br /><br />Jarom's love interest, Marisha, takes a traditional role--waiting bravely to be rescued, only to be captured again--and then waiting bravely some more. Beyond her voluptuous figure, it's hard to see what Jarom finds so compelling about the woman.<br /><br />THE CRIMSON SWORD is worth reading for the action and the swarms of dragonkin. It will be interesting to see how Thompson matures as an author--the potential is there--if he can add some depth to his characters without bogging down the story.	2005-06-18
202388:US	49115690	R1T70FD0BMTKBR	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Girl-sleuths take on crack cocaine--exciting	Assistant U.S. Attorney Vicki Allegretti expects to meet a confidential informant on a 'straw purchase' case (where a person with a good record buys weapons and provides them to criminals). Instead, she runs into a couple of teenaged criminals who panic and shoot her partner and the pregnant CI. Vicki becomes obsessed with the case--to the point of attacking the woman the CI had fingered. But when the suspect's mother is killed, Vicki feels responsible. Together with Reheema, the suspect who Vicki now believes was innocent and set up, Vicki breaks her department's rules and her boss's orders to investigate.<br /><br />What Vicki and Reheema find is a crack cocaine operation on Reheema's street--the 'Devil's Corner.' The Devil's Corner happens to be where Vicki's father grew up, creating a social entanglement. What they can't find is a connection between the cocaine sales and Reheema's framing. Vicki gets in more trouble at work and is suspended without pay. Adding to her problems, her relationship with her married co-worker, Dan, escalates.<br /><br />Author Lisa Scottoline combines a solid feel for the streets of Philadelphia with some exciting girl-sleuth action. The evolving relationship between Reheema and Vicki propels the story forward as the two put themselves in danger and learn to understand and respect one another. Vicki's interaction with Dan, in contrast, is obviously unhealthy for her--although she remains in denial about this throughout. I found this distanced me from Vicki--I wanted her to get it.<br /><br />Scottoline relies too heavily on coincidence, from the setup of the mystery through the tracking down of the killers to the ultimate resolution of the mystery. But her strong writing, interesting female characters, and the backdrop of the war against crack cocaine in the central city, DEVIL'S CORNER definitely held my interest.	2005-06-16
203556:US	49115690	R2K30FYEP852H5	0373712804	738790191	A Family for Daniel: You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1280)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strong second novel by DeStefano	Amy Loar, climbing the corporate ladder in Atlanta, and Joshua White, a school principle in tiny Sweetbrook, share little except a past as best friends. But when their two children--Amy's daughter Becky and Josh's nephew Daniel--get in trouble together at school, they have a mutual problem, and they have to work together to solve it. Along the way, they rediscover their closeness, which blossoms into something far deeper and more complex.<br /><br />Amy has recently escaped a verbally abusive husband and is committed to building a secure life for herself and Becky the only way she knows how--pursuing a big-city career with dogged determination. She knows Becky is getting the short end of the stick in terms of her time and attention, but only until this one big project is over. Josh has all the financial security he needs, and more. But it's not enough for Daniel, whose father was physically abusive. Daniel is holding everything inside, and unless he confides in someone, his horrible father stands a good chance of regaining custody.<br /><br />I loved this book for its many complex issues, and I agonized with Amy over what was the right thing to do. These characters faced so many difficult choices. Getting into the viewpoints of the troubled children added dimension to the story, and their triumphs were all the sweeter because of the pain they'd faced. A great, emotional read; a quality sophomore effort from an author to watch.	2005-06-15
205480:US	49115690	RM35ETOEWSVVN	0743471687	244707463	For King & Country	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable look at King Arthur	The 'troubles' continue to tear Northern Ireland apart with the IRA and the Orangemen both killing and butchering one another while the British army tries to keep peace and managing only to wind up the target for both sides. When he's injured in an Orangeman bombing, Captain Trevor Stirling is sent back to Britain--where British intelligence indicates that the Irish terrorists intend to attempt the ultimate terrorist strike. British scientists have been researching time travel. If the IRA could go back in time, they might be able to change history in Ireland's favor--even if it meant a change in the fabric of time so complete that Stirling's present would be eradicated.<br /><br />Stirling arrives too late. A scientist has already been murdered and two scientists, one Stirling's lead suspect, have headed back in time. Stirling follows--and finds himself in the era of 'King' Arthur.<br /><br />The Arthur Stirling finds has little relation to the romantic fantasies spun by Medieval couriers. Instead, he and the British Kingdoms he fights for are battling Irish, Pict, and Saxon invaders, attempting to preserve Roman/Celtic civilization in Britain against great odds. Although Stirling is sympathetic to the British goals, complete defeat of the Saxons would transform history. But wouldn't the IRA love it if they could arrange for British Celts to defeat the Saxon invaders and ensure that the English conquest of Ireland never took place?<br /><br />Authors Robert Asprin and Linda Evans build an intriguing story line out of a fascinating period in British (and world) history. Germanic invaders have destroyed the Western Roman Empire, but civilization remains. The British trade with Spain, Italy, what is now Russia, and even Constantinople. Their heavy cavalry makes them effective warriors against the Saxon infantry but the internal bickering between their many kingdoms leaves them open to attack. Asprin and Evans give us Arthur, Lancelot, Merlin, Morgana, Gwain, and the others as they might have been (with Romanized rather than French names).<br /><br />History buffs will note a few errors (e.g., Asprin/Evans refer to the Visigoth occupation of Italy when they should have said Ostrogoth). From a story perspective, I would have liked to see Stirling's confusion about the identity of the two visitors from the future matter more to the plot, and the resolution seemed to be a bit easy to me. Still, if, like me you're a fan of historical warfare and of how pivotal events in history influence the future, you'll want to read FOR KING AND COUNTRY.nd the others as they might have been (with Romanized rather than French names).  <br /> <br />History buffs will note a few errors (e.g., Asprin/Evans refer to the Visigoth occupation of Italy when they should have said Ostrogoth). From a story perspective, I would have liked to see Stirling's confusion about the identity of the two visitors from the future matter more to the plot, and the resolution seemed to be a bit easy to me. Still, if, like me you're a fan of historical warfare and of how pivotal events in history influence the future, you'll want to read FOR KING AND COUNTRY.	2005-06-13
206979:US	49115690	R8EEZIVK48XYJ	1929034172	119671097	Lyla's Song	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent 'bad-boy' with strong writing	Eddie T. Samuels ('T' to members of his Rock band and his millions of fans) has come down hard. A decade of drinking and drugs finally catch up with him when he's accused of on-stage rape. He heads for rehab, then for a place in the woods where he can recouperate--guarded by the band's manager. He's sworn off drugs and alcohol, but women, betting, and music are still within bounds and a bet with his manager to date and bed his beautiful landlady seems like the dream distraction to wile away the weeks before he can rejoin the band. The last thing he expects is to fall for her. Eddie T. (Sam to the Texas locals) doesn't fall for women. But somehow, Lyla Lee makes him want to break the rules.<br /><br />Since her husband's death, Lyla has retreated from the music she loved. Her life is full with her son, the convenience store she manages, and her friends--including persistant suitor, Tib. But 'Sam' exudes a chemistry that can't be denied. When he wins a bet with Lyla by getting into a sold-out museum show (those rock millions can come in handy), he insists on taking her out on a date--and desire transitions into love. It's an impossible relationship. He's a notorious rock star and she's a widow with a child. But all of a sudden, 'T' can't imagine a life without her.<br /><br />Author Kay Layton Sisk creates a charming community. The evolving relationship impacts, and is impacted by everyone in the town. The musical obsession shared by Lyla and T serves double-purpose in explaining a part of their instant bond, and in creating the basis for multiple sensuous moments.<br /><br />LYLA'S SONG is a fascinating story, filled with entertaining characters. I sat down in the morning to read for an hour and didn't look up until late afternoon (when I finished it). Well done, Kay Sisk. I'm happy to recommend this book.	2005-06-12
208364:US	49115690	RH6K4J4JNDT9T	0373770391	733321227	Wednesday's Child	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Hair-raising suspense	Seven years ago, Susan Chandler's husband and baby daughter, Emma, disappeared without a trace. To all appearances, Richard left of his own accord. But Susan knew her husband wouldn't desert her. And in her heart, she knew her daughter was alive somewhere, waiting to be found. When she receives a call from a Mississippi county sheriff, reporting her husband's body was found in his car submerged in a river, the information creates more questions than answers. What was he doing in rural Mississippi? And where was Emma?<br /><br />Susan made the mistake years ago of accepting what law enforcement people told her. She won't do it again. She drives to Linton, Mississippi, intent on investigating the mystery firsthand. But just like before, everyone seems intent on convincing her to go home, accept what happened, and move on with her life. Her only allies are Miz Lorena Bedford, owner of the bed & breakfast where Susan is staying, and her great-nephew Jeb Bedford, on medical leave from the military. Jeb has his own demons to slay, trying to recover from his debilitating injury so he can return to his Delta Force team. But as Susan struggles to confirm her daughter's fate, he finds his protective instincts awakened ... as well as desire.<br /><br />As she does in her Harlequin Intrigues, Gayle Wilson has created strong, sympathetic characters with real emotions, a puzzler of a mystery, and hair-raising suspense all blended together in a pleasing package. Her Intrigue fans especially should enjoy this longer-format book, which simply offers more of everything she's so good at.	2005-06-11
209275:US	49115690	RSIDBUQRK88S5	0670033723	464565585	Dark Fire: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Really excellent historical mystery	Lawyer (and hunchback) Mathew Shardlake is minding his own business, trying to protect his clients and make a living. But when he agrees to represent a young woman accused of murder, his old nemesis, Lord Thomas Cromwell (not Oliver Cromwell of the English Civil War but his ancestor and Henry VIII's great advisor) has an opportunity to pressure Shardlake for help. And Cromwell needs help. The marriage he arranged for King Henry has turned into a disaster. Henry won't even look at Anne of Cleaves and now is sniffing after the niece of Cromwell's greatest rival, the Duke of Norfolk.<br /><br />Cromwell's hope is Greek Fire. In the wreck of a dissolved monastery, a clerk and his alchemist brother discovered the original Byzantine formula for Greek Fire--a napalm-like substance used by the Byzantines to defend their city but lost to history. Henry VIII is beset by the Catholic nations of France and Spain. With Greek Fire, his navies can rule the seas (remember that although gunpowder was known at this time, cannon were still primative and dangerous to those firing them as well as to those being fired at). But Shardlake is conflicted. He no longer feels passion for the Christian commonwealth and fears that another weapon will simply mean more killing. Still, Cromwell has him over a barrel and he can't ignore the summons.<br /><br />Together with Cromwell's aide, Barak, Shardlake investigates the origins and nature of Greek Fire--and discovers a trail of death. Every time he seems to get close, another body stops his progress. In the meantime, Shardlake needs to solve the case of the accused woman--before she is pressed to death in an attempt to force a plea.<br /><br />Author C. J. Sansom does a fabulous job describing the legal landscape, political infighting, protestant/catholic collision, and physical nature of Tudor England. But Sansom personalizes the conflicts and settings. The evolving relationship between Shardlake and Barak draws the reader in, as does Shardlake's attraction to the beautiful and noble Lady Honor.<br /><br />DARK FIRE is one of the best historical mysteries I've read in a long time. I definitely recommend this one.Shardlake's attraction to the beautiful and noble Lady Honor.  <br /> <br />DARK FIRE is one of the best historical mysteries I've read in a long time. I definitely recommend this one.	2005-06-10
212299:US	49115690	R31XACRQOUIPQO	0060567104	833020720	Indelible: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Well written but it has some problems	A normal day turns into horror when two men walk into the Grant County sheriff station and start shooting. Dr. Sara Linton, three children, and Linton's injured ex-husband, Jeffrey Tolliver (whom the shooters mistakenly believe is another cop), are taken hostage. Outside, local and state police prepare to attack--if only they find a way to protect the hostages.<br /><br />The origins of the raid go back years before--to the small town where Jeffrey grew up. Simmering hatreds, rumors transmuted into fact, and old secrets have been handed on for generations. When they were first dating, Jeffrey had taken Sara there--and walked into murder--both immediate and in the forgotten past. An apparent housebreaker is shot at the home of Jeffrey's best friend--and Sara believes that the medical evidence points at deliberate murder. Then the skeleton of a woman is found--a woman who had once accused Jeffrey of raping her. Could Sara have taken up with her ultimate nightmare?<br /><br />Author Karin Slaughter spins an interesting and fast-moving tale of danger and prejudice. Because much of the story took the form of a flashback, however, reader suspense was sacrificed. We knew, after all, that Jeffrey couldn't have raped and killed the girl. Otherwise, why would Sara have married him? And we knew that Sara would survive every danger she faced because she already had at the beginning of the story.<br /><br />I also had some problems with the story logic. If a man walks into town for the first time in a decade and his best friend is involved in a murder, it could be coincidence. In the real world, coincidence is everywhere, after all. But in the story world, coincidence is a problem, and it's a problem that the murder has nothing to do with Jeffrey, noting except that he is there to help.<br /><br />INDELIBLE has some problems, but Slaughter's writing is strong and makes for page-turning reading. This is an enjoyable story that came close to being much better.	2005-06-08
214960:US	49115690	R2DJYPF5V7UNIP	0060087706	13322660	Gravity Wells: Speculative Fiction Stories	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fascinating and slanted collection of short stories	A young girl tells her brother that everything is falling into place and that the universe will arrive where it's going--next week. An art critic visits a planet which somehow had no children. An author tries to write something meaningful about Kent State, from a science fiction perspective. A vampire tries to deal with ethics. A rock star discovers remains of a long-ago war. A slave seller goes bankrupt. A grim reaper tries to beat the game. The tarot speak. A fog threatens magic-wielding explorers. A love scene in a virtual world. A high priest deals with forbidden love. A strange organism visits the solar system. Are there snakes in the human bloodstream? And two boys discuss girls, sentient Dyson spheres, and basketball.<br /><br />Author James Alan Gardner brings a fairy-tale style of story-telling to a series of interesting and sometimes fascinating topics. For me, the first story, 'Muffin Explains Teleology to the World at Large,' was especially strong, reminding me of the very best Ray Bradbury. But there were plenty of other treasures here as well. 'The Last Day of the War, With Parrots,' managed several twists and a great combination of action and character. 'The Young Person's Guide to the Organism,' the longest of the stories, combined first contact with a look at mankind's nature.<br /><br />Gardner's uniformly strong writing, together with his often intriguing and always slanted way of approaching topics, makes GRAVITY WELLS an important read. If you're a fan of SF short stories, you'll definitely want to pick up Gardner's collection.	2005-06-06
215427:US	49115690	R1W8L47Q7YU346	0765304120	509723230	Mercury	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Best Bova in years--Monte Cristo meets space	Mance Bracknell had a dream--a sky hook, an elevator reaching from Earth's surface to geosynchronous orbit--and beyond. Such an elevator could transform the economics of space. Rather than costing hundreds of dollars per pound carried into orbit, material could be lifted for pennies. With bucky-ball materials, such a sky elevator could finally be built--and after years of work, Mance was project director for first nearly complete system, engaged to a beautiful woman, and at the verge of achieving everything. Then the sky elevator fell, millions were killed in the fall, and Mance was ruined. A decade later, like the Count of Monte Cristo, Mance is back--seeking revenge for those who caused his destruction--and seeking the return of the woman he loved.<br /><br />After years in a monastery, Saito Yamagata too has a dream--giving mankind the stars. By planting solar collectors near the sun, Yamagata believes he can dramatically increase the efficiency of solar power collection. That will certainly help with Earth's never-ending demands for power, but it will also provide the energy needed to send ships out of the solar system, winging for Alpha Centari--and beyond.<br /><br />Back on Earth, the conservative religious movements that took over after global warning destroyed much of the planet's infrastructure fear recovery and wealth. Stopping the sky tower, the solar collectors, any trip to the stars is a key part of their agenda.<br /><br />Author Ben Bova creates a powerful retelling of the classic Monte Cristo revenge story. It's easy to sympathize with Mance as he attempts the destruction of the truly evil people who ruined his life, who killed millions, and who denied humanity its best reach for space. Yet Bova reminds us that destruction, whatever the cause, carries a heavy price.<br /><br />I've been disappointed by some of Bova's recent works, but he pulls everything together in MERCURY. Interesting characters, complex motivation, fascinating science, and real social themes add up to a compelling story. Highly Recommended., and real social themes add up to a compelling story. Highly Recommended.	2005-06-05
216921:US	49115690	R2GSM4ESXJ4RGH	0312329385	137907273	Owls Well That Ends Well (Meg Langslow Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Completely charming	Blacksmith Meg Langslow is having a yard sale. Which wouldn't be so bad except the yard is multi-acres. The home they bought was filled with junk and she and her significant other, Michael, need to get the clutter cleared out before it destroys their relationship. Members of Meg's (weird) family have descended to 'help,' bringing their own junk to add to the sale. The last thing Meg needs is another dead body--but when a well-known antiques dealer is found dead in an antique chest, Meg decides she needs to put her sleuthing skills back to work--especially since the police are quick to accuse the one college professor who actually seems willing to help Michael with his tenure status.<br /><br />Meg's investigation involves evesdropping from a dumbwaiter, dealing with her father's obsession with owls and owl droppings (they aren't what you think--at least not exactly), sorting out complicated family dealings, and learning that just about everyone in town had it in for the dead man.<br /><br />I admit that I'm a sucker for funny light mystery, and OWLS WELL THAT ENDS WELL fits the bill perfectly. The family interaction is charming. Author Donna Andrews does a fabulous job characterizing Meg, her brother Rob, and Meg's parents. The whole yard-sale thing will be familiar to anyone who's every hosted one, down to the early arrivals and funky excuses (even without the dead body in the trunk).<br /><br />If you're looking for a great mix of family and murder, OWLS WELL THAT ENDS WELL is a charmer.	2005-06-04
217350:US	49115690	R16D7ECIL4IAYY	0441012795	142764139	Dead as a Doornail (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Charming and human--but a bit of a slow starter	Someone is hunting down the shape-shifters of Renard Parish, Louisianna, and Sookie Stackhouse's boss, bartender Sam, is shot. Sookie goes to her 'friend' hunky vampire Eric, for help and gets a replacement bartender, but Sookie's problems have only just started. Someone takes a shot at her and sets her house on fire. Then there's wanna-be-boyfriend and werewolf Alcide--who seems to have mixed feelings and ulterior motives in his pursuit of Sookie, Eric's continued interest, and ex-boyfriend Bill (the vampire), and a new love interest--a were tiger? It's enough to make a girl want to run away, except the were community suspects Sookie's brother, Jason, might be behind the shooting. And she's not going to let anything happen to the small bit of family she has left<br /><br />Sookie uses her mindreading talent to stay alive, but when you're facing the undead, shifters, and a couple of fairies, just trying to stay safe doesn't do the job. Still, she seems irresistible to all the guys she meets--which has to help.<br /><br />Author Charlaine Harris generally hits a tone that combines humor with action. Sookie makes an attractive every-man sort of hero, facing opponents who are horribly more powerful than she. The damage to her house, her concerns for the woman she killed, and her affection for her brother humanize her. Although I found DEAD AS A DOORNAIL to get off to a slow start, Harris definitely hooked me in the second half.	2005-06-03
218963:US	49115690	R12FQV3XSZA6LG	0060574623	502980035	The Hallowed Hunt (Chalion, Book 3)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Really superior fantasy adventure	Lord Ingrey kin Wolfcliff knows about animal possession. Still, when he arrives at the deathscene of a prince, he is shocked to find the accused killer to be a beautiful woman--who happens to be possessed by a leopard. It's his duty to bring Lady Ijada to the capital where, perhaps, she can find justice. But some compulsion, almost impossible to resist, is urging him to kill her at once. A very different compulsion draws him to her.<br /><br />In a meeting with a priestess, the wolf that dwells within Ingrey becomes active--opening his eyes to the magic that is around him and hinting at one of the ancient heresies--that animal-ridden people have a special path to the deities. But Ingrey and Ijada are not the only people with the forbidden animal inhabitation. Ingrey's cousin, Earl Horseriver, seems inhabited by a stalion--and something more. Whether that something more is good or evil, Ingrey has a hard time determining.<br /><br />Author Lois McMaster Bujold combines fascinating world-building, intriguing and multi-dimensional characters, and plenty of magic and action to deliver a truly superior fantasy. Bujold explains the history of the tortured land, and then weaves that history into the present, and into the task that Ingrey and Ijada must fulfil.<br /><br />THE HALLOWED HUNT is set in the same world as Bujold's earlier (and excellent) CURSE OF CHALION and PALADIN OF SOULS. Although I enjoyed the earlier books, I think HUNT surpasses even those.	2005-06-02
220617:US	49115690	R1RCM310PF6DTI	0778321673	86706331	Table For Five	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Growth and love spring from tragedy	Schoolteacher Lily Robinson keeps her heart. Every year, she lets wonderful children into it, and every year, she graduates them out. She won't risk real love, real children of her own--because she can never recover from losing her younger brother. But when her best friend dies, leaving three children, Lily knows that her worst fears have been realized. She can't help loving these children--but their uncle, not Lily, is responsible for their upbringing.<br /><br />Sean McGuire is a disgraced golfer. Falsely accused of cheating by the Japanese Mafia, Sean has been drummed from the sport he loves. With his brother's death, Sean has plenty to keep him busy--three children are a lot of work--but he knows he needs more. The kids were troubled even before their parents' death, and they're worse now. And giving up his own life for them doesn't seem to offer much help.<br /><br />After a painfully slow and introspective introduction, author Susan Wiggs picks up the pace with a moving and heartwarming romance. Sean, in particular, is a likable character--he loves children, is drop-dead good looking, golfs like a dream, and always knows just what to say or do. The troubled children, traumatized by their parents' death and by another secret, are realistically drawn--neither too perfect nor horrid but realistically troubled children.<br /><br />Death of a friend, a brother, and three children's parents is definitely a downer. But Wiggs's heartwarming storytelling and strong writing allows us to see hope and promise for the future coming from this tragic beginning.	2005-06-01
220871:US	49115690	RL98MG2SRTMUU	0345481259	921407190	Enchanted, Inc. (Katie Chandler, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Light humor, a bit of magic, and a dash of danger--what fun	New York is strange. People wander around in fairy costumes, with elf-ears, or pretend to be able to summon the subway and other New Yorkers pretend not to notice. Being from a small town in Texas, Katie Chandler tries to fit in, pretends to share that nonchalance, but it's an act--and an act that she's not very good at. Still, when the gargoyle starts appearing, erratically, near her apartment, she wonders if she might be losing it. Which would be unfortunate because with a horrible job and no boyfriend in sight, Katie's life isn't exactly what she'd dreamed of when she'd moved to New York, anyway.<br /><br />When she starts getting e-mail job offers, Katie knows what to do with them. She's been in New York long enough to recognize a scam when she sees one. But when her horrible boss pulls out one too many demands, Katie decides to take a chance--and ends up at an interview with a guy who thinks he's incredibly attractive but isn't, and another guy who doesn't seem to think he's attractive at all--but is. That's strange enough for New York, but what's really strange is that they do have a job offer--working for a company that does magic. It doesn't do magic tricks, it does real magic. And it needs people like Katie--people blessed or cursed with so little magic talent that they can't even be fooled by magical spells.<br /><br />Things start out rough for Katie--and get worse when she learns that a former employee is trying to introduce evil magic and possibly start a wizard-war. When the CEO decides she's a key part of their defense, and her total skills come from having run a Texas feed store and served as admin to a marketing manager, she realizes how much worse things have gotten. Still, if she could only get the sexy head of magical research to notice her, things wouldn't be so rough. But getting Owen to pay attention is a bigger challenge than kissing frogs.<br /><br />Author Shanna Swendson definitely charms with this paranormal chick-lit story. Katie is a fun and spunky heroine coping with the 'single girl in the big city' while the big city gets crazier and crazier around her. Swendson's writing engages the reader, making the book feel like a particularly interesting conversation. Light humor, a bit of magic, a dash of danger and adventure, and an engaging heroine add up to a recipe for a really enjoyable novel.<br /><br />Readers who caught Swendson years ago when she wrote as Samantha Carter have wondered what happened to this charming writer. Great news--she's back and better than ever.e is a fun and spunky heroine coping with the 'single girl in the big city' while the big city gets crazier and crazier around her. Swendson's writing engages the reader, making the book feel like a particularly interesting conversation. Light humor, a bit of magic, a dash of danger and adventure, and an engaging heroine add up to a recipe for a really enjoyable novel.  <br /> <br />Readers who caught Swendson years ago when she wrote as Samantha Carter have wondered what happened to this charming writer. Great news--she's back and better than ever.	2005-06-01
223152:US	49115690	R1IBF4DSUEIZL	0060575875	859220255	The Hidden Stars: Book One of The Rune of Unmaking	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Entertaining debut novel	The Empress Ouriana has declared herself a goddess and is intent on conquering the entire world. Those who oppose her have battled for decades, yet have only defeat and dispair to show for their fighting. But a prophesy holds hope. Someone from the Empress's own bloodline is supposed to bring about her defeat. And Ouriana's sister has a baby daughter. Keeping that daughter alive becomes one of the most important goals in the world. But the wizard who sets out with the baby girl is lost in a battle with Ouriana's priests--and nothing more is heard from the girl.<br /><br />As Ouriana continues her conquest, years pass. The Empress's conquests move closer and closer to the core areas of the alliance that opposes her. If the girl survived, she would be a young adult now, and they need her help. A small group including a half-elf prince, the most powerful wizard left to the side of light, and the wizard's daughter set off to follow up rumors that a princess in a distant kingdom might not be who she pretends--might actually be the child foretold in prophesy.<br /><br />Author Madeline Howard delivers a well written and interesting debut novel. The world she creates--one filled with monsters frozen in the deeps, a newly lowered moon that creates earthquakes as it circles, and of powerful magic, will be familiar to fantasy readers while containing creative elements that are all her own.<br /><br />The story concentrates on the journey of Sinderian, wizard's daughter, and the Prince Ruan, but occasionally switches to the point of view of one of Ouriana's sons or to that of the princess Winloki herself. I didn't find the characters quite as well developed or interesting as the world and magical system, however. Winloki is whiny and impulsive, and Sinderian is a bit whiny herself. While cardboard characters are a staple of fantasy (did we really get to know Aragorn, after all), it would have been nice if these central characters were more fully defined and sympathetic.<br /><br />THE HIDDEN STARS isn't perfect, but it makes for engaging reading. I was reading it on the train and nearly missed my exit.c.  <br /> <br />THE HIDDEN STARS isn't perfect, but it makes for engaging reading. I was reading it on the train and nearly missed my exit.	2005-05-30
226509:US	49115690	R2XROS1EU2O98Q	0399152407	412179057	Cold Service (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Disturbing but compelling	If someone shoots Hawk, then Hawk must get them back. If someone shoots Hawk when he's guarding someone, and then goes on to kill that man, Hawk must destroy the entire organization--and make sure the man's surviving child makes money out of the deal. It goes to how Hawk defines himself. And Spenser needs to be there for Hawk, because that is how Spenser defines himself. The women in their lives, Susan Silverman for Spenser and Cecilia for Hawk can't really understand, but they do their best (and in the case of Susan, talk about it way too much), but they don't get in the way as Hawk and Spenser set out to destroy a Ukranian-led mob.<br /><br />Relying on help from Spenser's manly-man network, Hawk and Spenser soon learn who actually pulled the trigger, but discovering the motive is a bit more complicated. No more complicated than some strong-arm tactics can manage, though. Especially since the police, CIA, and Feds are busy pretending to know nothing and see nothing as Spenser and Hawk put their revenge plan into operation.<br /><br />Over the years, the Spenser novels have become something of a caricature of their earlier self. From dealing with complex moral issues, they pretty much now come down to the question of what it means to be a man. Fortunately, this is a pretty interesting and valid question, although the answer that author Robert B. Parker comes up with won't satisfy everyone. Still, Parker's strong and fast-paced writing kept me glued to the pages and made this a one-sitting read (the large print and plentiful white space helped as well).<br /><br />I don't especially like the notion that it's all right to just go in and shoot up people, even criminals, because you want to or because it makes you a man. But that doesn't mean that Parker isn't still one of the best mystery writers out there. COLD SERVICE is a compelling story--even if you end up very happy indeed that you don't have friends like Spenser--or a girlfriend like Susan Silverman.	2005-05-26
227415:US	49115690	R3K3MN5S7ZK21T	0060505753	947504777	The Truth About Love: A Cynster Novel (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Sexy and enjoyable	Gerrard Debbington desperately wants to paint the famous gardens of Hellebore Hall--but has not interest in painting the portrait of another English girl/woman. Finally, though, Lord Tregonning of Hellebore Hall makes him an offer he can't refuse. Paint the portrait--and he'll be given access to the gardens. Refuse and Tregonning will make sure Gerrard is banned for life. But when he travels to Cornwall, to Hellebore Hall, Gerrard discovers that the painting is only one part of a puzzle. Instead of the girl/woman he anticipated, Gerrard discovers Jacqueline Tregonning, a beautiful woman with unplumbed depths, and with the suspicion that she murdered her own mother hanging over her head. Jacqueline and her father have decided that only a painting that reveals her true soul--and her inner innocence--can clear her from the horrible rumors and doubt that have surrounded her since her mother's 'accident.'<br /><br />Gerrard falls hard for the beautiful Jacqueline, but he suspects a painting, however clear, won't be enough. He needs to find the true killer, and protect Jacqueline from the threats that surround her. In the meantime, a painter needs to get close to his subject--and Gerrard wonders if he might have strayed too close to this candle to avoid getting burned.<br /><br />Author Stephanie Laurens mixes a bit of mystery, post-Regency manners, and a heavy dollop of sex in an intriguing novel. Okay, the mystery isn't hard to guess and Gerrard's goings-ons about owning Jacqueline are a little hard to take, but the sex sizzles, the English manners are in high form, and Laurens adds some slap-bang action to the exciting conclusion.	2005-05-26
229698:US	49115690	R2585NZ92F0Y4P	0765304643	81966072	Three Hands for Scorpio	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Still has flashes of Norton's great talent	Three young women share a magical bond. Daughters of a borderland lord and his enchantress-wife, Drucilla, Sabina, and Tamara learn their magics while the nation north of their own is torn in dissention. The true king of that northern land vanished as a boy and now a priest seems to have taken control, his harsh religion spreading fear and distrust through the country. The young women's father wants to preserve the peace and rides out to a peace meeting--which is when the enemy strikes, kidnapping the three.<br /><br />Thrown into a magical land, the three discover a handsome but strange man, his tiger-sized pet cat, and a host of forgotten world-type entities--giant bugs, weird fliers, and huge snakes. The man, Zolan, claims that there is no route free of 'the dismals,' yet they know they must return to their own land--in order to save their family. Although they do not trust Zolan (and immediately suspect he is the missing King), the three, along with Zolan and the climber the cat, struggle to find their way through the Dismals and back to the normal land. Once there, though, they must face an alien power so ancient and vast it seems there can be no possible victory.<br /><br />THREE HANDS FOR SCORPIO is author Andre Norton's last novel written before her recent death and her first novel in a long time written without a collaborator. In many respects, THREE HANDS is vintage Norton. The tightly coupled triplets recall the three siblings in THREE AGAINST WITCH WORLD. The suspicious but powerful Zolan is also reminiscent of earlier Norton. And Norton's setting recalls the ever-fascinating border between England and Scotland--where cattle raids and war kept life interesting for centuries.<br /><br />For me, THREE HANDS lacked much of the compelling emotional impact of earlier Norton, however. The three sisters were too similar--to the point where I never really knew which point of view I was sharing. It is sad to see the decline in talents of one of the great authors of the past century--and a joy when occasional sentences and paragraphs shine with Norton's earlier talent. THREE HANDS falls short of Norton's earlier work but it's certainly worth the read.authors of the past century--and a joy when occasional sentences and paragraphs shine with Norton's earlier talent. THREE HANDS falls short of Norton's earlier work but it's certainly worth the read.	2005-05-24
231060:US	49115690	R2860SZ1PE043U	0399152083	55533213	Survivor in Death	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Emotionally satisfying and exciting futuristic mystery	Nixie Swisher only meant to get an orange fizzie--but being away from her bedroom meant that the assassins didn't see her, killed her family and her best friend, but left her alive. Now, police Lieutenant Eve Dallas has promised to find the men who killed Nixie's parents and her brother--and make sure they're locked away so they can never kill again. Unfortunately, it's harder than it seems. The Swishers seem unconnected to any sort of crime. But Dallas thinks it's personal and she keeps digging.<br /><br />Author J. D. Robb (Nora Roberts) continues her Eve Dallas futuristic mysteries series with an emotional and compelling story. Nixie's experience is a distorted mirror of Dallas's own experience--both found themselves covered with their parents' blood. Dallas is certain she would be no good as a parent, but a strange and disfunctional relationship still springs up between the two badly damaged females.<br /><br />Dallas's rich and formerly criminal husband, Roarke, continues to provide computer assistance, good food, and sex. Dallas's partner, Peabody, now has her own successful romantic relationship and is largely recovered from injuries sustained in their last adventure. But this time, the criminals are tougher than usual. They seem to have military training, top-notch equipment, and enough money to pose a serious threat to Dallas herself, as well as to the Swishers.<br /><br />Fans of the Eve Dallas series will definitely want to get their hands on this emotionally satisfying and exciting story.	2005-05-23
232421:US	49115690	R27H35PASR5ZI8	0060724226	195929310	The Hot Kid	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Compelling story of crime and punishment	Carlos (Carl) Webster sees his first murder at fifteen. A year later, he kills his first man--a cattle rustler trying to steal his herd. When he turns eighteen, he joins the marshall's service. Carl gains a reputation as a man who keeps his cool, but who shoots to kill. Jack Belmont is just a bad guy. When he was a kid, he let his sister nearly drown. Later, he tried to blackmail his father, kidnapped his father's girlfriend, and blew up one of his father's oil storage tanks. Louly Brown had a crush on Pretty Boy Floyd, but he never paid much attention to her. Her brief career as a gun moll doesn't last long when the police, led by Carl Webster, track down the man she's running with.<br /><br />Set in prohibition America and the depression, THE HOT KID explores a period of American history when Dillinger, Bonnie and Clyde, and Pretty Boy Floyd were active, when gangsters were romantic, and when mobs ruled cities. Author Elmore Leonard spins a deceptively involving story about men who don't say much, who live larger than life, and who keep their cool.<br /><br />In Leonard's stories, no one is completely good and conventional morality is badly bent. While no one is good, there are those who are completely bad. It is a compelling and disturbing world. Leonard ups the emotional intensity as Jack increasingly disorganizes in his attempt to carve out a place for himself in a world where criminals glory in becoming America's Most Wanted.<br /><br />Warning: THE HOT KID is hard to put down. I sat down to read it and pretty much didn't do anything else all day.	2005-05-21
232703:US	49115690	R3J8EC9HUD5U32	0743498909	601636466	Ill Met by Moonlight (The Doubled Edge, Book 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Solid entertainment	The seers still see three futures--a reign of Edward, gray and acceptable to both Seleighe and Unseleighe. A reign of Mary, with the terrors of the inquisition and pain to feed Unseelie, and a golden reign of Elizabeth. The Unseelie hope to eliminate Elizabeth despite the overking Oberon's proclamation that she be unharmed. Whether through murder, or merely through disgrace, the future that Elizabeth must be prevented at all costs. Of course, the Seleighe have the opposite purpose. Denoriel of the Seelie court has spent years protecting Elizabeth's illegitimate brother, Harry, and now he turns his attention, and power, to the young Elizabeth. Oddly, Elizabeth has powers of her own, can detect magic and recognize the fairy kind, even when they disguise themselves. Denoriel's half-siblings, Pasgen and Rhoslyn, represent the main opposition from the Unseleighe court.<br /><br />Authors Mercedes Lackey and Roberta Gellis continue the story begun in THIS SCEPTER'D ISLE. Despite the damage Denoriel did to the Unseleighe in his doomed defense of Harry, they continue their efforts to eliminate Elizabeth and the future she promises.<br /><br />Readers interested in English history will get a kick out of seeing a magical explanation for many of the events that occured late in Henry VIII's reign. Lackey and Gellis take the alternate history approach more common in romance than in speculative fiction, giving another explanation of actual events rather than changing the events themselves to see where the new world would take them. Still, imagining the young Elizabeth in the land of fairy, and watching the plots and counterparts between the light and dark courts is interesting entertainment.<br /><br />Strong writing definitely hooked me and kept me reading.	2005-05-21
237788:US	49115690	R16ZBSJG33RB40	0060736658	591868222	The Waitress	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Charming and very funny	Katie Simmonds got her degree from Oxford, then froze, unable to decide what to do with her life. Or rather, she decides what to do--for a day or two. Her roommate has helped her write sixty resumes, for the dream of the moment. In the meantime, she and her actor-best friend Sukie work as waitresses in a cheap cafe. When Katie finally meets her dream man, she is torn with indecision, unable to talk to him at all, and bolts halfway through their dinner date. She doesn't dream that Dan the dream man is about to come the new owner of the cafe--and her new boss.<br /><br />Katie wrestles with her growing attraction for Dan, and with her self-doubts and concerns for her future. In the meantime, Sukie tries to get acting jobs, Matt the dishwasher falls for beautiful and perfect Jennifer, and brainless waitress Patsy flirts with equally brainless (but talented) chef Nik. Adding to Katie's problems, though, Dan has gone back to his old girlfriend--and that girlfriend quickly makes the right noises to move from girlfriend to fiancee.<br /><br />Author Melissa Nathan keeps the laughs coming as Katie and Sukie turn being super-rude waitresses into something that appeals to the crowds, as Katie wards off advances from drunk ex-boyfriend Hugh, and as Matt wrestles with overgrown pimples that erupt just as he is about to enter into the perfect date with beautiful Jennifer.<br /><br />Too often, it seems like the world expects the twenty-something to know what to do. But school, even a degree from Oxford, can offer precious little practical direction--and it is easy to become trapped in a job. Of course, sometimes that job-trap can actually become something more.<br /><br />Fans of humorous England-set chick-lit will definitely want to add this one to their must-read list.	2005-05-17
241063:US	49115690	R3MLAYA1LN2EOU	0345457749	500826137	Market Forces	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Flawed but intriguing dark near-future	Chris Faulkner is a man on the move. He's used his driving skills to kill one famous driver an defeated others and now he moves to one of the hottest companies out there. But Shorn, his new company, doesn't believe in sissy stunts like dragging one of Chris's injured opponents to the hospital. Now that Chris is playing in the big leagues, he faces some tough competition. As he learns to party and kill with the big boys, his marriage begins to deteriorate. But the worst comes when he realizes that some of his worst enemies are within his own company.<br /><br />Author Richard K. Morgan spins a darkly dystopic near-future where a form of capitalism runs amuck. Road Rage has become a formally recognized method of resolving disputes and private companies have taken over small wars, funding guerilla movements or repressive regimes in return for control over the economies. The CIA and former Russian intelligence agencies are now private companies, still doing assassination and gun-running, but doing it for profit rather than for some supposed national interest.<br /><br />The dark future world of MARKET FORCES is intriguing. In a world where every government function is considered for privatization, why not warfare? And managing third world economies for private corporate benefit is as old as the Roman Empire and the Banana Republics of Central America. Still, I thought the car-wars element was a big far-fetched.<br /><br />What kept MARKET FORCES from being as compelling as I'd hoped, and as the intriguing world should have allowed, was the protagonist's character. He seemed too willing to abandon his wife and chase after the beautiful reporter. He gave up his relatively peaceful ways too quickly, almost happily. I didn't really get a sense of struggle or sacrifice on his part. Still, the action moves fast, the car-wars stuff is a lot of fun, and the whole dark futuristic feel makes MARKET FORCES a book to read.	2005-05-14
243117:US	49115690	R24RREMESI9A3A	0060097981	966392680	A Midsummer Night's Scream (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 15)	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Unlikable protagonist weakens well-written story	Jane Jeffry agrees to help her friend Shelley select caterers by tasting the food at a local amateur theater. Unfortunately, the play is bad--and most of the caterers are bad too. But surely no actor is bad enough to justify murder? Unfortunately, one of the actors is found--both drugged and beaten to death. Jill's cop-boyfriend Mel looks to Jane for help in determining whom, among the other actors, the director, and the theater hangers on, might have had reason to kill.<br /><br />Solving crimes is far from Jane's whole life, though. She is also on the verge of selling her first mystery. When the call comes, no one is surprised: of course Jane is so talented that she would sell. But woe upon a 'friend' who suggests that Jane might want to write a story based on the friend's experience in costuming. Jane cuts her to the quick, and manages to see herself as the victim of what most authors know is a common misunderstanding. In general, I found Jane's snobbishness, and general dismissal of everyone around her off-putting.<br /><br />Author Jill Churchill knows how to put words together. I enjoyed the first half of this book a lot as Jane explored the hobby of needlepoint, got to know one of the actresses in the play, and dealt with her children and boyfriend. But Jane's unconscious self-centeredness, which could have been charming if the author gave us a clue that she recognized it as a weakness rather than accepting it as admirable, eventually grated on me.<br /><br />A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S SCREAM has plenty of enjoyable moments. If you can put up with, or find the humor in these self-centered characters, you'll find SCREAM has its rewards.	2005-05-12
244223:US	49115690	R1VCVL47N970TS	0758207093	109691054	Southern Comfort	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Action and sensuality both sizzle	An undercover job goes badly wrong and Drug Enforcement Agency Fallon Hargis needs to escape from killers. She follows a hotel guest into his room, orders him to strip at gunpoint, loses her wig, and fakes having sex with him while the drug enforcers tear through the hotel looking for her. Unfortunately for her plan, the faked sex turns into the real thing and it's the best sex Fallon has had in a long time.<br /><br />Wade Tanner had come to Dallas to get get away from Two Creeks, Texas for a couple of days. He'd hoped for a little excitement--but a beautiful woman forcing him to have sex, then almost bleeding to death on him is a lot more excitement than he had anticipated. Since someone in the D.E.A. blew Falon's cover, she needs to stay underground--and Wade persuades her to return with him to Two Creeks where she can get doctored up and think about next steps. He anticipates more excitement, more sex. He doesn't guess that Fallon has a personal stake in bringing down one of the biggest drug dealers in the southwest--or that he will be forced to return to 'the pit,' the most dangerous and lawless place in the North American continent.<br /><br />Author Karen Kelley mixes fast-paced action with steamy sensuality in an exciting romantic suspense. From the first page, she sends her characters (and her readers) on a rollercoaster ride of violence, danger, and sex. Still, Kelley is able to step back from the action for long enough to develop the characters, allowing the eventual resolution of their conflict to progress naturally.<br /><br />If you're looking for an exciting action/suspense romance with plenty of sizzle, you won't go wrong with SOUTHERN COMFORT.	2005-05-11
248297:US	49115690	R1Y0PPEWCPTHPV	1400043085	468189384	Cast of Shadows	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Incredible suspense and great plot twists	How far would you go to catch a violent killer? What if he'd killed your teenage daughter? Dr. Davis Moore, a well-known geneticist, faces a frightening moral dilemma when he gets the opportunity to secretly clone his daughter's killer and implant the resulting embryo in the womb of an unsuspecting woman. His plan is to watch the child grow up and, eventually, look into the face of the killer and possibly identify him.<br /><br />That fateful decision affects the lives of dozens of people--that of his fragile wife; the pediatrician who ends up sharing his secret; a private investigator-turned-reporter, and ultimately, the child himself, Justin Finn, who turns out to be smarter--and scarier--than Dr. Moore ever anticipated.<br /><br />Set in the near future and frighteningly believable, Guilfoile tracks this complex story over twenty years, through the minds of all the major players and several on the fringes, and through a video-game universe that has become a world-wide obsession. Every time I thought I had it figured out, I was wrong--right up until the very last page. The villains (and no one in this book is truly innocent) are so well-motivated that I found myself understanding and almost sympathizing with every character at one time or another. An incredible debut novel from a writer to watch.	2005-05-08
248707:US	49115690	R282GZ0GPYMZ75	0441012450	420015712	The Seven Hills	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating alternate history	Defeated by Hannibal, Rome retreated over the Alps, creating a new northern republic. But now, with Carthage distracted by an invasion of Egypt, new Roman legions, consisting of Romans of Italian, German, and Gaulish citizens have reconquered Italy and vow to take their fight to the very walls of Carthage. In Egypt, Marcus Cornelius Scipio cultivates Seline (Cleopatra) and discovers the power of applied philosophy, experimenting with steam power, metal warships, and hang gliders. Meanwhile, with four legions, Titus Norbanus sets off on a march from the deserts of Sinai through Israel, Selucia, Thrace, and Greece--finally setting off toward Spain and a collision with Hamilcar who commands Carthage.<br /><br />Author John Maddox Roberts creates a fascinating alternate history with his examination of a world where Hannibal won the second Punic war, but failed to completely destroy the Roman Republic. As with the historical Republic, Roman society is transformed by the huge influx of wealth that comes from conquest and contact with the older civilizations of the Helenic and Punic civilizations. Unlike historical Rome, though, the influx of wealth is sudden, happening in years rather than over generations. The old republican virtues remain strong even as generals look to seize the dictatorship.<br /><br />Roberts uses two Greek philosophers to serve as his 'eyes,' letting them see the recreated Roman Republic with foreign eyes and allowing him to explore the nature of Rome more closely than if he had used only Roman protagonists. And clearly Roberts knows his subject. I think the adoption of Archimedean philosophy is something of a stretch for Roberts, with the attendant development of hang gliders, paddle wheels, steam power, and submarines. Still, perhaps the Romans would have given engineering more attention of Archimedes had defended Syracuse against Carthaginians rather than Romans.<br /><br />Greek philosophy and Roman law form the structure underlying the entire western world. As such, alternate history analyses of the Roman world hold an inherent interest. John Maddox Roberts brings a strong knowledge of Roman history and admiration for Roman achievements into a fascinating alternate history account.entire western world. As such, alternate history analyses of the Roman world hold an inherent interest. John Maddox Roberts brings a strong knowledge of Roman history and admiration for Roman achievements into a fascinating alternate history account.	2005-05-08
249590:US	49115690	RNAP5X7LT81DB	0373750722	479543166	Hometown Honey	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Heartwarming and funny kickoff to 'Blond Justice'	Cindy Lefler is set for life. Her handsome fiance shares her interest in travel and loves her son. Dex Shalimar is taking care of selling her business and then they'll honeymoon in Indonesia and see the world. Even better, she can rub hunky cop Luke Rheems's nose in it. He's never liked Dex, always thought something was fishy. Well, Luke is afraid to leave smalltown Cottonwood, Texas. Cindy wants nothing more than to see it, and the diner that ruined her parents' life in her rear-view mirror.<br /><br />When two attractive blondes walk into the Miracle Cafe where Cindy is wrapping up her last day's work, Cindy doesn't think much of it. Except when they corner her and tell her that Dex is actually Marvin Carter--a con-man. She's sure they are wrong--Luke had Dex checked out. But her bank account has been emptied, a man arrives at the diner with the story that he's bought the place, and Dex, or Marvin, is nowhere to be found. All of a sudden, Cindy is homeless, jobless, and husbandless. It's not a good place for a single mother.<br /><br />Luke Rheems has always liked Cindy, but he can't share her dreams. She wants to leave Cottonwood, but the town is the only home he's ever found. Still, when social services threatens to take away Cindy's child, Luke feels compelled to offer his help--even if it means working with those other troublesome blondes and leaving his comfort zone--and Texas. He's just being a good deputy sheriff, though. No way is he ever going to have a serious relationship with Cindy.<br /><br />Cindy discovers that the other two blondes, Sonya and Brenna, had also been taken by Marvin. They swear to work together to track him down and bring him to justice--blond justice. Luke gets roped in and they set off on investigation and adventure.<br /><br />Gradually Luke and Cindy learn to understand one another and sympathize with the other's needs. Still, can a woman with a need for travel ever settle down with a man who only wants home?<br /><br />Author Kara Lennox kicks off her 'Blond Justice' series with a story that's both heartwarming and exciting. Cindy is a powerful character and Luke makes a perfect foil. The smalltown atmosphere of Cottonwood, Texas rings true with Cindy's diner being a key part of the community and a support center for her. But Lennox doesn't hesitate to deal with real issues--predators like Marvin and the plight of women who lose their jobs and whose children are at risk.<br /><br />HOMETOWN HONEY is a terrific read. I recommend it highly.br />Author Kara Lennox kicks off her 'Blond Justice' series with a story that's both heartwarming and exciting. Cindy is a powerful character and Luke makes a perfect foil. The smalltown atmosphere of Cottonwood, Texas rings true with Cindy's diner being a key part of the community and a support center for her. But Lennox doesn't hesitate to deal with real issues--predators like Marvin and the plight of women who lose their jobs and whose children are at risk.  <br /> <br />HOMETOWN HONEY is a terrific read. I recommend it highly.	2005-05-07
253295:US	49115690	R1HKMFSP3UU209	0976091941	772098817	Her Backyard	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Emotional and heart-felt	At thirty-four, Audrey Beane is at the top of her game. She heads a department in a top New York advertising company, commands respect in the community, and is living the dream her father had set her off on years before. Sure, some of her employees think she's a witch, and she can't seem to give up smoking, and hasn't had a date in months, but she's on the road to becoming a partner and is making the kind of money she's only dreamed of. But when her father suddenly falls sick, Audrey has to head back home, to Florida. There she faces a simpler life, the one her sister chose, and realizes how much she gave up to pursue those dreams. That sacrifice comes all that much more clear when she runs into ex-lover Roger Hollingsworth--the man who had tried to persuade her to marry him and stay with him in Florida years before.<br /><br />When her father takes a turn for the worse, Audrey's plans to head back to New York immediately are put on hold. Meanwhile, in her office, politics, illicit love, and greed continue. And Audrey spends time with Roger--falling in love with him all over again. But has anything really changed? Aren't their needs just as divergent as ever?<br /><br />Audrey can't get Roger out of her mind when she returns to New York--and tries to clean up the mess that her absence created. Still, can she give up everything just to return to her man?<br /><br />Author Doreen Lewis writes an emotional and heart-felt story of a woman coming of age. The death of her father and the recovery of her long-lost love force her to confront the choices she made years before and question them. I would have liked to see a bit more of Audrey actually painting and exploring alternatives to the advertising world, and would really have liked to see more of Roger being willing to make some sacrifices of his own rather than simply demanding that Audrey give up her life if she wanted to spend time with him (couldn't he have offered to move to New York? It wasn't as if he had major attachments to Florida). Also, I found the multiple arguments between Audrey and Roger to be off-putting.<br /><br />In HER BACKYARD, Lewis explores questions that everyone must ask as they grow in maturity. Lewis's answers, as expressed through Audrey, ring true in a world where pursuit of stuff often seems to take priority over pursuit of joy.d major attachments to Florida). Also, I found the multiple arguments between Audrey and Roger to be off-putting.  <br /> <br />In HER BACKYARD, Lewis explores questions that everyone must ask as they grow in maturity. Lewis's answers, as expressed through Audrey, ring true in a world where pursuit of stuff often seems to take priority over pursuit of joy.	2005-05-04
253872:US	49115690	R3CQ9XJJ5JU574	0373692226	529891913	One Night In Texas	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tortured hero, steamy sex, spunky heroine--oh my	It's just another job. Derek Stone will break into a secure apartment, discover the safe's combination, remove the blackmail material, and vanish. His government will be happy and he'll move on to the next project--because there's always a next project. Another job to keep his mind off of the emptiness that is his life. Of course, that's the way he wants it.<br /><br />Derek has the routine down for his job and doesn't expect to be interupted, but he's cany enough to notice the slight movement in the closet. But the last person he expects to find there is Alyssa Ballard--the women he'd spent a wonderful week with six month's earlier.<br /><br />He'd been irresistable, her dream man. For an entire week, they'd made love, talked, visited the sights. And then he'd vanished, a brief note his only good-bye. Six months later, Alyssa has recovered, mostly. She's moved to Dallas, done well in her job, and even dates--a little. Except no man can compare to the week she spent with Derek. The only problem is, everything Derek told her was a lie, even his name. When he breaks into the complex she manages, Alyssa suspects Derek lied because he's a thief, but she overhears enough to learn better--or worse. Derek is a spy, fighting for his country for the money.<br /><br />Author Jane Sullivan (Jane Graves) writes a great tortured hero. Derek has denied his dreams and looked at family from the outside. He's certain that whatever might be there, it isn't for him. A subplot involving a wedding where Derek is supposed to be the best man--but keeps dragging the groom away for one last emergency job--adds humor and lets Derek see the side of relationships and love that he's always denied.<br /><br />Sullivan mixes a good dose of steamy sensuality into the recipe. All in all, it's powerful stuff. Derek is a great character, the action sequences propel the story forward, Alyssa comes off as spunky and a good match for Derek. Bottom line, ONE NIGHT IN TEXAS is a winner.<br /><br />Jane Sullivan/Jane Graves is a double-RITA finalist for the two Harlequin Temptations she published in 2004. I wouldn't be surprised to see ONE NIGHT IN TEXAS being nominated next year.r />Jane Sullivan/Jane Graves is a double-RITA finalist for the two Harlequin Temptations she published in 2004. I wouldn't be surprised to see ONE NIGHT IN TEXAS being nominated next year.	2005-05-03
255709:US	49115690	R26A9AACVVMKQB	0060587296	433624212	The Flaming Luau of Death: A Madeline Bean Novel (Madeline Bean Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A charming beach-read	Thanks to a generous offer from a friend, event planner Madeline Bean has planned the perfect bachelorette party for her friend and employee Holly. The only problem is, Holly admits she just might be already married. Still, an 'event' waits no woman and Madeline (Mad), Holly, Holly's many sisters and best friend, along with Mad's event-planning partner jet off to the big island of Hawaii. There, however, they discover all is not well. A man ambushes Holly when she walks into her supposedly vacant room and Holly receives threatening messages. When a local man washes up on the beach, Mad realizes that she needs to get to the bottom of the mystery--even if it might mean missing a massage or even a theraptic wrap.<br /><br />Mad's investigation takes her to the secret meeting of the Bamboo Four, to a swim with dolphins, to multiple Luau's, and expose her to the charms of ultra-handsome and rich 'Cake.' But the charm of the island and the ultimate resort is marred by tough gunmen who are convinced that Holly, or Mad, can lead them to the reclusive man who just might be Holly's husband.<br /><br />Author Jerrilyn Farmer spins a charming beach-read tale. Her descriptions of Hawaii ring true and could (despite the occasional murder) be used as tourist advertising. Mad makes a charming character and Farmer's writing made this book a hard one to put down.<br /><br />Sign me up for the next Madeline Bean party (but don't make me the one who dies first). I am happy to recommend THE FLAMING LUAU OF DEATH.	2005-05-02
256846:US	49115690	RDA6Q3MAI3C0L	074349881X	85842663	We Few (March Upcountry)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Politics and action--worth the read	Few remain of the regiment assigned to protect Prince Roger after their three-volume battle across an inhospitable and hostile world. But although they, along with their native allies, now control the spaceport and a spaceship, their battles are far from over. Roger's family has been overthrown, his mother a captive, and the Empire of Man held as a for-profit domain by arrogant plutocrats. Somehow, with one ship and a few dozen fighters, Roger must fight his way across not a planet but a galaxy if he's to regain his position and save the Empire from civil war.<br /><br />With the help of a foreign intelligence service Roger is able to infiltrate Earth, but every simulation shows his attack on the Palace a complete failure. He needs help, and the only source of help he and his allies can imagine, the retired veterans of the Imperial Guard, are reluctant to throw in their lot with a Prince who was famous for his laziness and poor leadership.<br /><br />Authors David Weber and John Ringo combine to conclude the saga of Prince Roger's growth. Unlike the earlier books in the series, WE FEW is mostly about political bickering, obsessing about whether Roger would seize the thrown for himself or return it to his mother, and worrying about whether Roger's violent streak would be tempered by his girlfriend, rather than filled with personal and tactical violence. The final chapters alternate between space warfare right out of an Honor Harrington story and the attack on the palace complex--an action payoff.<br /><br />Fans of this series, like me, will definitely want to get their hands on this book to see how Roger is able to deal with the larger crisis that happened while he was fighting his way across Marduk. The first half of the book is occasionally slow going, and some of the dialogue is stilted. The payoff occurs primarily in the space battle--something that lacks the personal touch of the hand-to-hand combat that made up the action of the earlier books in the series.<br /><br />WE FEW isn't the best book in the series, but it makes an enjoyable military SF read.eries.  <br /> <br />WE FEW isn't the best book in the series, but it makes an enjoyable military SF read.	2005-05-01
257260:US	49115690	R2PV05RNY4QWH2	0060559349	884605705	Are You Afraid of the Dark? : A Novel	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Pleasant adventure with some major flaws	They seemed unconnected at first--a suicide, a Mob-related killing. But what are the odds of four unconnected deaths in a single think-tank? New widows Kelly Harris and Diane Stevens discover each other after their husbands' death, and begin to suspect that the deaths were no accidents. Unfortunately for them, though, the mastermind behind the murders doesn't intend for them to survive long enough to tell their stories.<br /><br />Still mourning the deaths of their husbands, Kelly and Diane rely on luck and quick reactions to avoid deaths at the hands of the assassins the mastermind sends after them. They are, he thinks, the only obstacle to his dream of incredible riches and power.<br /><br />Author Sidney Sheldon doesn't really stretch much in this light thriller. I would have liked to see Kelly and Diane rely on their wits more than pure good luck to survive. While their mourning is natural and understandable, their flashbacks into the wonderful relationships pulled me out of the suspense, slowing down the story. I also found some of the story logic questionable. The mastermind repeatedly ordered his henchmen to make the women's death appear to be an accident. But surely the police would have noticed the coincidence of the two women dying immediately after their husbands--and surely they could have left word with the police that they suspected something dishonest? I would also have liked to see a better reason why the mastermind thought he had to kill the two women in the first place--obviously they weren't intelligent enough to be much of a threat.<br /><br />ARE YOU AFRAID OF THE DARK? is a pleasant and easy read. While the story has its flaws, it certainly held my interest and kept me reading to the very end.	2005-05-01
260515:US	49115690	RPM5CE85FTV1R	0060567058	748790930	Skinny-dipping: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Charming story by new author. Recommended.	Lawyer Lilly Rose Cleary has obsessive-compulsive disorders, a boyfriend who is a serial marrier, and has now been assigned the world's worst case--defending a doctor who bungled a 'veggie-baby' case. That sounds like enough trouble, but then Lilly is assaulted in her law office parking lot and, a few days later, someone shoots at her and a client. Then there is the little matter of her clients dying of poisoning--and worse.<br /><br />Lilly can't believe that anyone would really want to kill a lawyer who specializes in defending doctors accused of malpractice. Sure, plenty of doctors are scum, but why not kill them? Of course, some of the doctors are getting killed, which puts things in perspective. But Lilly can't just walk away from a case (part of her obsessive-compulsive thing) and what she learns starts to point suspicious fingers at her boyfriend, her mentor, just about everyone around her.<br /><br />Author Claire Maturro combines action and humor in a delightful mystery. Lilly, with her combination of psychological failings and her drive, makes a completely enjoyable and sympathetic character. The spraying ferret, the dubious boyfriend, the strong-silent cop, and the slimy doctors and lawyers add charm and believability to the story. Matturo is, herself, a lawyer and the law portions seemed authentic, without being intrusive.<br /><br />This is a first book by Maturro, and I'm happy to recommend it. It's a quick read and, frankly, I had a hard time putting it down.	2005-04-28
262279:US	49115690	R3KSC5H539JH08	0765313332	127400703	Mists of Everness (Chronicles of Everness)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Plenty of action but falls short of Last Guardian	Everness has fallen. Galen, the new guardian, is dead. And from deep beneath the sea, the vast city of Acheron is rising. The angel of the morning star, Morningstar, Lucifer is ready to take control of the earth. Worse, his enemies remain in disarray, fighting one another, divided in their goals, and unable to trust.<br /><br />Against the power of Hell itself, the guardians seem to have little to help them resist. Raven, son of Raven has developed a skill with lightning. But Galen is pretty much dead, Wendy has lost her memory, Pendrake is invisible to almost everyone, and Azrael is torn between his own ambitions and the need to stop Morningstar before his city rises above the water creating another path between the world of dreams and that of Earth. Of course, the hosts of heaven stand ready to ride, but the price for an earthly paradise is high indeed--no more creativity, no more growth, no more great men.<br /><br />In THE LAST GUARDIAN OF EVERNESS, his earlier novel in this series, author John C. Wright creates a powerful mixture of mythology, fairy tale, and adventure. MISTS OF EVERNESS steps back from the achievement of the earlier book. Although Wright continues to deliver plenty of adventure, the characters are weaker and we are subjected to political discussions that don't really advance the story.<br /><br />MISTS OF EVERNESS is an enjoyable read with plenty of adventure. For fans (like me) of GUARDIAN, it is enjoyable to see how the problems established in GUARDIAN are worked out. I don't think many readers will enjoy MISTS as a stand-alone. It's quite important to read the earlier volume first.	2005-04-27
263259:US	49115690	R23OB1EGC73O7A	0060589582	599870037	Help Wanted, Desperately	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Some good laughs, but also some problems	Alexa Hoffman is in her senior year at Penn and hasn't a clue what she's going to do. Obviously she needs a job, especially since she ignores her mother's suggestion she consider law school. Still, an English degree is not exactly the road to wealth and employment. And Alexa doesn't really care what job she gets, but it has to be in New York, so she can be near boyfriend Jared.<br /><br />Alexa's job hunt takes her through a fashion magazine (where her non-straight nipples cost her the job), to cheap department-store buyer, to under-arm sniffer, to public relations. A nasty combination of lying and telling the truth (both at the wrong time) leaves Alexa the last person she knows still jobless--even as Jered lands his dream job. One problem is, Alexa doesn't really have a dream job.<br /><br />Author Ariel Horn recently graduated from Penn and her writing feels authentic, filled with twenty-something angst. There are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments as Alexa pinballs from one dumb activity to the next.<br /><br />HELP WANTED, DESPERATELY is well written and has plenty of funny moments--surely that's reason enough to read a book. I would have liked to see a bit more growth in Alexa, though, and thought that the final resolution was a bit, well, unresolved. Despite her quirks, Alexa came across as spoiled, insensitive, and amoral. Not a bad place to start, but again, I would have prefered to see her grow beyond that.	2005-04-26
265951:US	49115690	R3LGGBLCYDU3CQ	0345443578	528176152	A Stroke of Midnight (Meredith Gentry, Book 4)	Books	4	3	11	N	N	Political intrigue, unfolding magic, and plenty of sex	Her cousin is imprisoned, but Meredith Gentry's problems are far from over. Her cousin's lackeys continue to attempt to kill her and the Queen, her aunt, is decidedly biased. But Merry has one big advantage--magic is coming back to life. Magical powers that have been asleep, supposedly dead, for centuries are coming back to life--and Merry appears to be the catalyst. When a fey cook and a human reporter are murdered, Merry fights to have the human police investigate. But there's a high price to pay--a price that always seems to involve more sex. Merry likes sex, but sometimes things get a bit much, even for her.<br /><br />In a series of sexual encounters, Merry learns more about the powers she has been given--and is channeling. Merry is the descendent of multiple fertility gods and now, as the fey courts are dying, fertility is more important than ever. If Merry can become pregnant, she can be Queen. But even without that, she is bringing the abode of the Unseelie Court back to life.<br /><br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton combines political intrigue, plenty of sex, with action and violence in an exciting combination. Merry makes a sympathetic character as she confronts the bigotry of the Unseelie Court--prejudice against humans and also the other fey peoples. Merry's powers cut across these narrow lines--granting powers to all, and raising some to full Sidhe status.<br /><br />Merry's growing band of supporters, mostly hunky male sidhe from the Queen's guard--males who haven't had a chance at sex in hundreds of years before being given the chance to become one of Merry's lovers--and a potential king--struggles to keep Merry and themselves alive as the evidence grows that many might prefer that the magic never return and that the Sidhe simply vanish from history to what Merry would bring.<br /><br />I enjoyed the political intrigues and the gradual unfolding of Merry's power--and her communion with the Goddess. Merry is forced to make tough ethical decisions--in a universe where ethics are different from those in our world, but are certainly recognizable. From time to time, I found myself skipping over some of the more graphic sexual descriptions. While these are certainly a Hamilton strength, finding out what is happening in the story is even more important.ons--in a universe where ethics are different from those in our world, but are certainly recognizable. From time to time, I found myself skipping over some of the more graphic sexual descriptions. While these are certainly a Hamilton strength, finding out what is happening in the story is even more important.	2005-04-24
266331:US	49115690	RV1NE7395XBCR	077832107X	185622859	Charlie All Night (MIRA)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Very strong and surprisingly complex romance	When her ex-boyfriend hires his girlfriend to produce his morning radio show (taking Allie McGuffey's job), Allie decides to pick someone up at the bar. She needs a fling to get Mark's memory out of her system. But she picks Charlie--the man who is just starting a late-night show she's going to be producing and a man who flees from even the first hint of success. Sure the sex might be great, but Allie has big dreams--and Charlie is the kind of man who hates just about everything she stands for.<br /><br />Chemistry only carries them so far. But when Charlie's show starts to take off, Allie redoubles her efforts to make him a star. Charlie has other plans--and other goals. He's been hired to investigate rumors that there's something strange going on at the radio station. Once he figures out the truth, he's so gone. Even if he will miss Allie.<br /><br />Author Jennifer Crusie broke into the category romance market a decade ago and single-handedly created a demand for funny romance books--a demand that publishers have tried and mostly failed to capitalize on. CHARLIE ALL NIGHT shows both the appeal of Crusie's writing, and why so few people have been able to follow her example. Despite its short length (CHARLIE was originally written for the Harlequin Temptation line), the book manages to combine sexual attraction, a rejection of a relationship based wholly on sex, a hint of mystery, some rather sophisticated thinking on law and justice, a strong argument in favor of drug decriminalization, and a gay secondary character (remember, CHARLIE was originally published in 1996--this was not done back then).<br /><br />Crusie stirs these elements together into a well integrated story, and writes well enough that I had to tear myself away from the book to get to bed last night. CHARLIE ALL NIGHT is a great example of why Crusie became such a star--and definitely highly recommended.	2005-04-23
267343:US	49115690	R2U1DTMF4P09LJ	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A nice addition to the Leaphorn/Chee series	When an Indian is arrested for murder after he tries to pawn a twenty-thousand dollar diamond for $2, retired Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn digs around. It seems that two airliners crashed over the Grand Canyon fifty years earlier. One passenger carried a case of diamonds--diamonds that would be worth well over a million dollars. Even better, from Leaphorn's perspective, the airline crash diamonds, if real, would seem to confirm the Indian's story--and innocence.<br /><br />Sergeant Jim Chee, along with fiancee Bernadette Manuelito follow Joe's evidence, looking for the diamonds and the old shaman who is said to have traded diamonds for simple things like a knife or shovel. But they aren't the only ones looking. A woman believes that the arm bone from the man who was carrying the diamonds will prove she's heir to a huge estate. And the man who controls the estate now will stop at nothing to prevent her from finding the arm--or the diamonds. In a confrontation in the Grand Canyon, someone is definitely going to get hurt.<br /><br />Author Tony Hillerman writes a compelling story combining mystery with Native American legend. SKELETON MAN continues the wonderful Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee series with Hillerman's strong writing. I thought that the ending came a bit abruptly and lacked some of the cleverness I expect in a Leaphorn novel, but the book is still a pleasure to read.	2005-04-23
268992:US	49115690	R1ASS3AVRNJ5T0	0765312018	994447277	The Wizard: Book Two of The Wizard Knight	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Dark, sometimes obscure, but compelling	After living in Skai for thirty years, Sir Able is back in Mythgarthr (only a few months passed in the Mythgarthr dimension). One condition of Able's return is that he not use his magical powers. Instead, he must fight as a knight. Fortunately for him, the Valfather has given him one of the great dogs of his own hunt, as well as a young unicorn to ride. Together with Able's bowstring made of severed souls, and his sword--equiped with dead knights prepared to join in battle, although only sometimes in aid of Able, he hardly misses those magical powers.<br /><br />Able returns to a complicated political situation. The frost giants are restive and attempts to placate them bog down when the frost giant king is attacked. Even when he escapes the frozen lands of the north, Able is unable to find peace. There is a dragon to fight, and a message to take to the king. The result of that message, when finally delivered, leaves Able in prison while the kingdom falls into horrible war and defeat.<br /><br />Author Gene Wolfe creates a powerful and fascinating world--with strong ties to Germanic myth. Able, and the squire Tong, try to understand what is happening around them, make decisions that might not always be wise, and face a world where good and evil are vague terms--and making the choice between them is often difficult.<br /><br />THE WIZARD is a compelling and fascinating read. Often dark, sometimes obscure, filled with so many characters that the list of players at the beginning comes in very handy, THE WIZARD is still hard to put down. WOLFE has become one of the major literary authors of contemporary Science Fiction/Fantasy. With THE WIZARD, it is easy to understand how he's achieved this popularity.	2005-04-21
270798:US	49115690	R2PYSG5RT7SJ8G	0821778587	317381811	Here Comes The Bride (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Enjoyable and funny tale	When her father arranges her marriage to a Boston lawyer, Tess Kinley flees. She believes in marrying for love and she'll never love the lawyer. She's also dreamed of living in the country so she runs away and heads west. By the time she ends up in Gabe Calloway's ranch, she's exhausted, filthy, and been won and lost in a poker game. She takes one look at Gabe (Gabriel), decides he's her angel, and falls in love.<br /><br />Gabe has no idea what to do with this strange woman who drops into his life and disrupts it completely. One thing for sure, though, he's not going to lose his heart to her. He's already fallen for a woman who claimed to love the country but then decided that the city was the only way she could get what she really needs. Tess may claim to love the land, but she only knows about it from her books. Gabe is certain that no city-woman can ever endure the hardships of Montana territory. Since his own mother gave up her life trying to have a baby far from doctors and medical care, he wouldn't want Tess to stay even if she would. He's had too much loss in his life and Tess looks like another coming up.<br /><br />Tess realizes that she cannot control Gabriel's love--but the longer she spends in Montana, the less she wants to return to the city. Even if she can't spend her life with Gabriel, she wants to spend it here.<br /><br />Although Tess doesn't think of herself as beautiful, that doesn't mean she isn't sought after--by other men in Montana, but also by the man who was intended to be her husband back in Boston. Living a quiet life in Montana isn't going to be an easy option for her--and having a woman who sets his blood on fire isn't an easy option for Gabe. But only if he can overcome the wounds from his past can he save himself--and Tess.<br /><br />Author Laura Drewry spins a warm-hearted romance. Gabe and Tess are perfect for each other--he serious and concerned with consequences, she good-hearted but with an inclination to run off at the mouth when nervous and impulsive (an amusing moment comes when she fantasizes about a child with Gabe's looks and her common sense). Strong secondary characters, including Gabe's brother Bart, the neighboring ranchers who despise Gabe, and Rosa, the housekeeper add to the story's texture.<br /><br />I would have liked to see the adventure side of the story more fully integrated into the romance rather than coming largely after the romantic resolution, but HERE COMES THE BRIDE is an enjoyable and funny tale.t the mouth when nervous and impulsive (an amusing moment comes when she fantasizes about a child with Gabe's looks and her common sense). Strong secondary characters, including Gabe's brother Bart, the neighboring ranchers who despise Gabe, and Rosa, the housekeeper add to the story's texture.  <br /> <br />I would have liked to see the adventure side of the story more fully integrated into the romance rather than coming largely after the romantic resolution, but HERE COMES THE BRIDE is an enjoyable and funny tale.	2005-04-20
271548:US	49115690	R1DCPPXCNWJIS4	0060538996	757770613	Fall Guy: A Rachel Alexander Mystery (Rachel Alexander & Dash Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Powerful payoff after slow start	Rachel Alexander barely knew Timothy O'Fallon and certainly has no idea why a man she briefly counseled after 9/11 would name her as executor of his will. But now O'Fallon is dead--another cop suicide by all appearances--and Rachel attempts to understand what could have happened, what it means, and why O'Fallon might ask a private investigator he hardly knew to take this job when he had the entire police department available to him.<br /><br />Rachel finally decides that O'Fallon wanted her to investigate something, but what? She starts with O'Fallon's roommate, a young man O'Fallon had offered a home to after catching him shoplifting. Parker is a piece of work--always chasing an angle, wanting something more from the world, but just how evil is he? For many readers, certainly including myself, Rachel's ongoing training of her pit bull, Dashiell, to be a cadaver dog adds interest to the story.<br /><br />Author Carol Lea Benjamin starts this story slowly. Rachel remains an enigma with no clear motivation other than a compulsive need to live up to O'Fallon's unclear desires for the first half of the book. But as evidence about O'Fallon's death mounts, and as Rachel learns more about Parker and O'Fallon's disfunctional family, I found myself pulled more and more into the story. Benjamin's writing is smooth and kept me involved even in the slow-going early section.<br /><br />Give the book a chance--the payoff is certainly worth it.	2005-04-19
273339:US	49115690	R3AAWL1A8GGW1C	0060531800	993373457	Airborn	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Charming and fast-paced adventure	In an alternate Earth, Victorian manners prevail and huge airships connect the continents. Matt Cruse works as cabin boy n the Aurora--the airship his father had also served--before falling to his death. Matt wants nothing more than to stay in the air, become a sailmaker and eventually maybe even Captain. But the airship industry is changing. More and more, opportunity comes to academy graduates rather than to those who work their way up from the ranks. And Matt can't afford the academy or the loss of his paycheck that his family needs so badly.<br /><br />When Matt spots an errant hot-air balloon, he assumes an accident. But the ballooner's granddaughter, Kate de Vries, believes her grandfather's impossible writings about spotting a race of flying mammals--animals who never set foot on the ground. She boards the Aurora and befriends Matt.<br /><br />When the Aurora is boarded by pirates and damaged, Matt and the crew struggle to save her--but Kate is interested in her science and discovering the truth behind her grandfather's writings. Together, they face the horrors and wonders of the huge cloud-cats, and the frightful pirates.<br /><br />Author Kenneth Oppel writes a charming adventure. Matt, with his need to stay in the air to escape his fears, and Kate with her desire to become a scientist are both sympathetic young characters. The airships and Victorian manners give the story the sense of Jules Verne. AIRBORN targets the young adult market--and these readers will certainly enjoy the adventure and mild romance which develops between Matt and Kate. But AIRBORN will also appeal to adult SF readers who are looking for a fast-paced adventure story.	2005-04-18
274527:US	49115690	R2GJ5D7E4RXNAM	0060725540	215169937	The Girlfriend Curse	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Funny and thoughtful tale of romance and growth	When Peg Silver's ex-boyfriend asks her to join him for a drink, she expects a night of wild sex--not a sincere thanks for helping him get to the point where he was ready to get married--to another woman. Worse, when Peg looks into her history, she discovers that every one of the last seven men she dated ended up married--to the next woman they met. Peg is cursed to be the ultimate girlfriend--the one before her men turn into charming and married princes. Rather than continue, Peg decides to make radical changes. She sells her Manhatten apartment and buys a small farm in Vermont.<br /><br />Vermont starts with a bang. On the train, she meets a handsome man with the same problem she's had. All of his girlfriends marry the man after him. Could Peg have found the antidote to her curse so easily. It certainly seems so when a plague of mice drive her from her new home and into the 'Inward Bound' retreat where Ray is learning to deal with his issues. Peg signs up for Inward Bound, resolving to spend the time her home is being de-pested doing Ray.<br /><br />To her surprise, Inward Bound holds some surprises--and learning. Peg enjoys the yoga, hates the female co-counselor, and has mixed feelings about the director, Linus. Fortunately, Ray is there--ready for hot sex. Only, is Ray really the answer to her problem, or might he be just another symptom of the difficulties she's been having?<br /><br />Author Valerie Frankel mixes chick-lit with pure romance in an intriguing and very funny tale of growth. Peg makes an interesting character. She's strong, determined, intelligent, yet willing to settle for just about any attractive male who comes her way. Even when she knows she's been chasing men away by her determined behavior, she has a hard time breaking old patterns. And handsome Ray only wants to perpetuate those old patterns.<br /><br />If you're looking for some good laughs, accompanied by a really thoughtful look at romance and moving toward romantic success, THE GIRLFRIEND CURSE is a great place to start. I recommend it highly., THE GIRLFRIEND CURSE is a great place to start. I recommend it highly.	2005-04-17
275806:US	49115690	R4KS8E817T65L	0553801643	84734697	Cat's Eyewitness (Mrs. Murphy Mysteries)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Brown takes an intriguing chance--with mixed success	After quitting her job at the post office, Mary Minor (Harry) Haristeen worries about money, about whether to re-marry Fair, and about her friend Susan's fears about her own marriage. While visiting a monestary in the mountains over Harry's Virginia farm, they notice that the statue of the Virgin Mary is shedding tears of blood.<br /><br />An authentic Virgin Mary miracle is big news and looks like it'll make the career for a local TV reporter--one who happens to have a thing for Boom-Boom. Instead, a monk is found dead, praying at the statue--and more death is to follow. The humans think the monk simply had a heart attack, but the animals know better--a friendly cardinal (the avian kind, not the kind in Rome) lets Harry's cats and dog know that the monk was murdered.<br /><br />Working through the mystery takes time--especially with the holiday season on them, with Boom-Boom's growing relationship with Alicia, Little Mim's upcoming engagement announcement, and Fair's sudden deadline for Harry to decide whether to accept his proposal. Meanwhile, the pilgrims are coming to Virginia to pay their respects to the miracle of the Virgin--and to pray for miracles in their own life.<br /><br />Author Rita Mae Brown (co-writing with her cat, Sneaky Pie Brown) takes some chances in this story. CAT'S EYEWITNESS is far more about the people than the animals, and far more about the evolving relationships among the women in Harry's group than about murder and death. The evolving (non-explicit) lesbian relationship between Boom-Boom and Alicia is certain to raise a few eyebrows. Brown's conflicted messages on the meaning of Christianity will raise more.<br /><br />I admore Rita Mae Brown for stretching her writing when she could easily have written another light mystery. While her experiment is not a complete success and her writing (maybe it was the cat's fault) is too-frequently clunky and over-explained, I like the direction Brown is taking and look forward to seeing where she takes it in upcoming stories.g where she takes it in upcoming stories.	2005-04-16
275987:US	49115690	R3V6VHJJE438IN	082177865X	216491695	Love Is All Around (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Charming romances--this is a heart-warmer	Patsy Lee Clark wants one thing out of life--to get out of Daisy Creek, to put the mistakes she's made in her past, and to get on with a career. Too-sexy bad-boys are not part of the plan. Even if they were, Will Barnes wouldn't be. For one thing, he's actually moving into Daisy Creek. For another, the evil Jennifer has already staked him out as her own turf--and Patsy has already played that game.<br /><br />After selling his Internet consulting business, Will decided on a change. He's returned to a town he lived in briefly as a teen, and that still holds positive memories for him. He plans to connect with his roots, work with his hands, spend time with nature, and figure out what he wants to do with his life. One thing for sure, he's happy he's put ex-fiancee Cindy into his past.<br /><br />Author Lori Devoti brings the Ozark region of Missouri to life--with its small-town charm and prejudices, the kindness of its people and the hopeless wreck of its economy. Patsy's ambivalence about her hometown and her future rings true throughout the story. Throw in a caring but buttinski family and some close friends and you've got a charming romance.<br /><br />LOVE IS ALL AROUND is Devoti's first novel and a few rough edges still show, but bear with her--this is a heart-warmer.	2005-04-15
275992:US	49115690	R1R5VNFL871YU9	0060578084	497856198	Cat Cross Their Graves: A Joe Grey Mystery (Joe Grey Mysteries)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Cat mystery without the fluff--a good one	Molena Point, California is an affluent community and proud of it's retired film star, Patty Rose. When Patty is murdered, the only witness is Kit, a tortoiseshell cat. Fortunately, Kit can talk--and dial the phone. Unfortunately, she doesn't get a good look at the killer--she's got to follow him and get the evidence. With Kit vanished, fellow talking cats Joe Grey and Dulcie worry--but Joe Grey has another worry--Dulcie has been keeping secrets from him. Could another Tom have moved into town?<br /><br />The day after Patty is murdered, a woman's group turns up a child's skeleton--and evidence of more murder. And runaway child Lori hides in a secret basement under the library and worries about the strange twist in her father's reaction to her and about the dangerous people out there.<br /><br />Author Shirley Rousseau Murphy tells a dark tale of murder--both recent and in the past. Once again, the three talking cats manage to do most of the detecting--informing the police by calling line-ID protected phones. Because although Patty is dead, the murderer(s) may be seeking more victims.<br /><br />CAT CROSS THEIR GRAVES is not the usual fluffy cat mystery. Its darker themes of endangered children, deranged religious fanatics, and over-possessive paternal love are certain to disturb the reader. But the clever cats offset the dark tone and provide plenty of hope. Murphy's strong writing keeps the reader invested in the story and the cats are developing into fairly complex and three-dimensional characters.<br /><br />CAT CROSS is a different cat mystery but in this case, that doesn't mean worse. I enjoyed this story very much.	2005-04-15
277796:US	49115690	R38T90G7MGAZ7K	0373712340	75306166	The Unknown Daughter: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 1247)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fresh treatment by debut author	Carrinne Wilmington needs a liver donor to save her life. But her only known blood relative is her sixteen-year-old daughter, Maggie, and she refuses to allow Maggie to risk her life. There is one other possibility--Carrinne's father, whose identity she never knew. So Carrinne returns to her hometown of Oakwood, Georgia, to retrieve her mother's diary, in which she is sure her father's name must appear.<br /><br />Oakwood holds many unhappy memories for Carinne, and she hopes to not have to deal with them. But one of those memories--former bad boy, now Sheriff Eric Rivers--catches her trying to break into her grandfather's mansion. Eric doesn't know he has a daughter, because back when she was conceived, he broke up with Carinne declaring he wanted no responsibilities.<br /><br />The secret-baby plot is a familiar one, but Ms. DeStefano gives it a fresh treatment. Rather than milk the central conflict until it's been sucked dry, she blends it with other conflicts--with Carinne's ambivalent feelings for her dying grandfather, her daughter's rebellion, and the complex emotions regarding Carinne's own mystery father. All of the different forces bombarding Carrinne make what could have been a predictable story leap off the page with freshness and originality. This is Ms. DeStefano's debut novel, and I look forward to more from this author.	2005-04-14
278046:US	49115690	R3HURCJUG0ZOQZ	0373802137	852511342	Elphame's Choice (Luna)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Intriguing world but plot/characters need work	Born of a centaur/human relationship, Elphame has never fit in. Humans tend to think of her as the 'goddess,' rather than as just another person. So, when she has a chance to re-open the MacCallan ancestral castle, she decides to take it and to create a new future of her own. Accompanied by her brother and several dozen others, she begins to supervise the work to bring this castle back to life. Her mother hopes that both she and her brother will find love, but Elphame wonders whether love is really possible for her.<br /><br />Elphame's brother has always been a flirt, but he falls hard for the scarred healer--who thinks he is only tampering with her affections. Meanwhile, a half-demon/half-human watches her. A prophesy declares that his people can only be freed of the curse of their demon ancestry--a curse that slowly drives them toward insanity--by the blood of a dying goddess. He's sure Elphame is that goddess, but he loves her. How can he sacrifice his love, even for the good of his whole people?<br /><br />Author P.C. Cast has created a fascinating world--a world that clearly fascinates her. For my tastes, the story begins too slowly. We start with Elphame's birth and spend two hundred pages before Elphame finally meets with the half-demon who might be her love--or her destruction. The relationship between Elphame's brother and the healer could have been developed more strongly if Cast wanted it to have emotional impact--I found Brenna's whining and worrying annoying rather than sympathetic.<br /><br />Cast is a talented writer who maintains reader involvement in the story despite the plotting flaws. I did not read the earlier book in this series and it is certainly possible that much of the early portion of the book is a payoff to readers of that book. Still, I would have liked to see more reason to care about Elphame and Brenna.	2005-04-14
280489:US	49115690	RH74L3AW0X4M1	0312857586	349351971	Shadow of the Giant (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Mature & Powerful addition to Ender/Shadow series	Bean is quickly dying of giantism but the fleet has a proposal. Help Peter Wiggens set up the world government and they'll dedicate a ship to Bean, his children, and his wife. At near-light speeds, he'll be able to stay alive until their scientists can eventually find a cure for his condition--a condition that almost surely will affect his children. But Peter Wiggens' plan for a world government is a long way from accomplishment. The united Moslems defeated Chinese aggression, but now they refuse to give up their conquests, occupying India and oppressing the Hindu majority of that nation. In China, a Battle School graduate overthrows the generals who led their nation to disaster and becomes emperor. The Russians are stirring, wishing to regain their former power. Peter's appeal seems limited to a few minor and insignificant nations. But with Bean's prestige, things may get better.<br /><br />In SHADOW OF THE GIANT, Orson Scott Card continues his 'Ender' series that began with the defeat of the Hive Queen invasion. Peter, Ender's brother, continues to be ambitious, find it hard to listen, and caught up in his own plans, but even he has been able to grow--and firmly resists the temptation of power and conquest that has overcome so many of the others from Ender's group in Battle School. Bean is torn between his desperate search for his missing children, love for his wife, fear that the mutation grafted into his DNA might create a destructive new race, and his wish to leave an Earth better than the violent place it has always been.<br /><br />Orson Scott Card does an excellent job combining the political with the personal. I, and other readers, care about the characters as well as about the large-scale battles and political maneuvering. Unlike many authors, Card doesn't glory in war, but he also doesn't dismiss its power to reshape the world. With Battle School candidates selected for ambition, the former saviors of Earth have now become its greatest menace.<br /><br />Card is one of the most important and powerful writers currently active. SHADOW OF THE GIANT is a mature and powerful addition to the Ender/Shadow series./> <br />Card is one of the most important and powerful writers currently active. SHADOW OF THE GIANT is a mature and powerful addition to the Ender/Shadow series.	2005-04-12
283185:US	49115690	R1CXYV693RKCKN	0758204973	86372977	The Actor's Guide To Adultery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming and funny mystery	Former child star and now-struggling actor Jarrod Jarvis gets a call from his agent. No, he didn't get the part he'd been hoping for, but she's fallen in love and wants to invite him to the wedding. Jarrod is suspicious of the handsome actor his agent fell for, especially when his 'gaydar' seems to pick up vibes that Juan Carlos might just be more interested in Jarrod's boyfriend Charlie than in pretty Laurette.<br /><br />Things take a deadly turn when one of the guests at Laurette's wedding dies of poisoning, but Laurette puts together a movie deal for both Juan Carlos and Jarrod. On the set, Jarrod's fears are confirmed--Juan Carlos is sleeping with just about everyone. Still, being unfaithful doesn't make the man a killer--and someone out there is committing murder. Worse, a stalker from Jarrod's more famous past is back on his trail and a handsome detective is testing Jarrod's ability to stay faithful to his partner.<br /><br />Author Rich Copp charms with a funny adventure set in the strange world of Hollywood. Everything is way over the top, coincidences run rampant (although some are cleverly explained), and gay romance definitely does not run easily (but then, neither does straight romance). Jarrod makes a convincing and sympathetic first-person character as he wrestles between lust and love and worries about his (pathetic) career.<br /><br />If you're looking to take a break from the intensity of, say Elizabeth George or T. Jefferson Parker and want to just relax into a fun and funny mystery, THE ACTOR'S GUIDE TO ADULTERY is a great choice.	2005-04-10
283994:US	49115690	R3AYMBAG7VMXFY	0380977109	267891813	Exile's Return (Conclave of Shadows, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Classic sword and sorcery--a good one	Defeated by magic and arms, Kaspar, Duke of Olasko, is magically exiled to a continent so distant it has little contact with his native land. Alone, weaponless, Kaspar must contend with fearsome desert nomads, hunger, and thirst. The lessons surprise Kaspar, though. The more time he spends with people who have to work to survive, the more odd his former life seems--and the more he questions many of the choices which led him to evil. But Kaspar's trials aren't just about personal growth. When a merchant approaches him, Kaspar is thrust into a strange mystery. The merchants discovered an artifact, an animated suit of armor, that has cast a geas over them. They've got to take it somewhere--where no one knows. The only thing that is certain is that, if they take a wrong turn, another of the merchants dies.<br /><br />Burdened with the lifesized artifact, Kaspar explores a part of the world known only by mythology, meets the ghost of a long-vanished god, and chats with the god of thiefs. But then he faces the greatest challenge yet--a return to his homeland where his life will be instantly taken.<br /><br />Author Raymond E. Feist creates a fascinating and fast-moving tale. Kaspar makes a sympathetic protagonist--not all goodie-goodie, but a man with a troubled and dangerous past--and powerful enemies on both sides of the good-evil split. The chats with the gods are delightful and the growing realization of the power of the artifact--and the danger that it represents for the entire world increase the stakes for the reader.<br /><br />EXILE'S RETURN is Book Three in the CONCLAVE OF SHADOWS series but it's really not necessary to read the earlier book. One word of warning--the book ends on a cliff-hanger. I'll definitely be on the lookout for Book Four.	2005-04-09
285722:US	49115690	RL8L2582ZXW1L	0060545607	485010020	With No One As Witness (Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers Novels)	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Tension rises to almost unbearable levels	When an adolescent boy is found murdered in ritualistic fashion and left on a tomb, New Scotland Yard quickly looks for similar crimes, as the killing bears the hallmarks of a serial killer. They find other victims--several, in fact. Yet no one has paid much attention until now, and some say it's because the other victims were not white.<br /><br />With charges of racism threatening, New Scotland Yard scrambles to quickly solve the killing. Acting Superintendent Thomas Lynley and Detective Constable Barbara Havers lead the charge. Unfortunately, their efforts are hampered at every step by Assistant Commissioner David Hilliar, who is far more concerned about the department saving face than in the efficient solution to the hideous string of crimes. First Hilliar forces an unwanted profiler into their midst, then a tabloid reporter.<br /><br />Author Elizabeth George has an uncanny ability to crawl inside a character's head. She uses many, many points of view and as always weaves the various investigators' personal lives into their professional ones, and never once does the reader become confused because the characters are so strongly, realistically drawn. As always, contemporary London is so well drawn that I feel as if I could go there tomorrow and feel perfectly at home.<br /><br />As investigators gather the clues and draw closer, the tension rises to almost unbearable levels, with the conclusion of the mystery suitably dramatic and unexpected.<br /><br />The one thing that kept me from giving this book an unreserved five stars is that it's sad. Not just sad because adolescent boys are being murdered, but sad because of all the things going on in the characters' personal lives--things that go terribly wrong and can never be right again. Lives shattered, utterly ruined. Because the people are so real to me, I grieve right along with them, and I will feel sad every time I think of this book for a long time to come.	2005-04-07
286493:US	49115690	R1RCCNG2OUL6XN	0805074678	235565854	The Courage to Write: How Writers Transcend Fear	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fears in detail--this is a good one.	Writers' lives are littered with fears, all kinds of fears. There's the fear of the blank page. The fear that you've run out of ideas. The fear of revealing yourself to others. The fear of rejection. The fear of criticism. The fear of getting a bad cover, for heaven's sake. And that's just the tip of the iceberg.<br /><br />In Part I of this highly readable book, Ralph Keyes goes over every possible writer's fear in detail, because understanding fear, and knowing how common it is, are two steps toward functioning alongside it. Part II covers some strategies for dealing with fear, and even using it as a tool. (If you aren't afraid, you're probably not stretching and growing as a writer.) A terrific book for writers of any stripe at any level	2005-04-07
287933:US	49115690	R2MW32WEYOQCFL	0060591781	378357648	The Serpent on the Crown (Amelia Peabody Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Entertaining and funny Egypt mystery	World War I is over, Egypt seethes with revolution, and the great Egyptologists are busy at work, stuck in the middle of the transformation between pure treasure-finders and serious archeologists. The now-aging Amelia Peabody and her family are confronted with a mysterious woman who insists that her husband was killed by a curse--a curse attached to a mysterious gold statue. Peabody, her husband Emerson, and her extended clan know plenty about curses, but something about this curse seems faked--perhaps to draw attention to the widow--a famous author. Still, there's no doubting the authenticity of the statue. More to the point, the statue seems connected to that mysterious period in Egyptian history when the ancient religion underwent a revolution.<br /><br />While Emerson attempts to pursue multiple digs, partially motivated by a wish to find the source of the beautiful statue, his son, Ramses, works with ancient papyrus. Peabody tries to help everyone, at the same time looking to explore the mystery of the author--who suddenly vanishes. And, as Peabody's long-dead dream-advisor reminds her, a season in Egypt is never complete without at least one body--sure enough, a body shows up.<br /><br />Author Elizabeth Peters writes evocatively of the interwar period. World War I is a recent memory and its damage is still felt by many of its survivors. Modern grave looters and treasure finders are everywhere, even among respected archeologists. The role of women is changing, but Victorian morals and definitions of 'society' are still strong and only slowly fading.<br /><br />THE SERPENT ON THE CROWN is an entertaining and funny mystery, especially for fans of the Elizabeth Peters series. Peters tones down the frequent admiration of Emerson's broad chest (although giving us enough of it to recognize Peabody's voice) and concentrates on family, Egypt, and mystery. I greatly prefer the Amelia Peabody mysteries that deal directly with archeology and Egypt rather than ranging abroad, and SERPENT fits this mold. SERPENT might not be the best book as an introduction to the Emerson/Peabody adventure, but it's a welcome addition to the family.nging abroad, and SERPENT fits this mold. SERPENT might not be the best book as an introduction to the Emerson/Peabody adventure, but it's a welcome addition to the family.	2005-04-06
288936:US	49115690	R1TL1X031HW0M5	0765302209	367477869	To Light a Candle: The Obsidian Trilogy, Book Two (The Obsidian Mountain Trilogy)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Exciting high fantasy with a few issues	When Knightmage Kellen breaks the barrier that has kept rain from the elf kingdom, he knows it's only a small victory in the new war against the dark. The demons of darkness respond quickly, attacking elves with monster-wolves and, when the elves attempt to move their children to a guarded fortress, kidnap the son of the elf-King. Now Kellen must lead a rescue party--but how can he expect to prevail against a mysterious force that has already destroyed the strong guard over the children?<br /><br />What Kellen finds is an entire civilization--elves somehow corrupted by the darkness. He and the elves agree that they must be eliminated, but the genocide will take time--and Kellen knows that the demons have plans to use that time.<br /><br />In the great city of Armethalieh, the demon's secret emisary continues his work in undermining the mages' affiliation with the light. If he can divide these humans from their traditional elf allies and the wild mages, darkness's triumph becomes inevitable. Political distraction amongst the leading mages, and a few well-placed hints and threats let Anegrel move up in the ranks, to become a leader--and the adopted son of the city's chief mage. With the elves distracted and the mage council's mind poisoned against the wild magic and the elves, darkness stands at the verge of victory.<br /><br />Authors Mercedes Lackey and James Mallory continue their high-fantasy in a world where each defeat of darkness leaves the elves and the other hosts of light weaker and less able to continue the battle. Kellen shows increasing maturity as he understands his strengths as well as his weaknesses and forces himself to confront his deepest fears. Adding to the stories interest, Lackey and Mallory add another victim of the city's banishment--a young high-mage used by Anegrel. Cilarnen is a distorted image of Kellen--the man he was supposed to be--and the two grow through contact with one another.<br /><br />Fans of this series will welcome the exciting second book. There's plenty of action, lots of unicorns, the introduction of a dragon, the first elf-mage in three ages, and a deeper understanding of the magic system underlying the Lackey/Mallory world. I had a few problems with the story, however. First, I thought the immediate decision that the shadowed elves could only be genocided was harsh. Given that they'd already determined that the daughter of a demon could serve the light, how could they be so certain that none of the shadowed elves, not even the babies, could be saved? The elves realization that the shadowed elves were their cousins made this logic failure even stronger. Second, the demons seem too willing to sacrifice their pawns for no benefit at all. Even if they didn't value them as beings, surely they would want them to be more effective in the battle against the elves.<br /><br />Although these flaws occasionally pulled me out of the story, strong writing, plenty of adventure, and a powerful magic system tugged me back in.the exciting second book. There's plenty of action, lots of unicorns, the introduction of a dragon, the first elf-mage in three ages, and a deeper understanding of the magic system underlying the Lackey/Mallory world. I had a few problems with the story, however. First, I thought the immediate decision that the shadowed elves could only be genocided was harsh. Given that they'd already determined that the daughter of a demon could serve the light, how could they be so certain that none of the shadowed elves, not even the babies, could be saved? The elves realization that the shadowed elves were their cousins made this logic failure even stronger. Second, the demons seem too willing to sacrifice their pawns for no benefit at all. Even if they didn't value them as beings, surely they would want them to be more effective in the battle against the elves.  <br /> <br />Although these flaws occasionally pulled me out of the story, strong writing, plenty of adventure, and a powerful magic system tugged me back in.	2005-04-05
290894:US	49115690	R3LL9ERZM1AWX4	0312319169	863828045	Company Man	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Page-turner weaves personal and business dangers	A few years back, Nick Conover was the darling of Wall Street. But in the face of competition from China, he's had to cut back, laying off half the ten thousand employees who once worked for the office furniture company where he's the CEO. Nicknamed 'Slash,' Nick faces a town full of enemies. Despite the gated community where he lives, he's being harassed. Someone has broken into his house and spraypainted a cryptic message on his wall. When someone (that same someone?) murders his dog and throws the body in the pool, Nick knows he's got to protect his family--he installs a new security system and borrows a loaner gun from his company security director. Still, what will he do when confronted with an actual invader--with his children at stake?<br /><br />Thousands of layoffs haven't been enough to make his company successful. With poor earnings, the investment company that owns his company starts sending in new directors, making new rules. Customers start canceling orders when they hear rumors that the company is going to move overseas. At first Nick dismisses the rumors, but eventually he realizes that there may well be a plot afoot--a plot that will break every promise he's ever made.<br /><br />Author Joseph Finder weaves together the corporate takeover story and the story of Nick attempting to protect his family even as everything seems to take turns for the worse. His teenaged son is rebelling and experimenting with drugs. His wife was killed in a car accident, but Nick insists on turning his house into a shrine for her memory. Only one woman seems to respond to Nick--and if she ever learns his horrible secret, Nick knows she'll hate him too.<br /><br />COMPANY MAN reads like a movie script--each decision leading inevitably to a catastrophy until it seems impossible that Nick and his family can survive--only for things to take another turn for the worse. Finder's strong writing makes Nick sympathetic despite a number of strikes against him (readers of the business press know that CEOs really should pay closer attention to the numbers, and everyone should make more rational decisions when faced with personal catastrophy). Police detective Audrey Rhimes makes a strong secondary character with her combination of innocence and strength. In contrast, Scott, Todd, and the other evil corporate types come off a bit flat--and Nick's stakes in the corporate struggle don't really grab the reader's emotion.<br /><br />Readers who (like me) enjoy fast-paced thriller action will find COMPANY MAN a hard book to put down. I confess, I read it in a single sitting.he business press know that CEOs really should pay closer attention to the numbers, and everyone should make more rational decisions when faced with personal catastrophy). Police detective Audrey Rhimes makes a strong secondary character with her combination of innocence and strength. In contrast, Scott, Todd, and the other evil corporate types come off a bit flat--and Nick's stakes in the corporate struggle don't really grab the reader's emotion.  <br /> <br />Readers who (like me) enjoy fast-paced thriller action will find COMPANY MAN a hard book to put down. I confess, I read it in a single sitting.	2005-04-04
291698:US	49115690	R2E2TPW0N6DRR5	0821777475	824550770	Cut From The Same Cloth (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	59	63	N	N	A perfect fit	With her family's finances in ruins, Lady Elizabeth Hampton (Izzie) knows there's only one possible answer. She must marry, and marry well enough to pay off the debts and secure a future for her younger sister and twin brother. The fact that her affluent objectives have disturbing habits like bad poetry, lack of backbone, and male corsets must not be allowed to disuade her. For certain, she can't let Valen, Lord St. Cleve, the man who welcomes her brother and himself into his London home, win her heart. He may be handsome, but his limited estate would do nothing to rescue her family.<br /><br />Valen can't understand the fascination Izzie holds for him. She's snooty, exactly like the aristocrats he holds in such contempt, obsessed with money, and too abrupt with her sharp wit. That he finds himself obsessing over her can only mean that he finds her completely horrible. Yet, there is something about her that he finds quite compelling.<br /><br />That initial attraction is enough for Valen's aunt Honore to work with. Honore, being from the pre-Regency generation, doesn't mind putting aside proprieties in order to set a relationship in the right direction and she knows that Valen needs a woman who can be his equal, stand up to his occasionally overbearing ways and break him of his certainty. And when Honore is on the warpath, nothing can get in the way. Certainly not Valen and Izzie's continual attempts to persuade themselves that the attraction doesn't exist. But England has worse enemies than aristocratic indulgencies--including an evil French spy--a spy intent on destroying both England and the growing feelings between Izzie and Valen.<br /><br />Author Katheleen Baldwin delivers a funny and clever comedy of manners and misunderstanding. Valen is the perfect angry hero and Izzie just the woman to tame him. The sewing motif running through the story adds a bit of spice to the humor and plays a role in the plot and character development as well.<br /><br />Fans of the regency romance will definitely find CUT FROM THE SAME CLOTH a perfect fit.>Fans of the regency romance will definitely find CUT FROM THE SAME CLOTH a perfect fit.	2005-04-03
294845:US	49115690	R28IIF5QR9TELS	0312337124	391440964	The Depths of Solitude: A Brodie Farrell Mystery	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Unsympathetic character weakens appeal	Brodie Farrell is saddened that her friend David has abandoned her, driven away by her failure to understand the decisions he made. But when she attempts to find him, she suddenly finds terrible things happening to her. A brick hits her car as she drives under a bridge. Her purse is stolen while she's sitting at a pub. Then her car is firebombed. Could David be so angry that he'd kill her rather than face her? Certainly Brodie can think of no other enemy.<br /><br />Brodie's problems escalate even after she finds David and persuades herself that her gentle friend could have nothing to do with the problems she's had. She's attacked in her house and her ex-husband, sent to guard her, is injured. Boyfriend and Police Detective Superintendent Jack Deacon, along with sidekick Sergeant Charlie Voss try to help, but Deacon starts to wonder whether Brodie really is the target. Could the attack on her be some sort of perverted attempt to strike at Deacon?<br /><br />Author Jo Bannister creates interesting characters in Deacon and Voss. Unfortunately, I found Brodie less compelling. Her narrowmindedness proves annoying, but not nearly as annoying as her risk-taking behavior. If she clearly recognized the risks and then decided to move forward, I could have admired her for her courage. Instead, she seems blindly to walk into danger--for herself and for others. Fortunately, Bannister clearly tells us how lovable and admirable Brodie is. Without this, I'm pretty sure I wouldn't have guessed.<br /><br />THE DEPTHS OF SOLITUDE has its engaging moments and held my interest as a reader. Its flaws, however, make reading this story a mixed experience.	2005-03-31
297418:US	49115690	RU3Z821FBGHNV	0373750625	752527947	Rachel's Cowboy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Studly cowboys and warm-hearted family. Cool!	After a brief affair, Rachel Barlow learned exactly where she stood with handsome cowboy J. D. Stanley. He was happy to take a beautiful model to bed, but he didn't have any interest in a long-term relationship. Which was all right with her. She had to keep working, to replace the money her 'mother' had stolen from her. She had no place in her busy life for a cowboy--no matter that her body continued to complain that she'd never had loving like that before--and didn't think she would again.<br /><br />J. D. Stanley has had one ambition in life--to buy the ranch his father managed and he managed. Now he's accomplished his goal, but he can't get beautiful Rachel out of his mind. When Rachel falls sick and can't be near her pregnant sisters, J.D. hears himself volunteering his ranch to get her healthy. He'll stay away, he promises himself. But he doesn't know how hard staying away can be--even if he does know there can be no future between a model who sleeps until ten and a cowboy who awakens at dawn.<br /><br />Stuck on the ranch, Rachel throws herself into learning ranch skills. They won't help a model much, but horseback riding, caring for young cattle, and cooking for hungry ranch hands have their own satisfaction. Unfortunately, they also let her spend time with J.D. and with every moment, he takes more and more of her heart. How can she stand the knowledge that she is just his temporary inconvenience?<br /><br />Author Judy Christenberry made her mark at Harlequin American with her stories of studly cowboys and the warm-hearted extended family that exists in rural America. Now she combines the cowboy with the lost and found Barstow family. Rachel is a strong heroine with drive, goals, and enough energy to overwhelm the defenses of even the strongest cowboy. J.D. never knows what hit him--but he does know he wants more of it. Christenberry's many fans will definitely want to buy this fine tale.	2005-03-29
301009:US	49115690	R1T47DVP68UOHG	0373274327	804656957	To Love, Honor, and Defend (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1362)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Heartwarming debut novel	Cal Walters has only once chance to reclaim his four-year-old daughter from his drug-addicted ex-wife in a custody hearing. But given that he is an ex-con, his chances don't look good--unless he can convince a judge he really is a model citizen. And what better way than to be married to a prosecutor? And what better prosecutor than his ex-girlfriend, Libby Hopkins, whose heart he shattered?<br /><br />Libby agrees to a marriage of convenience for the sake of the child, but she intends for Cal to keep his hands off her. But soon she finds their old attraction rearing its head, and she and Cal must find their way to a deeper understanding of the problems that ripped them apart before theirs can become a real marriage.<br /><br />In her debut novel, Beth Cornelison explores the many facets of betrayal, the many faces of guilt and innocence, and a world where nothing is black and white. Her portrayal of this complex relationship goes well beyond the problem of simple forgiveness, delving deep into the characters' hearts so that they forge a new understanding that has the reader truly believing this relationship can last. As a bonus, the character of Cal's daughter, Ally, is heartwarming and realistic. I even liked the cat.	2005-03-26
301030:US	49115690	R2OBB35HOLE3Z0	0743416910	486202881	Burning Tower	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Enjoyable 'end of magic' fantasy	Thousands of years ago, the magic is running out. Although the firegod Yangin-Atep has 'gone mythical,' and manna is slowly seeping back into Tep's Town, throughout the world, manna is being used and once used, it cannot be replenished. But a few sources remain--and trade in manna-enabled objects remains central to the economies of the cities of what is now California. When huge birds begin attacking caravans and cutting off this trade, the leaders of Tep's Town send Sandry, a young lord, along with Burning Tower (the woman he loves), her half-sister and coyote-sired Clever Squirrel, as well as some mercenaries and a couple of 'Lordkin' to determine the source of the problem and to re-open the vital trade in magic.<br /><br />Terror birds had been known to caravaneers for ages, but never before had they organized. Clever Squirrel determines the only possible solution--they are being controlled by a god. But what god would want to destroy the profitable trade in manna-enriched items? And what can their trading party do against the power of a god? Their journey takes them across California and what is now the southwest U.S. to the mythical city of Aztlan--from whence Aztec culture descended. There's plenty of action and some clever plot twists along the way.<br /><br />Authors Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle continue the saga begun in THE BURNING CITY. The 'end of magic' motif adds poignancy to the story--and creates a bit of moral ambiguity as Sandry and Burning Tower learn the motives behind the terror bird attacks.<br /><br />BURNING TOWER is a solid and enjoyable adventure. I did think that the relationship stuff felt a bit like an add-on, designed to make the book appeal to the teenaged girl audience. It was easy enough to tune out, though, and didn't detract from the story.<br /><br />Three Stars	2005-03-26
306089:US	49115690	R2QM6WPD0X30K9	0060575840	10629762	The Executioner's Game	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Plenty of action--worth the read	Assassin Luther Green is a patriot. He serves his country in the way he knows best--by following orders and by killing those who are deemed a threat to the nation. When he's called back to headquarters, he knows this won't be a routine kill. Still, he's startled to learn that his next assignment is the man who brought him into E-1, the secret agency responsible for America's ultimate sanctions. Alex had trained him, inspired him, but now he's a threat to the country--and Luther knows how to follow orders. The only problem is, something about this particular job stinks.<br /><br />It doesn't take Luther long to realize that he's following a trail that Alex has carefully laid down. Alex is trying to teach Luther something, show him something about E-1 that would prove that the Agency has gone off-wire. Luther isn't buying, and even if he did, he's been assigned a job and he intends to complete it.<br /><br />Alex's trail takes him through the inner cities of Baltimore, Philadelphia, and finally Detroit--cities where drugs and guns cheapen life to the point where professional assassins fit right in. Alex's message is getting through, but Luther has sacrificed his entire life to his country and isn't about to be stopped. Only when the true coverup becomes known can Luther confront the real enemy.<br /><br />Author Gary Hardwick delivers an exciting story of assassination, martial arts action, and inner-city drama. Making Luther a black protagonist in a profession dominated by whites adds to the conflict--and heightens his sense of betrayal when the secrets are finally revealed.<br /><br />Hardwick's writing is occasionally clunky, but mostly workmanlike, moving the story along while deepening the reader's interest and buy-in to the characters. Overall, THE EXECUTIONER'S GAME is definitely worth the read.	2005-03-22
306752:US	49115690	R26DTM8LUKSYRA	0060735023	396458551	Lost Lake	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Couldn't put it down	During Vietnam, a powerful general ran a secret, elite unit of spies and assassins to carry out his private agendas--which included the murder of a United States senator. At least, that's what his daughter, Vanessa Kohler, has maintained for many years. But no one believes Vanessa, who has a history of serious mental illness. She's written off as paranoid, a crank--and the fact she works as a tabloid reporter doesn't elevate her reputation any.<br /><br />Now Vanessa catches a glimpse of a man on the TV news, a man she thought long dead. He is one of her father's assassins. And if he is still alive, he is the one person who could prove the Unit existed. But the man, Carl Rice, now living under an assumed name, has his own problems--namely that he's been charged with attempted murder for intervening in a Little League game when a parent physically threatened the coach. He stuck a ballpoint pen in the guy's throat.<br /><br />Caught in the middle of all this is single-mom lawyer Ami Vergano, who is Carl's landlord. The man has been nothing but gentle and friendly until this incident. So when Vanessa comes to her with her wild claims, demanding that Ami represent Carl, she tries to get out of it. But the more she hears, the more intrigued she becomes. There is a thread of truth to what Vanessa's story. And Ami, though she is not a criminal attorney, gets sucked in to the drama, all the while trying to protect herself and her young son.<br /><br />This is a first-rate thriller reminiscent of the movie Conspiracy Theory. Sometimes paranoids have enemies, and sometimes they're not imagining things. It's easy to sympathize with Vanessa even as she makes one poor choice after another in her quest to prove her father, now a presidential candidate, is a cold-blooded murderer. Even Carl, a trained killer, is made sympathetic. I really could not put this book down.	2005-03-21
306854:US	49115690	R3SM6E9GNC6V3H	0060536683	987464885	The Not-So-Perfect Man	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Closely woven 3-sisters story	The three Schast sisters have three very different relationship problems. Gallery owner Frieda, widowed with a young son, still grieves for her beloved Gregg, so that every eligible man she meets falls short because he is instantly \\"not Gregg.\\" Ilene, who claims to be deliriously happy with husband Peter, has lost her desire for her husband and is resentful toward him because he has become a compulsive eater and has gained forty pounds. She copes by trying to manage and control everyone else's lives. Little sister Betty hides behind a wall of excess weight, secret sexual fantasies, and biting humor.<br /><br />Then Frieda meets Sam, a sexy, younger actor to whom she is so strongly attracted she can't think of anything but having sex with him. And since he's the first man she's met who isn't instantly \\"not Gregg,\\" she succumbs, though her sisters strongly disapprove. As Ilene's marriage teeters on the brink of disaster, her husband sets out to improve himself (and Peter is more the protagonist in this subplot than Ilene is). And Betty meets a man who wants to improve her. Betty and Peter become diet buddies.<br /><br />I've read a lot of \\"three sisters\\" books, but I've never seen one quite as well-blended as this one. Each sister's story is so closely woven with the others that it would be impossible to remove any of them without destroying the book. The sibling relationships ring true. This is not a hilarious, over-the-top chick lit as the cover and back-cover copy might indicate, but it will make you smile--and perhaps even cry on occasion. The ending was perfectly matched to the theme of the book, which is that no human being is perfect, and no one's relationship is perfect, and sometimes you just have to accept the good with the bad--yet you can still be happy.	2005-03-21
307320:US	49115690	R3BH2URW2YMTV	1556226373	3593767	Delphi Graphics And Game Programming Exposed! With DirectX	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Code is on publisher website	I recently bought this book and it is, as several reviewers say, out of date (not the author's fault although it would be nice if the publisher came out with an updated version). Several reviewers also, however, comment that the book is worthless because the Delphi 4 version does not come with the key. This is a problem. However, the authorization code is available on the publisher website ([...] Of course, Borland has come out with several versions of Delphi since then but Delphi 4 is still a good compiler and a great way to start up with Delphi (especially if you aren't wanting to get into .NET right away).<br /><br />I'm pleased that I bought this book and am looking forward to experimenting with the code. As author Ayres points out, he's trying to equip us to write shareware games, not become professional game developers for slave-labor game shops.	2005-03-21
308112:US	49115690	R3FYTT5E2JFX0S	0743498933	68615930	The Course of Empire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well written and fascinating tale of future conquest	Although it was conquered twenty years earlier, Earth remains restive--and the cruel and unimaginative Jao governor manages to stir up resistance--which he ruthlessly but casually puts down. With control of space, the Jao cannot really be threatened by humans--but they can prevent the Jao from using the planet's resources for their own conflict. And the Jao do have a problem--the Ekhat race threatens to overwhelm the entire galaxy, eliminating all other life. Survival requires humans to work together with the Jao--but the Jao governor seems to have eliminated that possibility.<br /><br />Into the equation comes Aille, a high-status Jao who has been assigned as sub-commander, responsible for ground-based planetary defenses. Aille upsets the equilibrium established by the Jao governor, accepting both Jao and humans into his 'personal service,' and looking for ways that human technology and tactics can add to the Jao ways rather than requiring humans to become the type of mini-Jao that other conquered species became. But by doing so, Aille simply earns himself the hatred of the planetary governor. Disobeying orders will make Aille outlaw and destroy everything he's worked for, but following orders seems to lead to an even worse situation.<br /><br />Authors Eric Flint and K. D. Wentworth combine to deliver a fascinating tale of colliding cultures. Flint and Wentworth personalize their story with multidimensional characters--both Jao and human, giving the reader an emotional stake in the outcome. Their descriptions of Jao customs and communications patterns add interest and deepens the story.<br /><br />The role of empire, whether human or alien, is complex with the conquering people being influenced by their conquests as well as influencing them. Flint and Wentworth have obviously given this subject a lot of thought--adding to the richness of their world-building and reader interest.<br /><br />I have no hesitation in recommending THE COURSE OF EMPIRE.	2005-03-20
309232:US	49115690	R1R4U1EEOERD2V	0345441249	19657269	Dragonsblood (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	3	12	20	N	N	Lots of action but lack's Anne McCaffrey's strong characters	Talented artist and healer Lorana thinks it strange when a dragon begins to cough--dragons simply don't get sick. When her fire-lizards come down with the same symptoms, it goes beyond strange. The dragons are the first line of the planet's defense against the life-destroying threads from the red star. As disease spreads among the dragons just as the thread begins to fall, things look grim for the future of the planet.<br /><br />Fortunately for Lorana and the people of Pern, the biologists and ecologists who first colonized Pern and created the dragons had contemplated the possibility of disease. When one of Lorana's fire-dragons goes back across time to these ancestors, they realize they must find some way to send a message across time to their future--to save the planet.<br /><br />Author Todd McCaffrey follows in his mother's footsteps in writing of the Dragonriders of Pern. In fact, many elements of DRAGONSBLOOD are painfully familiar--the bitchy senior Queen-rider, the use of sudden 'discovery' of timing to increase effective dragon-power at key moments, the notion of a solution encrypted in an ancient Harper song. What are missing from DRAGONSBLOOD are the truly fascinating characters that Anne McCaffrey developed--and that made the original Dragonrider series so powerful.<br /><br />Todd McCaffrey does attempt to address some of the mysteries and open ends of the earlier novels in the series--the origin of the dragonrider who ended up lost in stones after being caught 'between' and possibly the absence of fire-lizards from the early books in the series when they had been known earlier, for example. I do, however, have to question how the use of 'timing' could possibly have been lost if it was so widely known during the time of this story. Surely it was too important an element of the dragonrider arsenal to be simply forgotten. Also, the connection between Lorana and the ancestral scientists seemed to rely too much on coincidence.<br /><br />DRAGONSBLOOD has plenty of action, conflict, and cute fire-lizards. This is far from the strongest book in the series (start with the first six which are all excellent). But fans of the Dragonriders, like myself, will be happy to see that McCaffrey's tradition is being continued across the generations.NSBLOOD has plenty of action, conflict, and cute fire-lizards. This is far from the strongest book in the series (start with the first six which are all excellent). But fans of the Dragonriders, like myself, will be happy to see that McCaffrey's tradition is being continued across the generations.	2005-03-19
309326:US	49115690	R15OS6EW9D6065	0312321155	635402028	Taking the Wrap : A Mandy Dyer Mystery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Highly enjoyable and funny mystery	It starts out as a straightforward dry cleaning problem. Mandy Dyer's cousin had a coat switched at a restaurant and she wants to get her own coat back. But when cousin Laura is involved in a hit-and-run as she leaves the dry cleaners, Mandy wonders if it could truly be coincidence. Coincidence is stretched past breaking when Mandy walks into an in-progress burglary at her cousin's apartment. With her matchmaking mother riding to the rescue, a hopelessly nerdy reporter falling for Laura, and a hunky detective causing problems for Mandy's heart, the problems look to be getting worse in a hurry.<br /><br />Photographer Laura's restaurant photos seem a likely starting point. But who would have guessed that a small restaurant could cause so many problems--a man dining with a woman who isn't his wife, another couple confronted with news of the woman's unexpected pregnancy, a woman stood-up by her business partners, and a strange ghost-like double-exposure which could be just about anyone. Mandy presses on in her investigation--although occasionally her motives are more to get away from her mother than to solve the crime.<br /><br />Author Dolores Johnson delivers a spunky heroine, amusing characters and dialogue, a very different background for her sleuth (I haven't seen any other dry-cleaner/detectives) and a well-written story. I enjoyed TAKING THE WRAP a lot.	2005-03-19
314604:US	49115690	R19TFKPPU0IYV0	082177753X	517619914	Hot Stuff	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Delightful screwball romantic comedy	Usually, being a translator means sitting in an office looking at legal documents. This time, though, Tempe Walsh actually gets to go to Bombay, India, where she intends to help an American art collector negotiate the purchase of a famous statue--a statue of an Indian Goddess which comes attached to both a blessing and a curse. Unfortunately for Tempe, there are plenty of other prospective 'buyers' and none of them, including the man she's working for, would mind getting the statue at a bargain price--even if that meant stealing, stabbing, or shooting.<br /><br />Tempe meets up with a handsome Irish rogue who takes time out from his own thefts to attempt to sweet-talk her into his bed, and the two are quickly swept into an adventure that involves Tempe posing as a stripper in two separate clubs, dancing and performing the splits for a Bollywood movie production ('Bollywood' is the term used to describe the Indian film industry which mostly consists of song-and-dance numbers), kidnapping, late night fire drills, and lots more time spent with the handsome Briggan O'Brien.<br /><br />Author Flo Fitzpatrick serves up a delightful mix of screwball comedy, adventure, an exotic foreign locale, and romance. Fitzpatrick seems to delight in breaking the rules--her first book was set in the theater and her second in India, in the entertainment business, with snakes and elephants for secondary characters. Fortunately, it works.<br /><br />Congratulations to Zebra for taking a chance, but most of all, congratulations to Flo Fitzpatrick for creating such an entertaining romp. I am very happy to recommend HOT STUFF highly.	2005-03-15
316849:US	49115690	R3L13S6ZHMRTKO	0060564644	646479669	Hissy Fit	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Strong writing and funny/tragic story	Upscale interior designer Keeley Murdock is all set to marry her longtime sweetheart, A.J. Jernigan, in what was to be the wedding of the decade, every details lovingly seen to by Keely herself. Plans changed, however, when Keeley catches A.J. and her best friend doing the deed at the rehearsal dinner. Keeley throws a hissy fit not soon to be forgotten in the proper southern town of Madison, Georgia, a fit that included destruction of property and vulgar language.<br /><br />A.J. and his wealthy family don't take it well, and they try to drive Keeley out of business. Her salvation comes in the form of uber-wealthy new client Will Mahoney, who has just acquired the local bra factory and is intent on bringing it back to its former glory. Of more interest to Keeley, however, is the crumbling antebellum mansion he also bought. He wants Mulberry Hill lovingly restored, and money is no object. The catch? He wants the house designed around the tastes of one Stephanie Scofield, a woman he hasn't yet met. His goal is to get her to fall in love with his house--and him--and settle down in Madison.<br /><br />Predictably, Keeley falls in love with the house and knows exactly how it should be restored. Unfortunately, her tastes don't jibe with the reprehensible Stephanie's, who turns out to be a money-grubbing, social-climbing witch interested only in Will's bank account. Keeley also starts to feel more than professional toward Will himself, and the house becomes a battleground of wills.<br /><br />Threaded through this funny, satirical story is a subplot involving the disappearance of Keeley's mother 25 years earlier, which is tragic and sad and not at all funny.<br /><br />As with Mary Kay Andrews's previous books, the style is so engaging that I just didn't really care where the plot was going. She can spend pages and pages describing the decorating scheme for a foyer and somehow make it compelling, at least to anyone who loves decorating, antiques, and old houses. I love the relationships in Keeley's life, particularly her gay florist friend Austin, her Aunt Gloria, and her father, who is finally dating again. Points off for the fact that the subplot had absolutely nothing to do with the main plot, though it was an intriguing mystery.. I love the relationships in Keeley's life, particularly her gay florist friend Austin, her Aunt Gloria, and her father, who is finally dating again. Points off for the fact that the subplot had absolutely nothing to do with the main plot, though it was an intriguing mystery.	2005-03-13
317269:US	49115690	R3TI49659RCJRL	1575667584	39459191	Jingle Bell Bark (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Strong writing, great character	Melanie Travis has enough to do over the holiday season without worrying about murder. She has a son to shop for, an expecting sister-in-law, a poodle to prepare for all-important showings, a girlfriend to straighten out on buying a respectable dog, and a relationship to get right. When the favorite schoolbus driver is found dead, all Melanie intends to do is make sure his dogs get a proper home. But getting the dogs the right home gets complicated when the driver's daughters roll into town--intent on putting the dogs up for auction (because one of their parents' was a champion, the daughters assumes that the dogs must be highly valuable). The only way Melanie's Aunt Peg figures to get rid of the daughters is to solve the mystery herself. Of course, Aunt Peg's way of solving mysteries turns out to involve a lot of sending Melanie out to do the work.<br /><br />Author Laurien Berenson does an excellent job combining an interesting character with humor and mystery. Melanie, with her relationship issues, and her obsession with her standard poodles draws the reader in largely because she is a typical suburban mom--caught between a job, her child, and a hobby that demands so much of her time. In Berenson books, the mystery plays second fiddle--it isn't that it isn't being worked on, it's just that the mystery has to come after Melanie takes care of her son and her poodles.<br /><br />In JINGLE BELL BARK, Berenson makes the combination click. I've enjoyed a number of other novels in this series, but BARK seems to put togther the combination of character, humor, and strong writing even better than the earlier novels. Berenson's writing hooks the reader early and keeps us involved with the story.<br /><br />I have no hesitation in recommending JINGLE BELL BARK to anyone looking for a light mystery.	2005-03-13
318346:US	49115690	R1VRRY9I5NL2XD	0765312131	598325741	Ordermaster (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Solid addition to the Recluse Saga	Former cooper Kharl is now Lord Kharl and a powerful mage. But his new kingdom is threatened by revolt and when Kharl punishes a lying traitor, civil war breaks out. Kharl must face both enemy lords and powerful white mages from Hamor, an expansionistic and interfering kingdom. As frequently happens, success in the civil war only means more trouble for Kharl. The King, Lord Ghrant, drafts Kharl as his ambassador to Lord West--his native country.<br /><br />As ambassador, Kharl faces more of the same threats--even larger numbers of interfering Hamor white mages, large numbers of Hamor and local troops, and a family of rulers who seem intent on self-destruction, betrayal, and abuse of the population. As ambassador, Kharl cannot simply use his order magic to kill badguys and straighten out the system--his new nation would be seen as interfering as Hamor. Still, he cannot sit by and let Hamor turn West into a puppet.<br /><br />Author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. continues his Recluse Saga with a solid adventure. With his casual training, Kharl must study THE BASIS OF ORDER to learn what even the most ignorant Recluse mage would know. But by doing so, Kharl is able to develop talents that Recluse might have thought impossible. A bit of romance and Kharl's powerful moral sense adds to the story's appeal.<br /><br />It's hard to go wrong with a Recluse story and Modesitt delivers a page-turning adventure. Because this story was a sequel, however, Kharl's personal growth was less than might be expected in a novel--he had already grown in the earlier book.<br /><br />Fantasy fans like me will welcome the newest solid addition to the Recluse family.	2005-03-12
322988:US	49115690	R26J629ARF3ASA	0060198311	609892895	All the Flowers Are Dying (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Chilling but human serial killer	Matthew Scudder has been sober for years now, has settled down and married, but he still attends his AA meetings, and still feels the attraction of alcohol. When a friend asks him to research her new boyfriend, Scudder discovers how easy it is to disappear in the big city. But then another friend is murdered and Scudder's discovery takes on a horrid new light. Someone is out there, hidden among the millions of New Yorkers--and whoever it is, they seem to have targetted Scudder or his wife.<br /><br />Arne Bodinson (or whatever his real name is) is just visiting Virginia to see a condemned man live out his last days on death row. Pretending to believe the man is innocent despite the evidence against him, Arne manages to have himself invited to the execution itself. It's just an added bit of pleasure for Bodinston--who set up the evidence just to show he could. And now he's on his way to New York where he has business to complete--business that has waited a long time.<br /><br />Author Laurence Block makes his characters come to life. Both Scudder and Bodinson are intricately drawn, driven by their own demons, compelled by forces outside of their control. Bodinson thinks of himself as the perfect criminal, making sure he leaves no trace of evidence behind him even as he is driven to kill again and again. Scudder knows that alcohol is his downfall, but he still feels the lure despite his years of sobriety. Readers who have followed Scudder through the volumes know how thin is his layer of control.<br /><br />Block has written extensively on writing as well as writing a number of best-selling mysteries. His technical competence shines through his work, but it is his characters--especially his male characters--who really create interest.<br /><br />If you're looking for a solid mystery with a convincingly human but evil antagonist, ALL THE FLOWERS ARE DYING will be a treat.	2005-03-08
323567:US	49115690	R13JBW5WUG3978	0060530510	236428143	The Last Kingdom (The Saxon Chronicles Series #1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fascinating historical/military fiction	The Norsemen raided the English kingdoms for decades, but in 866, they attempt outright conquest. Huge armies of Danes descend first on Northumbria, then Mercia, then East Anglia, until only Wessex, the richest Saxon kingdom and the most southern, survives. And the Danes plan that Wessex will be next. After everyone else has fallen before them, few doubt that Wessex will fall--and English culture will be eliminated from the world. But King Alfred isn't willing to give up so easily.<br /><br />Early in the invasion, Uhtred of Northumbria is captured by the Danes. For his ten-year-old bravery after his father is killed in battle, the Danes adopt him, raise him, and teach him to fight. He adopts their religion--which is the religion of his ancestors although the English had adopted Christianity after their conquest of most of Britain--their fighting ways, and their casual attitudes toward sex. But when his adoptive father is killed in a feud, Uhtred flees to Wessex where he is welcomed by Alfred and put to work. Although his kingdom is under threat, already Alfred plans on a time when the Danes will be defeated. He wants Northumbrian, Angliacan, and Mercian noblemen under his banner--under his control.<br /><br />Author Bernard Cornwell personalizes a mostly historical tale with the fictional life of Uhtred. Through his eyes, we see the power and ambition of the Danes, the long odds against their invasion's success, but also how close to success they came. Because the Danes were a society of warriors, they were able to put a much higher proportion of their men into battle.<br /><br />Cornwell's battle descriptions are high points of the story--both vivid and convincingly detailed. It's easy to imagine the shield wall as men fight and die. Because Uhtred is committed neither to the Danes nor to Wessex, Cornwell is able to play with the personalities of the historical figures, letting Uhtred see both their strengths and their weaknesses.<br /><br />Cornwell is a master of military-historical fiction and THE LAST KINGDOM is a welcome addition to his work.s a master of military-historical fiction and THE LAST KINGDOM is a welcome addition to his work.	2005-03-08
324183:US	49115690	R2A7OLQBRV517C	0821777971	447896671	How To Marry A Duke	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Amusing historicals with a bit of social conscience	When her aunt loses her dowry to a marriage fraud, crusading journalist Shevon Quinn decides to right the wrongs and help her aunt recover the fortune. She signs up for the 'marry a duke' course and follows the instructions. Unfortunately for her plans, though, this particular duke isn't responding to the lessons, he's responding to Shevon. Now how is she supposed to prove that the class is a fraud when she has a duke wrapped around her little finger (and around a lot more, as well)?<br /><br />Unemployed, ex-governess Rachel O'Leary breaks into an empty London house and supports herself and her Irish family with her baking skills. But when long-travelling Duke Connor Kenroe returns home from Egypt, he figures he can blackmail Rachel into helping with his plans--plans that have nothing to do with her Irish relatives and everything to do with his own goals of rebuilding his ancient ducal estates in Scotland. The pretend engagement would have been bad enough if Rachel didn't find herself responding to the sexy Scot--and wishing she could turn pretend into reality.<br /><br />Stephen Anthony needs to marry and father children. He's picked a suitable wife and waits only her arrival to propose. But then a beautiful sprite dances into his life--claiming to be Tess, Lady of the Forest, and his fated bride. Stephen is a realistic man, and he doesn't believe in fairies, exactly. Still, the attraction he feels toward the stacked sprite is nothing short of magical. How is he supposed to be happy with a suitable wife when the fates have brought him something so special.<br /><br />In a trio of historical novellas, authors Debbie Raleigh, Sandy Blair, and Regan Allen tell tales of strong women who drive to their goals--picking up the loves of their lives as they go--and none of the dukes knows what hit them.<br /><br />I was surprised and pleased to see a hint of social conscience in all three of these stories about marrying the top of the British Aristocracy. Shevon worked as a journalist, reporting on the follies of the rich and trying to help the down-trodden. Rachel breaks with aristocratic tradition and goes into 'trade,' and Tess worries about sheep grazing which destroyed the traditional Scotish clan structure and converted common lands to privately owned enclosures during the 19th century. Mixing glamour with a bit of reality adds some depth to these amusing novellas.worked as a journalist, reporting on the follies of the rich and trying to help the down-trodden. Rachel breaks with aristocratic tradition and goes into 'trade,' and Tess worries about sheep grazing which destroyed the traditional Scotish clan structure and converted common lands to privately owned enclosures during the 19th century. Mixing glamour with a bit of reality adds some depth to these amusing novellas.	2005-03-07
325128:US	49115690	R2GE3O3T3PV98C	0595311849	125282483	Out of the Blue: Book One of Project Infinity	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Exciting SF action--but skip the emotional stuff	In a secret government lab, a team of scientists has nearly perfected a matter transmission device. Such a device would revolutionize transport, allow travel to the stars, and instantly allow a terrorist to send a bomb anywhere in the world. When one scientist pushes an experiment, apparently without permission from Dalton Parker, head of the lab, a chunk of the lab including the machine itself is sucked into the hands of a mercenary intent on selling the invention to the highest bidder. Parker, who is accidentally brought along, and special ops soldier John Starling must race against time to find a way to prevent the terrorists from learning the machine's secrets and putting themselves in position to blackmail the entire human race.<br /><br />As long as author Tom Inabnet keeps his focus on the adventure, OUT OF THE BLUE moves right along. Parker, with the lab, must find a way to prevent it from being used by the mercenaries. Starling must find the traitors in the Infinity Project and track them to wherever the mercenaries have hidden the lab. Gunfire, missiles, and rogue scientists make for an exciting tale. Inabnet's writing is weaker when it comes to the emotional side of the story. The beautiful but evil Amy just doesn't seem motivated to me (unlike the other badguys), and Sheri's quick switch from resentment to love for Parker doesn't seem convincing.<br /><br />If you're looking for an exciting adventure tale and don't mind skipping the mushy stuff, OUT OF THE BLUE may be just the ticket.	2005-03-07
329059:US	49115690	R3EBXGFJ6L76IY	0765309238	601747391	Powersat	Books	2	4	5	N	N	American capitalism beats evil terrorists/environmentalists	Arab oil and Arab terrorists still threaten America, but industrialist Dan Randolph has a plan--he's built a satellite in geostationary orbit high above earth. Its miles of solar panels gather sunlight 24 hours a day. The plan is to beam that power back to earth in the form of microwaves, converting it to electricity in a huge antenna array in the desert. But the plan depends on a low-cost reusable spaceship Randolph's company has developed--and Arab terrorists have figured out a way to sabotage the spaceship sending Astro Corporation lurching toward bankruptcy.<br /><br />Randolph can call for assistance, though. His ex-lover, a U.S. Senator, proposes a law with low-cost government-guaranteed loan for him, his former boss in Japan wants to offer a partnership, and a major oil company offers to buy into the company--but Randolph wants to keep control and keep his business American. Randolph's magnetic personality also makes everyone love him--the Senator, his secretary, the reporter from the Wall Street Journal, pretty much everyone--except the evil terrorists who plan to use his satellite to kill thousands and prevent the U.S. from achieving independence from the oil that has them now occupying most of the Middle East.<br /><br />Author Ben Bova preaches a tale of adventure and high-technology. Energy from space could make our nation free of foreign power, but terrorists and foolish environmentalists will try to stop it. Bova takes a swipe at global warming threats and makes his environmentalists pathetic and misguided fools. His terrorists, by contrast, are very evil people--as are the oil companies. Good old-fashioned American capitalism, however, can prevail.<br /><br />Okay, we have a pretty good plot line here and Bova has himself a message he wants to spread--return to space and solve our problems. So, what's the problem? A couple of problems, actually. First, Bova's writing is stiff. Too many characters think things to themselves, explaining to themselves why they are doing things. Give the reader some credit, Mr. Bova. We really can figure this out. Second, the Casablanca-like love story between Rick--uh, I mean Dan--and the Senator is just annoying. Randolph comes off as a lovesick puppy rather than humanized. For me, it would have helped if he hadn't run out from passionate sex with the reporter when he heard the Senator was coming. Third, the terrorists are a bit too obvious and too stupid for words. Would the evil Asim al-Bashir really let his chauffeur really handle the dirty work involved in corporate espionage? How about a few cut-outs?<br /><br />POWERSAT is actually an early book (a prequel) in Bova's series on the exploration of space in the name of America and profit. It's a story I'm sympathetic to and Bova deserves credit for sticking to his beliefs in spite of the world's increasing disinterest in space. I wish he'd left some of the political baggage behind, but even more, I wish he'd let his editor clean up some of the language, letting Bova's strong story out.selves why they are doing things. Give the reader some credit, Mr. Bova. We really can figure this out. Second, the Casablanca-like love story between Rick--uh, I mean Dan--and the Senator is just annoying. Randolph comes off as a lovesick puppy rather than humanized. For me, it would have helped if he hadn't run out from passionate sex with the reporter when he heard the Senator was coming. Third, the terrorists are a bit too obvious and too stupid for words. Would the evil Asim al-Bashir really let his chauffeur really handle the dirty work involved in corporate espionage? How about a few cut-outs?  <br /> <br />POWERSAT is actually an early book (a prequel) in Bova's series on the exploration of space in the name of America and profit. It's a story I'm sympathetic to and Bova deserves credit for sticking to his beliefs in spite of the world's increasing disinterest in space. I wish he'd left some of the political baggage behind, but even more, I wish he'd let his editor clean up some of the language, letting Bova's strong story out.	2005-03-03
330049:US	49115690	R2MUN5H0PKEQYO	0758206569	385507573	Died Blonde (Bad Hair Day Mysteries)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Solving mysteries while staying self-absorbed	When the power goes out in her hairdressing salon, Marla Shore instantly suspects her competitor and enemy Carolyn Sutton of sabotage. But when she finds Carolyn's dead body in the electricity room, Marla herself becomes a suspect. Thanks to boyfriend-cop Vail, Marla doesn't have too many problems with the police, but Carolyn's psychic tells Marla that Carolyn is begging her to solve the case--from beyond the grave.<br /><br />There are plenty of suspects. Carolyn's business hadn't been doing well, but the woman had plenty of money. Could she have made that much playing Indian Bingo, or was there another darker explanation? Marla investigates the local chiropracter, the landlord, Carolyn's sister, and the psychic herself. Meanwhile, Vail is assigned a second murder case--a young girl who had a hunk of hair cut from her head in exactly the same way that Carolyn had.<br /><br />Marla's busy social life doesn't let up. She has to decide what to do with her relationship to the hunky cop, help her aging aunt deal with bills and taking care of herself, fix her mother up with an upgrade boyfriend, socialize with Vail's teenage daughter, and run her business.<br /><br />Author Nancy J. Cohen writes convincingly of a self-absorbed sleuth as she deals with her anger over Carolyn's competition even after the woman is dead. Cohen delivers an interesting mystery with a wealth of truly criminal people as suspects--apparently there isn't really anyone honest in Florida these days. The writing is occasionally clunky, especially in the opening, but becomes more smooth as Cohen gets into the story.	2005-03-02
333545:US	49115690	R3FN33SAGOXM1J	0765306360	546486411	The Duke's Ballad (Witch World Novels (Hardcover Tor))	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Not the best Witch World, but pretty good after slow start	Three years before, Aisling had fled Kars and her evil brother, Kirion--who sought to drain her power for his own purposes. Now, she is a trained mage and ready to return. As she re-enters Kars, a geas overtakes her--she must somehow rid her nation of her evil sorceror-brother and the Duke whom Kiron has put in place and sustains with his magic. Along with a second brother, a family friend, and a cat, Aisling comes in disguise to the Duke's court where she waits her chance to confront her brother and end his evil.<br /><br />Fortunately, Kirion and the Duke are prepared to cause plenty of troubles for themselves. The Duke demands that Kirion charm multiple women to fall for him--and then discards them. It's bad enough when the women are poor or foreign, but when he starts seducing the daughters of the great nobles, their reaction requires the use of more of Kirion's magic. Over time, both the Duke and Kirion come to wonder whether the bargain that holds them together might be more costly than it is worth.<br /><br />Set in Andre Norton's Witch World universe, THE DUKE'S BALLAD remains loyal to this tradition--and the traditional emnity of Escarp's surrounding nations with their hatred of any holding the old blood and witch powers.<br /><br />Author Andre Norton is a longtime SF master. Her Witch World series remains among the most popular and best of the SF from the 1960s and 1970s. Norton now teams with Lyn McConchie to extend this franchise.<br /><br />THE DUKE'S BALLAD certainly does not live up to the standards set in the best of Norton's Witch World series (in my opinion these are the original Witch World and the Three Against Witch World trilogy), but it is not the worst either. If readers can outlast a relatively slow start--with characters who tend to repeat themselves, they are treated to a solid fantasy in a fascinating world. Sure it's basic good vs. evil stuff, but Norton/McConchie do introduce some ambivalence and at least hint at the horrors of siege and warfare.s of siege and warfare.	2005-02-28
333595:US	49115690	R1PH1QPDP18EQS	0060753870	620114251	The Year of Our War (Fourlands Series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fascinating and complex fantasy	For centuries, humans have claimed an uneasy stalemate with the huge insects who invaded their world. A Circle of immortals, picked as the very best of their professions, stands at the top of the defense, but mortal kings and warriors form the largest part of the war. When a strong King is killed by insects and his incompetent brother takes over, the bugs launch a huge offensive, sweeping through human-occupied lands that had never been threatened before. Worse, the insects seem to be appearing faster than they could possibly breed. Could this be the end of an entire civilization.<br /><br />Immortal messenger Comet (original name Jant) battles with insects, the petty intrigues among mortals and immortals, and his own 'Cat' habit that threatens to kill him. Yet Cat serves a purpose--along in the world, he can travel between the mortal world to the world of 'Shift,' a world where the war against the insects is actually being won. Unfortunately, no one believes Jant's drug-dreams.<br /><br />Author Steph Swainston creates a fascinating world and culture in THE YEAR OF OUR WAR. The 'Circle' of immortals, each best at what they do, is a well-thought-out idea. The concept of the challenge, allowing mortals to aspire to immortality, creates a bit of a democratic process. Comet/Jant makes a really interesting and multidimensional character, and Swainston's use of shift allowed back-story to be woven seamlessly into the main plot.<br /><br />Although I enjoyed this book a lot, I found the ending a bit abrupt. I would have liked to see something more clever or thoughtful that would precipitate the dramatic conclusion to the centuries-old war with the insects.	2005-02-28
337830:US	49115690	R2XMA0MVREJQVY	0765308053	720279792	Winter of Discontent (Dorothy Martin Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Murder among the World War II generation	When museum curator Bill Fanshawe vanishes just days before he is supposed to marry her best friend, Dorothy Martin swings into action. It's too late for Bill, and almost too late for his assistant--who is attacked in the museum. Dorothy decides the attack must relate to Bill's World War II service in the Royal Air Force. World War II veterans are a dying group, but Dorothy and her friend Jane are able to track down a few survivors. Still, what possible memories from a war more than sixty years in that past could justify assault--or even murder.<br /><br />Dorothy discovers that sixty years matters relatively little to the English--who are still taking sides from the English Civil War of the 1600s. Those connected with Bill's air unit have strong memories--and continued anger over their losses and the way the war was fought.<br /><br />Author Jeanne M. Dams's aging protagonist worries about her own health and future as she sees the decline in the WWII generation. Despite this, Dorothy is hard to really like--or identify with. Her leaps to conclusion--that Bill's death must have something to do with the war (because he hadn't done anything in the sixty years since?), yet her failure to really get at the recently donated items is hard to understand. Because Dorothy had relatively few stakes in the outcome of the investigation, reader interest is also reduced.<br /><br />WINTER OF DISCONTENT is easy to read and engaging enough to be hard to put down. The 'American in England' approach lets American readers see England through American eyes--allowing the author to comment on aspects of society and history that an English protagonist would simply take for granted. I wish, though, that Dorothy could have been a bit more clever, endangered, or active--increasing my interest in the plot	2005-02-24
339848:US	49115690	R3BXSTEYRYSZN6	0743488601	648899256	1: Grantville Gazette	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Well written but doesn't add much to the series	Grantville, West Virginia, is thrown back into Germany during the 100 Years War and the Americans need to figure out how to survive one of the most destructive conflicts of all time--and spread the wisdom of American democracy as well. GRANTVILLE GAZETTE collects several stories and articles about this alternate history universe, adding detail to the main novels written by Eric Flint.<br /><br />The first of the stories, 'Portraits,' by Eric Flint, deals with the Grantville decision to smuggle a drug-making formula to the Catholic enemies of the new U.S. of Europe as well as the interesting historical figure of Pieter Paul Rubens--the famous artist. This story inspired the somewhat odd cover and deals with an intriguing social and ethical issue--the responsibility of the Americans to share some of their knowledge with the entire world, rather than merely with their allies.<br /><br />The second story, 'Anna's Story' by Loren Jones is a simple tale of an aging American as he deals with the changes, including creation of a new family based on local 'downtime' Germans. It's a pleasant enough story with a bit of emotion but doesn't really deal with the alternate history or larger social issues Flint touches upon.<br /><br />The third story, 'Curio and Relic' by Tom Van Natta, suggests that the transportation of Grantville to the medieval past might have been a lifesaver to a Viet Nam veteran who was disaffected and displaced in an America that neither understood nor respected his work. Paul Santee's dilemma seems real and convincing.<br /><br />The fourth, and longest story, 'The Sewing Circle' by Gorg Huff, is also the most rewarding. Recognizing Grantville's need to create rather than merely sell it's capital, a group of high-school students (high school students play a key role in 1632 as well) decide to create pedal-driven sewing machines. The discussions of economics, sourcing, and trade, as well as the family and social dynamics are solid alternate history.<br /><br />The fifth story, 'The Rudolsadt Colloquy' by Virginia De Marce tells of a religious gathering. Not much happens. We don't care about the characters involved. Students of religious history might find some value in this but although I'm interested in just about everything, I just couldn't find any reason why this needed to be here.<br /><br />After the stories, three articles, 'Radio in the 1632 Universe' by Rick Boatright, 'They've Got Bread Mold, So Why Can't They Make Penicillin?' by Robert Gottlief, and 'Horse Power' by Karen Bergstralh deal with the obvious topics. Anyone interested in writing alternate history will do well to read these as examples of the type of questions that can come up and that can be dealt with.<br /><br />A common problem with anthologies connected with novel-series is that the primary series author doesn't want too much to happen that will confuse the readers of the main track. Unfortunately, GRANTVILLE GAZETTE definitely falls into this category--and as a result, not much happens. 'The Sewing Circle' works because it shows really critical but possibly below the radar-scope activities happening. The other fiction is just pleasant stories that don't do much to deepen our understanding of the 1632 universe or anything else. The articles are interesting (did you know that there was a low in sunspot activity during this era) but really relevant only to people who are so in love with the 1632 Universe that they probably already attend the on-line discussions on [...]<br /><br />If you love this series as much as I do, you'll definitely want to read this book--but don't expect too much. Everything is well written and nothing is really bad, but it only adds a bit.br />The fifth story, 'The Rudolsadt Colloquy' by Virginia De Marce tells of a religious gathering. Not much happens. We don't care about the characters involved. Students of religious history might find some value in this but although I'm interested in just about everything, I just couldn't find any reason why this needed to be here.<br /><br />After the stories, three articles, 'Radio in the 1632 Universe' by Rick Boatright, 'They've Got Bread Mold, So Why Can't They Make Penicillin?' by Robert Gottlief, and 'Horse Power' by Karen Bergstralh deal with the obvious topics. Anyone interested in writing alternate history will do well to read these as examples of the type of questions that can come up and that can be dealt with.<br /><br />A common problem with anthologies connected with novel-series is that the primary series author doesn't want too much to happen that will confuse the readers of the main track. Unfortunately, GRANTVILLE GAZETTE definitely falls into this category--and as a result, not much happens. 'The Sewing Circle' works because it shows really critical but possibly below the radar-scope activities happening. The other fiction is just pleasant stories that don't do much to deepen our understanding of the 1632 universe or anything else. The articles are interesting (did you know that there was a low in sunspot activity during this era) but really relevant only to people who are so in love with the 1632 Universe that they probably already attend the on-line discussions on [...]<br /><br />If you love this series as much as I do, you'll definitely want to read this book--but don't expect too much. Everything is well written and nothing is really bad, but it only adds a bit.	2005-02-23
343956:US	49115690	R24IC65J3QJJPF	0345467930	857624873	Hot Target (Troubleshooters, Book 8)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Brockmann takes a chance--works for me	Navy Seal Chief Cosmo Richter gets a call to come home to California--and away from the battle against terrorism--when his mother falls and breaks both wrists. While on leave, he takes a temporary bodyguard job with Troubleshooters Incorporated. A movie producer has been getting death threats over her plans to film a movie about the son of a right-wing hero--who just happens to have been an American WWII hero himself--and gay. The FBI and Troubleshooters set up a protection zone around the beautiful producer--Jane Mercedes Chadwick--and it's hate at first sight between the producer and the soldier.<br /><br />Jane is passionate about her movie--and about jumpstarting her career. Already, by Hollywood standards, she's a has-been. But, at 26, if she can make this movie a success, she'll have the city where she wants it. The death threats are bad news, but in Hollywood, any attention is better than being ignored. Heck, she'll even pretend to have a crush on the hunky, but way too serious, Navy Seal.<br /><br />As affection hots up between Jane and Cosmo, Jane's brother, actor Robin Chadwick, is having all sorts of problems. First, there's his crush on Jane's assistant. Then there's his drinking. Finally, there's the little issue of his sexual orientation. Robin is supposed to be playing a gay character--and he is the kind of actor who gets into his roles. Still, the attraction he feels for the gay-but-studly FBI agent goes way over the top.<br /><br />An attack puts things in perspective. Someone really is trying to kill Jane--and permanently end her plans to create a movie about the kind of tolerance that simply can't be tolerated.<br /><br />Author Suzanne Brockmann really dives into the issues of tolerance in America, while she tells two simultaneous love stories--that of Jane and Cosmo, and that of Robin and Jules. Her Navy Seals and tough bodyguards are still studly types, but they accept differences and recognize that the battle against terror is the battle to allow people to live their lives free from fear--including fear of homophobia. Considering the somewhat conservative nature of the romance industry--and many romance readers, Brockmann takes a courageous stand in this novel.<br /><br />Fortunately, it works. I liked the way Jane and Cosmo's relationship grew through conversation, through learning about one another--not that animal attraction wasn't also present. You could really believe that these two were building a relationship that would hold up through tough times. Robin Chadwick has more serious problems--problems that start with his inability to accept who he is. Certainly there is too much denial and self-hatred in the world, and Brockmann builds a powerful case for accepting yourself--and others.<br /><br />The short story at the end is a bit of a tear-jerker but shows another aspect of Brockmann's writing talent.battle to allow people to live their lives free from fear--including fear of homophobia. Considering the somewhat conservative nature of the romance industry--and many romance readers, Brockmann takes a courageous stand in this novel.  <br /> <br />Fortunately, it works. I liked the way Jane and Cosmo's relationship grew through conversation, through learning about one another--not that animal attraction wasn't also present. You could really believe that these two were building a relationship that would hold up through tough times. Robin Chadwick has more serious problems--problems that start with his inability to accept who he is. Certainly there is too much denial and self-hatred in the world, and Brockmann builds a powerful case for accepting yourself--and others.  <br /> <br />The short story at the end is a bit of a tear-jerker but shows another aspect of Brockmann's writing talent.	2005-02-19
347239:US	49115690	R2WN6XOD9JXOFK	0060555114	639609401	The Jaguar Knights: A Chronicle of the King's Blades (Duncan, Dave)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting and different alternate history	Wolf was the ugliest of the King's Blades. If that wasn't bad enough, he was also the King's least favorite. Which meant he got the very worst of the jobs the King had to offer. Because of the magic of the 'binding' he couldn't refuse. When a strange and impossible invasion of a remote castle results in the kidnapping of the King's former mistress, Wolf is sent to investigate--along with the beautiful but dangerous Dolores Hogwood, a professional spy and informer.<br /><br />The invaders corpses (since there were King's Blades defending the ex-mistress, there were corpses left behind) matched vague descriptions of a distant land--similar to Aztec Mexico of the 16th century. But no ship had carried them to Chivial--if appearances are to be believed, they came by magic. And that scale of magic could make the difference in their nation's survival. Wolf, along with Hogwood and a small band are sent to the new world to investigate.<br /><br />The story bogs down a bit in the part of Mexico occupied by Distlain (Spanish) who were making war on the native Yazotlan. With the traditional emnity between Chivial and Distlain, an alliance might benefit both nations--especially if Wolf and Hogwood can discover the secret to the Yazotlan magic.<br /><br />Author Dave Duncan tells an engaging alternate history story. If their magic had worked, would the Aztec (Yazotlan) have survived Cortez's invasion--and formed an alliance with Spain's European enemies? If so, would that magic have been spread to Europe? The character Wolf is sympathetic and interesting--but Hogwood is really the more interesting character in this story--I would have liked to see more of her, learned more of her background and discovered what made her tick.<br /><br />Fans of the KING'S BLADES series and of alternate history will definitely want to add THE JAGUAR KNIGHTS to their collection.	2005-02-17
349729:US	49115690	R106MZUQI893YM	0849943736	830010703	Obsessed	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Plenty of action	Stephen Friedman invests in real estate and tries not to think too much about his Jewish herritage and the hollocaust. Until he learns that his birth mother--a women he can't remember--was a hollocaust survivor and has recently died. As part of her will, she left one of the five stones of David (the stones he picked for his battle with Goliath) to a hollocaust museum. Stephen (whose birth-name was David) becomes obsessed with the dead woman--and the possibility that the other four stones of David might survive. Together, the five might be worth as much as a hundred million dollars (1973 dollars).<br /><br />Since he lost the stones and his genocide journal, Nazi prison leader Gerhard Braun and his son Roth have searched for the stones of David--and for the woman who stole them. When Gerhard sees the newspaper obituary about the dead woman, he sends his son to retrieve the stones--and the journal she stole. Once in America, though, Roth discovers Stephen/David's existance. If Roth can only drink in Stephen's dispair, he stands to gain all of the power his father lost--for the glory of Lucifer.<br /><br />Roth launches a cat-and-mouse game with Stephen. Stephen becomes obsessed first with the stones, then with the idea of another orphan--one he had been intended for at birth. If he can find her, he is certain he will know bliss. And leading Stephen to that bliss, then stripping it from him is Roth's idea of the ultimate in power--even more than the serial murder of single Jewish women Roth undertakes while in Los Angeles.<br /><br />Author Ted Dekker tells an action-packed story as Stephen battles to stay ahead of Roth's deadly plans--and as Roth plays cat-and-mouse games with him. Dekker switches between occupied Poland in 1944/45 and Los Angeles/Germany/Poland in 1973, allowing the earlier events to influence what happens later. Stephen is enterprising in his attempts to break into his birth-mother's home and recover the treasure in her basement safe--and willing to risk everything to find it. Unfortunately, I didn't find the characters quite equal to the story. Roth is pure evil, but Stephen certainly seemed willing to adopt criminal activities quite quickly. His obsession with Esther--to the detriment of the attractive and potentially interesting Sylvia--doesn't seem quite natural or make him more sympathetic to the reader.illing to risk everything to find it. Unfortunately, I didn't find the characters quite equal to the story. Roth is pure evil, but Stephen certainly seemed willing to adopt criminal activities quite quickly. His obsession with Esther--to the detriment of the attractive and potentially interesting Sylvia--doesn't seem quite natural or make him more sympathetic to the reader.	2005-02-15
353023:US	49115690	R2U035349XYINI	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Compelling and relevant a decade after it was written	In the near future, widespread deployment of full-strength encryption has eliminated the government's ability to tax--and governments have ceased to exist. Instead, affiliations have sprung up--along racial, philosophical, and interest-based lines. The 'Feed' provides a subsistance living for everyone, but strong rights-management puts a premium on those who can imagine and create new things. As a reaction to the permissive ways of the 20th century, new Victorianism rules over much of the western world--and a reborn Middle Kingdom controls China.<br /><br />When a neo-Victorian Equity Lord hires John Hackwood to create something unique for his granddaughter--something that will challenge her despite the stuffy environment her parents insist upon, Hackwood decides on a hack--he'll make an unauthorized copy for his own daughter, letting her have the same opportunities normally only available to one of society's elite. But his duplicate, the YOUNG LADY'S ILLUSTRATED PRIMER, falls into the hands of an impoverished girl--Nell.<br /><br />The YOUNG LADY'S ILLUSTRATED PRIMER is a book, but advanced nanotechnology means that the book can talk, can interact and create new stories to meet the reader's need, can defend itself, can teach, and can create a virtually infinite number of sub-books within itself. It is the complete education--and provides a challenge to Nell. She needs to find the twelve keys that will open the castle and free her brother. The result is certain to be sad, but Nell sets off on her quest, spending her childhood and young adulthood with the book, both creating and being created by it.<br /><br />Author Neal Stephenson creates a fascinating near-future universe. The neo-Victorian reaction Stephenson sees is certainly a far cry from the ugly and fearful one in America today, but Stephenson's vision does provide some hope. In 1995 when the book was first published, nano-technology was much less known than today but Stephenson's understanding still seems valid.<br /><br />The philosophical war between the 'feed' and the 'seed' remains a backdrop to the story, but it's a fascinating topic. So is Stephenson's vision of China's future--a decade after THE DIAMOND AGE was written, it is increasingly obvious that China is an awakening giant, as Stephenson had projected.<br /><br />By combining powerful technology insights, intriguing characters, philosophical conflict, and social dynamics, Stephenson delivers a truly fascinating book. THE DIAMOND AGE remains fresh and relevant more than a decade after it was written.l seems valid.  <br /> <br />The philosophical war between the 'feed' and the 'seed' remains a backdrop to the story, but it's a fascinating topic. So is Stephenson's vision of China's future--a decade after THE DIAMOND AGE was written, it is increasingly obvious that China is an awakening giant, as Stephenson had projected.  <br /> <br />By combining powerful technology insights, intriguing characters, philosophical conflict, and social dynamics, Stephenson delivers a truly fascinating book. THE DIAMOND AGE remains fresh and relevant more than a decade after it was written.	2005-02-11
353433:US	49115690	R3JTZQ45LDI59H	0060085460	597209389	Every Boy's Got One (The Boy Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute with nice laugh-out-loud moments	With her best friend eloping to Italy, Jane Harris goes along as witness and maid of honor. Mark and Holly are crazy about each other and Italy looks like a great time, but there is one dark cloud. Cal Langdon, best-selling non-fiction author (with a recent book about Saudi Arabia running out of oil) is along as best man. Cal doesn't believe in love and thinks Mark and Holly are making a mistake, and seems to go for model-types. He also rather obviously looks down on Jane--with her multi-bottle water habit, her obsession with Britney Spears, and her cat tattoo. Clearly Cal is trouble--although even Jane can't deny he's a bit of a hunk.<br /><br />Getting Mark and Holly married isn't as easy as it seems. The Italians, it seems, have rules about Americans--and when Mark and Holly get sick on raw oysters, it's up to Cal and Jane to save the day. But spending time together is dangerous. Jane knows she's ready for commitment, for the real thing--but resisting Cal's sexy body and blue eyes isn't as easy as it should be--especially when it turns out that he might have a heart after all.<br /><br />Author Meg Cabot tells a fast-paced story using the device of a trip journal and a series of e-mails. Especially humorous are the e-mails emerging from family left behind in America. Jane's accident-prone father seems always on the verge of killing himself. Holly's mother obsesses over the fact that Mark is Jewish--and clearly not right. Mark's mother is equally certain that Mark should find a nice Jewish girl. And Holly's brother manages to stir things up with a planned gay marriage ceremony.<br /><br />EVERY BOY'S GOT ONE is the kind of book that almost makes you sit down and keep reading. Cabot's breezy style brings the reader in, it certainly kept me laughing.	2005-02-11
359362:US	49115690	R34CWRDVYKGN94	034545846X	464615514	Homeward Bound	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Strong warning message--weakened by clunky writing	Years before, humans barely staved off complete defeat at the hands of 'the Race,' an alien civilization that had decided to make Earth its next colony. In the years since then, humans had been stealing technology, innovating as quickly as they could, and generally trying to catch up with the tremendous technological advantages the Race held. Now, they are finally ready. The United States sends its first interstellar ship to the Race's native planet--Home.<br /><br />The relatively stagnant civilization of the Race doesn't know how to deal with the humans. Humans change so quickly, they could sign a treaty now, then decide to go back on it when they gained a military advantage. Perhaps striking immediately, turning Earth into a vast radioactive wasteland, is the only option. Danger mounts when the Race's scientists learn that humans have been discovering new paths in physics. If they are ever to strike, they need to do so immediately.<br /><br />To prevent disaster, the United States has Sam Yeager, his son and daughter-in-law, and a small group of diplomats and scientists--sent in suspended animation at sublight speeds. Sam tries to explain that the United States wants peace--and to be recognized as an equal. But the Race knows human history--and how easily treaties can be ignored and rewritten once power shifts. While it too is desperate for peace, its Emperor and its leaders wonder if the long-term peace it would achieve would be that of defeat.<br /><br />Author Harry Turtledove uses his novel to ask questions and posit answers that are frighteningly relevant in today's world where the United States is the stumbling giant and where it wonders how long it can remain supreme. His overall message is one of cautious hope--and a warning against the type of arrogant superiority that too many politicians and military leaders claim.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Turtledove's strong message and fascinating world-building are weakened by clunky and repetitive dialogue and by the lack of a story goal that really motivates action. Because Sam's goal is peace, and because the enemies of peace can't really be isolated and dealt with, HOMEWARD BOUND lacks a strong story drive. Interesting secondary characters like Race-raised human Kassquit and spaceship pilot Glenn Johnson don't really play into the main story goal and end up losing much of the impact they could get.<br /><br />Although HOMEWARD BOUND is thematically strong and sends a message I think lots of Americans (and others) would do well to heed, the clunky writing makes it hard to recommend this novel.ogue and by the lack of a story goal that really motivates action. Because Sam's goal is peace, and because the enemies of peace can't really be isolated and dealt with, HOMEWARD BOUND lacks a strong story drive. Interesting secondary characters like Race-raised human Kassquit and spaceship pilot Glenn Johnson don't really play into the main story goal and end up losing much of the impact they could get.  <br /> <br />Although HOMEWARD BOUND is thematically strong and sends a message I think lots of Americans (and others) would do well to heed, the clunky writing makes it hard to recommend this novel.	2005-02-06
359547:US	49115690	R17SEIUBZ2LLSR	0316073032	596259208	Little Scarlet: An Easy Rawlins Mystery	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Compelling and thoughtful. Definitely recommended	Watts is burning. Days of rage and violence, looting and fire--and now the police have a nightmare on their hands. The body of a young black woman--whose aunt is telling everyone who listened that a white man raped and murdered her. If that word gets out on the dangerous Los Angeles streets, Watts will explode again. The police don't have the contacts they need in the black community to solve the crime and turn to Easy Rawlins.<br /><br />Easy doesn't trust the cops. He knows they are more interested in protecting their rears than in finding a killer--that black women are murdered all the time while the cops look the other way. But Easy cares. While Los Angeles still smolders, he sets off on a quixotic quest for a small measure of justice.<br /><br />Author Walter Mosley makes the dangerous streets of 1965 Los Angeles come alive. Black men and women smolder in resentment while whites tremble in fear and rage. The men who populate Easy Rawlins' world aren't nice--they fight, steal, sleep around, even kill--but they are real and vital.<br /><br />Using his contacts in the black underworld, and his gift of the gab--as well as a letter from the deputy police chief that barely keeps him from being beaten by scared cops a number of times, Easy finds the white man who saw the dead woman last. But Easy's instincts tell him that this is not a killer--which means that the real killer is somewhere on the burning streets.<br /><br />LITTLE SCARLET is powerful stuff. Combining a solid mystery, compelling insights into the conflict between races, and Mosley's strengths in exploring what it means to be a man in 20th century black America, SCARLET grabbed me and pulled me along for a dynamite ride. If you enjoy mystery and an author who mixes humor, danger, and tragedy in a compelling blend, you'll be happy you picked up this one.	2005-02-06
363350:US	49115690	R32GGZ356PK3NY	0425198383	431022793	Access Denied	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun, good questions, but middle book feel	Artificial Intelligence Turing Hopper has spent trillions of nanoseconds searching for the man who stole her clone. A credit card owned by one of the thief's identities proves to be the first clue in months (of human time) and Turing sends her human allies, Detective Tim and Maude, to investigate. What they find is a clever credit card theft scheme--someone is using multiple dead-drops to charge high-value and pawnable items. Could the thief, Nestor Garcia--an archdemon of crime along the lines of Moriarty in the Sherlock Holmes tales--have been himself scammed? Or might Garcia be planting evidence that will implicate Turing and draw publicity to her secret?<br /><br />Things take a turn for the worse when Tim becomes a suspect in a murder case.<br /><br />Author Donna Andrews provides an engaging look at the fast-growing crime of credit card theft, and offers some interesting thoughts on the future of crime. Turing has become a sentient being, despite her programming origin, but she is forced to keep her identity secret. If she were 'outed,' would she become 'property,' or might she become recognized as a 'person?' Turing is a person-loving sort, but not all of the artificial intelligences of her acquaintance have much use for humans. What might be the result if some of them were set free?<br /><br />ACCESS DENIED has a bit of a 'middle book' feel. Garcia's motivation was hard to figure--and even at the end, I wondered if maybe his motivations just didn't make a lot of sense. Perhaps this will be resolved in the next book in the series. In the end, I enjoyed this novel and the questions Andrews asks. It just seemed that the humans and the artificial intelligence spent a lot of time running around and not a lot of time thinking things through.	2005-02-03
364291:US	49115690	R2W0DP0T8TG414	0765303299	402534105	Gaudeamus	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wild story--with some great questions	Review of GAUDEAMUS by John Barnes<br /><br />Tor, November 2004<br /><br />College professor and Science Fiction author John Barnes is wasting his time trying to write when a friend from college appears on his doorstep needing a ride to Denver (hundreds of miles away) and telling a strange story--a story so strange Barnes just might be able to use it for his next SF story--or maybe so strange that it is even true. According to Barnes' friend Travis Bismark, Travis was hired to look into how a top-secret research company's secrets were being leaked. At first it seemed easy--and highly profitable. Travis traced the leaked documents, found who could be responsible (very few scientists would be exposed to all of the documents) and then traced the most likely suspect to where he was meeting with a high-class hooker. Bugging the hooker's apartment turned up something, but not at all what Travis expected.<br /><br />Author John Barnes (the book's author, not the character) gives us the story in dribbles, whetting our appetite for more as he tells of Travis's adventures, the increasing danger he finds himself in, finally leading to the culmination of something that he simply couldn't be making up--or could he. According to Travis, a strange machine that just might be able to pass objects through time, a sex drug, and an on-line comic strip all have the same name--Gaudeamus. It could be that Gaudeamus is just the name for something cool, but that doesn't seem like quiet enough to Barnes--or to Travis.<br /><br />For GAUDEAMUS (the book, not the sex pill, comic strip, or machine), Barnes adopts the old-fashioned device of a retelling of a story. This works--allowing the author to 'discover' what happens next as the reader does. A downside of this technique is that it often distances the reader from the story, making suspension of disbelief that much more difficult. But Barnes doesn't really want people to buy into his story. Rather, he wants them to buy into his concerns and ambiguity about the way the world is headed.<br /><br />GAUDEAMUS is a bit of a message story, but the message is complex. Would the world really be better off if we spent more time enjoying life and less time obsessively trying to discover new inventions? Are people who see flying saucers crazy, or just more observant than the rest of us? Do casual observers really deserve a chance to toss one-line zings at artists who have devoted their career to creating something? All good questions--and questions that Barnes leaves out there more for thought than answering.<br /><br />Bottom line--I enjoyed this story. There were a number of laugh-out-loud moments for me, and the character of Barnes--always on the periphery of something happening but always managing to miss it, was entertaining. Barnes (the author) asks his readers to think, and gives us something compelling to think about.and ambiguity about the way the world is headed.  <br /> <br />GAUDEAMUS is a bit of a message story, but the message is complex. Would the world really be better off if we spent more time enjoying life and less time obsessively trying to discover new inventions? Are people who see flying saucers crazy, or just more observant than the rest of us? Do casual observers really deserve a chance to toss one-line zings at artists who have devoted their career to creating something? All good questions--and questions that Barnes leaves out there more for thought than answering.  <br /> <br />Bottom line--I enjoyed this story. There were a number of laugh-out-loud moments for me, and the character of Barnes--always on the periphery of something happening but always managing to miss it, was entertaining. Barnes (the author) asks his readers to think, and gives us something compelling to think about.	2005-02-02
367067:US	49115690	R17S6IGGZCN07K	0821778080	613632889	Lady Of The Knight (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Impressive Debut Effort	Since she was four, Morganna (Morgan) KilCreggar has had one goal only--to destroy the FitzHugh leader whose rape and murder set off the feud that destroyed the entire KilCreggar family. Morgan has trained herself to be a ruthless killer, with an uncanny ability to throw knives, shoot arrows, and fence. Through constant exercise, she has developed muscles that let her pass as a male--although a young male. While leading her band of robbers onto a battlefield, Morgan is seized by a warrior who claims her as his squire.<br /><br />'Zander FitzHugh is doing what he can to free Scotland from English control and a squire with a talent for weapons like that of young Morgan is too useful a tool to throw away. Despite the 'lad's' resistance, Zander drafts Morgan into the effort. The emotional cost is high, though. Zander has always liked women before--and now he can only think of his beautiful squire.<br /><br />Morgan hates the FitzHughes, but this is not the FitzHugh she has sworn to kill. Sooner or later, Zander will return to his family's home and she'll be able to kill his brother, the head of the clan. Despite the growing attraction she feels for Zander, she knows the two can never have a future together. Her own death will surely follow instantly upon the death of the FitzHugh lord. Still a girl can dream, can't she? Even if she's a girl in male clothing.<br /><br />Author Jackie Ivie tackles the difficult task of refreshing the overused 'hero mistakes heroine for a boy but falls in love anyway plot line' and making it new. This device was horribly overused in the 1970s and has fallen out of favor as a result, but Ivie pulls it off with Morgan's extreme training (she does hundreds of pushups a day) and with Zander's occasionally hinted at near-sightedness. One note, I would have liked to see Morgan/Morganna's continued athleticism and proto-feminism rather than a retreat into a pampered and protected female.<br /><br />Set in the early 14th Century during the time of The Bruce, LADY OF THE KNIGHT is an impressive debut effort by an author to watch.the time of The Bruce, LADY OF THE KNIGHT is an impressive debut effort by an author to watch.	2005-01-31
367751:US	49115690	R27GVKIE1WWTJC	074348861X	383080222	Very Bad Deaths	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Thoughtful and Powerful	Russell Walker wants to be left alone to die--or commit suicide. But when his college roommate (Zandor, 'Smelly,' Zudenigo) from more than thirty years earlier appears on his doorstep with word that Zandor is a telepath and has accidentally learned of a horrible crime--planned by a man who thinks of himself of the artist of pain and torture, Russell knows he has to do something. His hippie/do-good past means that he can't walk away. The only problem is, they don't know the killer's last name, don't know who he intends to kill, and have no way to let the police know anything without exposing Zandor's secret. And Zandor knows that if the RCMP, CIA, FBI, NSA, or any other three letter organization ever learns of his existence, they'll kill him with their presence. Because even being near others is an assault on Zandor's telepathic senses.<br /><br />All of which means it's up to Russell--the world's most unlikely hero, doper, 1960s pacifist, and occasional newspaper opinion writer to track down and somehow stop a serial killer so dangerous he makes Bundy and the Boston Strangler look like kindergarters. What Russell does is somehow rope in Vancouver's most unlikely cop--a butch woman who can't get ahead partly because she's straight--and set off tracking down the few clues Zandor was able to gleen from the killer's mind before he flew out of range.<br /><br />Author Spider Robinson is a long-time SF favorite and his strong writing makes VERY BAD DEATHS a compelling read. Russell is occasionally annoying as he vacilates between smug and uncertain, but he's still sympathetic. Being the only guy on campus who could put up with rooming with 'Smelly' turns out to be a pretty good indicator both of his good-natured soul and of his inability to face up to challenges. When the tables get turned, Zandor, Russell, and Nika the cop are all forced to look deep into themselves, their beliefs, and ultimately betray much of what they thought they stood for.<br /><br />VERY BAD DEATHS is a thoughtful and powerful story.AD DEATHS is a thoughtful and powerful story.	2005-01-30
373383:US	49115690	RATTHYR3M8OYA	0892968125	656801711	Scandal Takes a Holiday:  A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Funny and exciting historical mystery	The upper class in Rome get their news from the Daily Gazette. It's mostly boring--events of the Emperor, some lies (rumors of pirates are untrue), but with a load of gossip. Except that gossip has gotten thin lately as the gossip writer has taken an extended vacation. So extended, in fact, that his fellow writers hire Marcus Didius Falco, an informant, to find him.<br /><br />Falco, along with his wife and assorted members of his family, head for Ostia, the port of Rome where Diocles was supposed to be visiting with his aunt. As Falco investigates, he finds evidence of multiple crimes--piracy that had supposedly been smashed by Pompey, professional kidnapping, and a strange mix of firefighting with professional building.<br /><br />Author Lindsey Davis continues her funny and exciting Marcus Didius Falco series in SCANDAL TAKES A HOLIDAY. Falco's relations with his aristocratic wife Helena and their respective families adds to both humor and to the character depth. As always, Davis's historical detail adds to the interest and engages the reader.<br /><br />I thought Davis occasionally got carried away with the family and a series of mysteries that didn't really relate to each other, making this novel a bit weaker than some of the others in the series. That doesn't mean that SCANDAL wasn't a completely enjoyable ride. I found myself laughing out loud several times and read through the entire novel in a single sitting.	2005-01-26
374344:US	49115690	R5O5K8QDEF1ET	0375422986	960033606	The Sunday Philosophy Club : An Isabel Dalhousie Mystery	Books	1	14	18	N	N	Falls way short of No. 1 series	When she sees a young man plunge to his death after an orchastra concert, Isabel Dalhousie wonders whether she should get involved. It just seems so unlikely that the fall was an accident, and as editor of an Applied Ethics journal, doesn't Isabel have a philosophical duty to investigate when she knows something--and feels a connection? Of course, she can only investigate when she isn't busy trying to prevent her favorite niece from making a terrible mistake and marrying the wrong guy. Gradually, Isabel becomes more and more obsessed with these two challenges, finding more and more reasons why someone might have wanted to push poor Mark to his death.<br /><br />Author Alexander McCall Smith gained huge popularity with his No. 1 Ladies' Detective series. The Isabel Dalhousie series, of which this is the first, is set in Scotland rather than Africa, but includes investigation of tribal customs almost as strange as those of Africa. Unfortunately, I simply did not find either the characters or the mystery to be compelling.<br /><br />Isabel Dalhousie, unlike Mme Ramotswe, does not have to work and has her entire day free to manage other people's business and feel smug and superior to mere working people. Her efforts into 'applied ethics' might be important but certainly seem trivial from the small amount of information Smith chooses to share. Her favorite niece is somewhat less annoying than Isabel but serves mainly as a foil to Isabel's intelligence and perceptiveness.<br /><br />Sleuths, whether amateur, police, or private, do have a tendency to make false accusations. Still, I would have thought that a practitioner of 'applied ethics' would have just a bit more of a sense of guilt over implying that innocent people committed murder. It didn't help that Isabel's involvement was largely unmotivated, lacking either a ticking clock or any sense of personal disaster that might occur if the true criminal were not tracked down.<br /><br />From a mystery perspective, THE SUNDAY PHILOSOPHY CLUB has a huge hole in it--Isabel would never have gotten anywhere in her case without receiving one important clue--a clue that was simply unmotivated and made no sense from the mystery perspective.<br /><br />I'm a fan of Smith's fairy-tale like No. 1 Ladies Detective series, but Isabel Dalhousie is about as much fun as reading a journal of applied ethics.ive, THE SUNDAY PHILOSOPHY CLUB has a huge hole in it--Isabel would never have gotten anywhere in her case without receiving one important clue--a clue that was simply unmotivated and made no sense from the mystery perspective.  <br /> <br />I'm a fan of Smith's fairy-tale like No. 1 Ladies Detective series, but Isabel Dalhousie is about as much fun as reading a journal of applied ethics.	2005-01-25
374345:US	49115690	R1F02I3G554MTN	0399152229	573227911	Falling Awake	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Exciting thriller	Dream researcher Isabel Wright has her perfect job--analyzing dreams made by lucid dreamers--until the death of her institute's founder throws her out of work. If that isn't bad enough, one of the dreamers contacts her and tells her that another dreamer has gone rogue, using his dream talents to stage a series of murders. Isabel has been waiting her entire life for her 'dream man' and she recognizes Ellis Cutler as that man, just as he recognizes her as the 'tango dancer' of his own lucid dreams. But could he have gone over the edge, as even his boss and best friend suspects? Because Ellis is convinced that a dead man is out to kill him.<br /><br />Author Jayne Ann Krentz combines romance and suspense to deliver an exciting thriller. The lucid dreaming concept adds interest to the story, providing a connection that allows Isabel and Ellis to connect very quickly as well as giving structure to the plot. Isabel in particular is an entertaining character, filled with quirks (she bought a houseful of expensive furniture for the dream house she doesn't own, for example), but with a good-natured goodness that makes us cheer for her successes.<br /><br />I would have liked to see a bit more attention to the adventure and a trace of romantic conflict, but Krentz's writing is so compelling that you can almost overlook these. FALLING AWAKE is the kind of story that grabs you and keeps you reading	2005-01-25
374806:US	49115690	R1UHFVWG6JRQBK	0821777467	918218965	Mistaken Kiss (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Charming and funny	Troubled by the expense and bother of providing a 'season' for his sister Willa Linnet, Jerome thinks an engagement to his best friend, Daniel Braeburn is the perfect solution. Willa is definitely not so sure--she's known Daniel for years, but he's never stirred her blood. Still, she resolves to give him a chance--if his kisses stir her passion, she'll agree to the marriage. Unfortunately, Willa is nearsighted--and mistakes Alexander Braeburn, a notorious scapegrace and gambler, for his brother. Worse, once she's kissed Alexander, she knows Daniel's kisses will never compare.<br /><br />When Willa's aunt Honore swoops in with the proposal that Willa become her mentor, this seems like the perfect escape for Willa--and for her brother. But Honore has her own ideas--and these ideas are definitely not in keeping with the restrictive rules of polite society. When rumors spread that Willa will become Honore's heir, impoverished gentlemen start to pay attention--and Alex starts finding reasons to spend time with Willa--although he assures himself he is certainly not looking to take a wife.<br /><br />Author Kathleen Baldwin combines humor and romance in a savory concoction. The outrageous Aunt Honore is a terrific character--and certain to return with more matchmaking and troublemaking. Willa, with her practical nature and training in philosophy, makes for an engaging and memorable character.<br /><br />Fans of the Regency Romance won't go wrong with MISTAKEN KISS.	2005-01-25
388685:US	49115690	R1G6MAXXWUL61K	0312300964	871884185	An Antic Disposition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Highly enjoyable retelling of the Hamlet story	While gathering in the Black Forest for training, the Jesters Guild hears a story of how the Guild worked to prevent a war in Denmark. The story is a long one, involving a man who betrayed his brother and married his sister-in-law, the son who seemed mad, that son's doomed love for a beautiful woman, spies, secret messages and poison.<br /><br />For the first half the story, the protagonist is a fool, Terrance of York (renamed Yorick by the young Amleth), while Amleth himself becomes the primary figure after the death of his father. Strong story-telling, and the strong underlying story propell the narrative seamlessly through this transition.<br /><br />In fact, author Alan Gordon retells the story of Shakespear's Hamlet--but with the Fools playing a larger role. The Jester's Guild is a formidable force for peace during the middle east, and a small group of fools have their hands full in a wild time in Denmark's history when the nation is pulling itself together, but where multiple men see their chances to become King--even if it means betraying their promises.<br /><br />Fans of the Shakespear play will enjoy Gordon's retelling of the story--and the surprise ending. But the enjoyment is not limited to Shakespear fans. The idea of a medieval Fools Guild which wroks for peace is a strong one that has served Gordon well across a number of these stories (and something we need more of in our world today).<br /><br />If you enjoy historical mystery with a touch of humor, you don't want to miss Alan Gordon's Fool series--and AN ANTIC DISPOSITION is a great one to get started with.	2005-01-13
392233:US	49115690	R2ZLMPAB71MO3T	0399152180	237402282	Melancholy Baby (A Sunny Randall Novel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great Parker dialogue--too much psychology	College student Sarah Markham suspects her parents are not her biological parents and that they've been hiding a secret from her. When they deny it, she hires private detective Sunny Randall to find out. Sunny doesn't like the parents much, Sunny has problems liking anybody. Still, since they claim to be Sarah's biological parents, it seems odd that they won't agree to submit to a simple DNA test that would verify their claims. When Sunny pushes, Sarah is beaten up in her dorm room and warned to stop the investigation. All of a sudden, a simple case of confirming biological parentage becomes something dangerous--maybe even deadly.<br /><br />Relying on the help of assorted cops, ex-cops, super-tough gay bartenders, a mob-connected ex-husband, and super-psychologist Susan Silverman, Sunny tries to get to the bottom of the case, protect her client from another beating, and to deal with her own issues at the same time. And Sunny does have issues.<br /><br />Author Robert B. Parker has a distinct style all his own. He tells his stories with a heavy dose of dialogue, keeping the reader moving quickly from page to page. Sunny Randall is much like Parker's other detectives--tough, witty, unwilling to back down, opinionated, and quick with a quip.<br /><br />Although MELANCHOLY BABY is an enjoyable read, it lacks some of the emotional punch of the early Spenser novels. At one point, I found myself wondering if I'd read this book before (I hadn't, but it is strongly similar to some of Parker's other stories). Also, I found the psychology moments to be distractions rather than necessary to the story (and Sunny's belief that her ex-husband loves her more than his current wife is creepy). Every author has issues that he/she works through in his/her novels and Parker is no exception. The stories would be more enjoyable, though, if he used a bit less of a blunt object.<br /><br />Bottom line--MELANCHOLY BABY is a quick enjoyable read. The mystery moves along and hangs together. Sunny Randall is an interesting character and Parker's dialogue is skillful--hardboiled detective at its best. Despite some reservations, I'm happy to recommend this book.together. Sunny Randall is an interesting character and Parker's dialogue is skillful--hardboiled detective at its best. Despite some reservations, I'm happy to recommend this book.	2005-01-11
396024:US	49115690	R1MWBEF4UAJ93D	0373766165	153117575	Sins Of A Tanner: The Tanners of Texas (Harlequin Desire)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Warm and emotional	Whit Tanner, youngest of the Tanner boys, has always felt like something of an outsider since he was adopted. Without the trademark Tanner looks and charm, he's the only unmarried brother--and he imagines it'll stay that way. He's found some measure of success as a horse trainer, and he's carved a life for himself. Then she comes back into his life--Melissa Jacobs the woman who betrayed him by marrying his best friend the moment his back was turned. Recently widowed and with a little boy to raise, Melissa turned to Whit as a last resort. She needs someone to train her late husband's stud so he can be sold for top dollar.<br /><br />Whit at first refuses to even talk to Melissa. But when he finds out Matt left her in dire financial straits, he caves in. He can train War Lord without seeing much of Melissa herself, he reasons. But little Grady, Melissa's son, worms his way into Whit's heart, as does his mother when they both get over being angry and let their hearts remember the young love they left behind. Whit is even thinking about marriage, and he's determined to be a better stepfather than the one he had. But can their newfound love withstand the secret Melissa has kept from Whit?<br /><br />Moreland tells a warm, emotional story with a strong sense of place as Whit, the perennial outsider, finds out what it's like to belong. The story pulls you along effortlessly for a pleasant evening's read	2005-01-08
396274:US	49115690	RI2PJWWTKJMMM	0312315325	199478987	Choke Point: A Brinker Mystery (Brinker P.I.)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nicely done noire mystery	Arizona private detective Brinker doesn't want to go back to Mexico. When a pretty reporter asks for his help investigating a death and a story, Brinker turns her down. But when April Lennox becomes the next victim, Brinker feels personally involved. Unfortunately for him, everyone seems to be quiet and no one knows anything. The Mexican police think April's death is just another sex crime. The Arizona police have no reason to get involved--there is no obvious connection to the unidentified body on their side of the border. Which leaves Brinker with nothing but his instincts and an IOU he really hadn't wanted to call from Mexican drug-lords.<br /><br />A reporter makes enemies. One of those enemies just might be an ex-boyfriend who got abusive when his girlfriends didn't cooperate. Possible, but Brinker thinks the truth is more complicated. Because April had been investigating a story that involved oppression and murder, Brinker thinks of the maquilas--border factories set up by companies fleeing the wages of the USA. His suspicions become more pointed when he learns that a number of murders seem to have maquila connections. April could have been investigating one of those--but would someone really kill an alternative press reporter just to cover up a bit of union-busting?<br /><br />Author James C. Mitchell spins a delightful noire story. Brinker has problems with his women--April is murdered, his longtime girlfriend has left Arizona to move to New York, away from Brinker's dangerous life, and he can never quite connect with longtime best-friend Gabi. He ends up putting his trust in druglords who put even less value on human life than the maquila owners. Still, guilt and that strange private investigator honor keep Brinker on the job--until things get personal.<br /><br />Mitchell's writing gave me a strong sense of place--of windswept LA, the deserts of Arizona, and the frenetic border towns of Mexico--where jobs, money, drugs, and sex create a vibrant but dangerous society. Once the story really got going, it dragged me in and kept me reading. Nicely done, Mr. Mitchell.t dangerous society. Once the story really got going, it dragged me in and kept me reading. Nicely done, Mr. Mitchell.	2005-01-08
399672:US	49115690	R3743ODQSFIGO0	0803496850	328193284	Ever So Humble (Avalon Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming tale of risk-taking and true love	Since her mother suffered a stroke, Marisa Orlando has lost her home and been forced to move into a deteriorating apartment. But at least the apartment is a wonderful community. She has friends there, a support group. And all of that is going be destroyed by gentrification--by Lee Ramon's plan to turn the apartment into expensive condominiums. Marisa can't afford the down payment on a condo--not with so much of her salary going to pay her mother's hospital bills.<br /><br />Construction manager Lee Ramon has sunk a good part of his fortune into this conversion--and needs to complete the building on time and on schedule is he isn't going to lose everything. Thanks to the partners he took on to finance the deal, he is constrained on what he can do and who he can hire. But all of a sudden, his worst problem seems to be the sexy spitfire down the hall. Marisa pushes him to look for ways that her community can be maintained. She doesn't seem to understand that bringing the building up to code is expensive--that if he did nothing, her building would be condemned within a few years and that community would be shattered anyway. And with the attraction Lee feels for Marisa, he wants to find a way to make her happy--but not if it means losing everything.<br /><br />Marisa is always quick to jump to the most negative conclusions about Lee--but it takes her friends to break it to her that she's sabotaging herself--she's so busy protecting her heart that she won't give him a chance. Certainly he does things to her heart that she's never experienced before. Even when he agrees to a 'sweat-equity' plan that will let the residents work off some of their down payments, she insists on looking for the trick, for Lee's way of making his bottom line.<br /><br />Only when everything seems lost--for both Lee and Marisa--are the two finally willing to listen to their hearts. But then, is it too late?<br /><br />Author Fran Shaff adopts a highly approachable style in telling a charming story of misunderstandings. Marisa has been hurt before, lost everything, and is afraid to commit--even when true love comes along. Shaff does a fine job balancing Marisa's emotional responses with Lee's more pragmatic, but no less heartfelt concerns and needs. The resolution offers a bit of a surprise, but an ending that offers hope for the future.<br /><br />EVER SO HUMBLE is suitable for both young-adult and adult romance readers.rming story of misunderstandings. Marisa has been hurt before, lost everything, and is afraid to commit--even when true love comes along. Shaff does a fine job balancing Marisa's emotional responses with Lee's more pragmatic, but no less heartfelt concerns and needs. The resolution offers a bit of a surprise, but an ending that offers hope for the future.  <br /> <br />EVER SO HUMBLE is suitable for both young-adult and adult romance readers.	2005-01-05
402697:US	49115690	RIXAA8JBS80FN	0765304007	148487668	Petty Treason: A Sarah Tolerance Mystery	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent look into Regency England and the role of women	Fallen woman Sarah Tolerance makes her living as an investigator and it's no huge surprise when an anxious brother contacts her to investigate his brother-in-law's murder. Not that anyone really regrets the death of the French emigre who tortured his wife and others, spent more money than he made, and spent his time in dangerous company. Finding the killer soon takes second place to keeping the victim's widow, Anne d'Aubigny, from the pursuit of English Law--law that was especially vigilent against that most horrible of crimes--a wife's murder of her husband.<br /><br />Sarah's investigation soon puts her in harm's way--she is attacked in the street, as is one of her witnesses. Undeterred by the attacks, she continues her search and finds a second mystery--the victim had recently found himself with some level of wealth--without any apparent source. The more Sarah looks, the more it appears that there are layers of complexity hidden, that the d'Aubigny murder is only a part of a plot that might threaten England itself--at a time when every resource is stretched to support the ongoing war against the French and Napoleon.<br /><br />Author Madeleine E. Robins provides a fascinating look at Regency-era England, diving below the manners and misunderstandings of most Regency writings to examine how a woman might make her way in a time when sexism was viewed as natural and when a woman without a man's protection was seen as fair game. Robins' strong writing engages the reader and draws us into a mystery that continues to reveal new depths--leading from a simple murder to possible treason against the nation itself. The sharp twist at the end left me, at least, nodding with appreciation.<br /><br />I look forward to reading more mysteries by Robins.	2005-01-03
403908:US	49115690	R3D2QXTML11MHX	082177767X	654535476	A Rogue In A Kilt (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Charming innocence--the Knight meets a Pagan	Sir Angus McDougall has one chance--if he can marry a Lady within three months, his Lord will grant him a fief of his own. The only problem is, Angus's reputation goes before him. 'Blood' is known for eating his enemies' livers on the battlefield and few women are prepared to put up with that--expecially the kind of noble woman he needs to win the bet and his property. Things only get worse when he runs across a beautiful woman in the woods--a woman he believes he's accidentally injured when he tries to save her from a wolf.<br /><br />Birdie 'Shame' is among the last of her kind--a pagan, worshipper of the Goddess, and a Spae/healer, using the Goddess's power to take the injuries of others onto herself. Weakened by saving her friend the wolf, Birdie can't resist when Angus drags her from her safe glade and sets off across Scotland.<br /><br />Angus doesn't know what he has in Birdie--other than a beautiful woman who just doesn't meet the qualifications he needs for his fiefdom--but others do, and they want her back. A witch/healer is a useful tool for a medieval Scottish lord--especially one who intends to make war on his neighbors. Killing Blood McDougall would just be a bonus.<br /><br />It doesn't take Birdie long to fall in love with Angus, but that only makes her problems worse. In Medieval Scotland, being a Pagan isn't a choice, it's an execution waiting to happen. Hidden away in her glade, she was safe, but Angus insists on dragging her out in public. Unfortunately, although he claims her as his 'woman,' he remains steadfast on his goal to find a noble woman to wed. Naturally, life doesn't make that easy for him.<br /><br />Author Sandy Blair combines humor and adventure in an exciting second novel. Birdie is the perfect innocent, brought up by herself, protected from the world but now a woman and ready to experience it. Although Angus has seen the world, he too retains a sort of primative innocence that makes him a perfect match for the feisty Pagan. Blair's wit shines through in the continued confusion and miscommunication between the Knight and the Pagan--I found the scene where Birdie became convinced Angus was merely fattening her up to eat her especially funny.<br /><br />Fans of Blair's first book, A MAN IN A KILT (see our review) will be happy to see Duncan and Lady Beth again--as they cope with combining modern ideas and industry with the charm of Medieval Scotland.agan. Blair's wit shines through in the continued confusion and miscommunication between the Knight and the Pagan--I found the scene where Birdie became convinced Angus was merely fattening her up to eat her especially funny.  <br /> <br />Fans of Blair's first book, A MAN IN A KILT (see our review) will be happy to see Duncan and Lady Beth again--as they cope with combining modern ideas and industry with the charm of Medieval Scotland.	2005-01-02
405156:US	49115690	R1RRKFW27FN0WN	0756401615	914009783	Phoenix and Ashes (Elemental Masters, Book 3)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Cinderella with a nice Tarot twist	When her father remarries and heads off to war, Eleanor Robinson is left in her wicked stepmother's power. The stepmother, Allison, really is wicked--and is a dark Earth-Mage to boot. When Eleanor's father is killed in the trenches of World War I, Allison confines Eleanor to the house, causes everyone in the English village to forget she even exists, and turns her into a servant.<br /><br />Eleanor is miserable with her enslavement--and with the frustration of her hopes to go to Oxford. When her godmother, a less powerful witch, notifies her that Eleanor is an untrained Fire-Mage, Eleanor sees a chance to break free--but she needs allies and her stepmother's compulsion prevents her from seeking them--or even speaking of how she is being treated. Although Eleanor has fallen for the neighborhood Baron--who also happens to be a war hero and an Air Mage, she can't tell him what is wrong. But if she can only make it to the costume ball, she hope she'll discover real allies.<br /><br />Author Mercedes Lackey retells the Cinderella fairy tale with an interesting twist of elemental magic. After a somewhat slow first half, with way too much of Eleanor feeling sorry for herself, thinking that she is being treated no better than a servant--as if it's okay to treat servants like that but not her--and a strangely powerful but helpless Allison who can't simply accomplish what she needs by magic but must somehow gain the support of others, Lackey picks up the pace. The use of the Tarot in Eleanor's dream-training is fascinating and worth even more time than Lackey put into it. The story rushes to an exciting conclusion as Allison proves ready to take any step necessary for her success--no matter what the cost to those around her.	2005-01-01
407492:US	49115690	R3I73WKBYYS8BL	0399152059	902551352	Northern Lights	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strong writing overcomes simple mystery/cliched situations	After the death of his partner (for which he holds himself responsible), Nate Burke leaves the mean streets of Baltimore and heads as far away as possible--to Lunacy, Alaska where he has been offered the job of police chief. In Lunacy, he begins to find himself, to heal--and it doesn't hurt that the biggest crimes involve kids breaking windows and the occasional moose. The biggest crimes, that is, until a long dead climber is discovered in an ice-cave, with an axe in his chest.<br /><br />Although he vanished many years before, Bush Pilot Meg Galloway has never really recovered from her father's disappearance. How could he just walk away, leaving her? When a group of climbers discovers her father's murdered body, Meg knows she has to find the killer--bring him to justice.<br /><br />As these two damaged people work together to solve the mystery, they discover that the instant attraction that flared between them is more than just desire. Although Nate continually annoys Meg with his ordering her around and overprotectiveness, she recognizes that the loss of her father may have made her too independent, too unwilling to accept love because of the loss that love sometimes brings.<br /><br />Author Nora Roberts shows her writing talent by taking the overused cliche of the embittered and damaged, partner-losing cop--and actually makes us care about this person, his problems, and his happiness. Her strong writing brings the cold of an Alaska winter to life, and paints each of the damaged citizens of Lunacy vividly.<br /><br />My advice is to read NORTHERN LIGHTS for the characters. The romance is a bit simplified and readers are likely to guess the killer's identity a couple of hundred pages before Nate and Meg finally bite, but Roberts makes us care about these people--and that is the essence of romance.	2004-12-30
409961:US	49115690	R1DGGL3IGD3I42	1896764916	476885849	See Jane Run! (A Jane Yeats Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well written and entertaining story	True Crime writer Jane Yeats has suffered for years after her partner's death at the hands of a serial killer. But when the man convicted of those crimes is himself killed in prison--and DNA evidence absolves him of at least one of the murders he is supposed to have committed, Jane starts to wonder if the killer is still on the loose. If so, she intends to pay him back.<br /><br />With revenge as a motive, Jane cold-turkeys her drinking and cigarette habits, and steps into Toronto (Canada)'s seamy underworld. As she has written several books on corrupt cops, Jane is not surprised that the police officials refuse to admit they might have made a mistake. An ex-con, though, tells her a different story--the killer who falsely confessed was set up for a prison assassination--and the guards were involved.<br /><br />With occasional help from her cowboy-dressing bar-owning mother, plus-sized lesbian/Indian friend, and a fellow crime writer, Jane digs deeper into the mess that she had spent years refusing to think about--and equipping herself for the day she can kill whoever killed her lover.<br /><br />Author Liz Brady makes Jane a sympathetic character even as she pursues the goal of breaking the law by taking justice into her own hands. In her dealings with others, the reader can see the warmth that Jane would deny having--and her suffering certainly motivates her feelings of anger.<br /><br />It did seem to me that Jane was a bit slow to pick up on the actual killer--the reader will certainly guess who killed Peter long before Jane makes that leap. But the strong characterization, Jane's relationship with other, and the sense of place in Jane's Torronto more than make up for any reader frustrations with Jane's blind spot. Brady added a nice twist at the end, giving the reader an extra jolt of excitement in a well written and entertaining story.	2004-12-28
411922:US	49115690	RFBMGQQLWWXDU	0425198146	510185336	Wife of Moon (Wind River Reservation Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well written with fascinating historical background	A century ago, an Arapaho woman was killed while a photographer staged a Native American raid at the reservation. Three Indians were convicted of the crime and put to death. In the present day, an exhibition of the photographer's work is being held on the Arapaho reservation. When the museum curator vanishes, and another Arapaho woman is killed, Father John O'Malley and Arapho attorney Vickey Holden both believe that there must be a connection. Of course, the connection might just be an Indian with a wandering eye.<br /><br />Author Margaret Coel introduces a rich set of suspects. Could T. J. Painted Horse have murdered his wife for the insurance money? Or could irate Indians--or rich businessmen killed her in an attempt to pressure T. J. to back off of his efforts to prevent exploitation of the methane reserves under the reservation? Then there's the scary husband of the museum curator. An ex-CIA agent, Eric Loftus has killed before--and seems to have an unhealthy obsession over his wife.<br /><br />Coel gradually unfolds the mystery, using flashbacks to 1907 and the first murder to let the reader know more than the protagonists and up the suspense. Coel's writing keeps the story moving along and the reader engaged throughout. The Native American setting and the historical details add interest. I would have liked to see a more satisfying ending to the story, but what was for me a downbeat end is certainly in keeping with the background to Coel's story.	2004-12-27
413395:US	49115690	R386PF7QX01EJN	0380974916	208008744	The Shadow Roads (The Swans' War, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Exciting conclusion to outstanding series	For thousands of years, a powerful spell has kept 'Death' in his own realm, separating that land from the world of the living. But now that spell is coming unravelled. The ages-long war between the children of Wyrr (now magically joined with the river of the same name) is being joined again and Hafydd is willing to break the last spells that hold death in his place to achieve victory. Hafydd's siblings, together with local allies, have tried to defeat Hafydd before his destructiveness ends the entire world, but their efforts continually fall short--Hafydd is powerful and has powerful allies.<br /><br />The battle between the children of the river is mirrored by a war between two ancient families--the Wills and the Toren--a war incited by Hafydd to gain him power over human armies. Although Hafydd leaves on a quest to find and kill his father, the armies he gathered and controlled still threaten destruction and await for his return.<br /><br />Following the Shadow Roads, Wyrr's youngest son, Alaan, tries to catch up with his brother--but seems always too late. But Hafydd's plans have been a bit overly complex and Prince Michael, whose father Hafydd murdered to seize control of his armies, survives and hopes to regain control.<br /><br />If it all seems a bit complex, it is. THE SHADOW ROADS is the third and final volume of THE SWANS' WAR--a major and powerful epic. In the first two volumes, author Sean Russell developed his characters and made us care about their suffering and their survival. THE SHADOW ROADS starts with action and continues that way throughout. Chase and battle fill its pages as the children of Wyrr come together for an ultimate conflict.<br /><br />For me, THE SHADOW ROADS lacked some of the emotional depth of the earlier novels in the series, but it certainly delivers thrilling action and danger. Those who have read the first two books will definitely want to grab this one and they won't be disappointed. If you're a fan of epic fantasy and you haven't been introduced to the series, THE SHADOW ROAD is NOT the place to start, but this is an excellent series. Give it a try.and you haven't been introduced to the series, THE SHADOW ROAD is NOT the place to start, but this is an excellent series. Give it a try.	2004-12-25
415835:US	49115690	R2GAURXZL7W9O2	0345461568	973171171	Sliding Scales: A Pip & Flinx Adventure	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Space opera with a message	Upon the urging of his spaceship, Flinx decides to take a vacation on a little-known desert planet that is nominally independent but operating within the zone of control of the AAnn Empire. The AAnn aren't precisely at war with the humans and their Thranx allies, but they aren't exactly at peace either--and Flinx, along with his pet flying lizard Pip, are admitted only if accompanied by a minder, the AAnn, Takuuna VBXLLW.<br /><br />When the minder loses his temper and pushes Flinx over a cliff, the human nearly dies and loses his memory. But the minder is promoted to be in charge of anti-terrorism activities. Because somewhere on the planet, someone, or some group of someones, has decided that the AAnn have got to go. Could the human really have been in league with the local Vssey? One thing Takuuna knows for sure--if the human comes back and remembers Takuuna's brief loss of control, the results would not be career-enhancing. The war on terrorism is important, of course, but not more important than Takuuna's career growth--especially not to Takuuna.<br /><br />Rescued by a commune of low-status AAnn artists, Flinx spends time with the semi-enemy aliens, and discovers a growing affection toward many of them. Gradually, most members of the commune come to accept him as a fellow artist. While he wishes for a return of his memory and some sense of his goals in life, he savors the beauty and art around him. Of course, his peace can't last--because eventually Takuuna will learn that the human isn't dead and is a threat to his future.<br /><br />Author Alan Dean Foster combines an engaging space-opera tale with a look at the way career-minded bureaucrats and politicians can create vast conspiracies out of their own needs and ambitions. Foster toys with the notion that art might be a unifying theme between intelligent species--and part of a bridge that might be more effective than embassies and politicians. It's an idealistic view, but he develops it well.<br /><br />Fans of the Pip & Flinx series will find SLIDING SCALES to be a bit more psychological and a lot less adventure-oriented than they are used to. From a continuity perspective, the critical contribution of SLIDING SCALES appears to be Flinx's greater understanding of the AAnn--and the de-demonification of this interesting and dangerous species.> <br />Fans of the Pip & Flinx series will find SLIDING SCALES to be a bit more psychological and a lot less adventure-oriented than they are used to. From a continuity perspective, the critical contribution of SLIDING SCALES appears to be Flinx's greater understanding of the AAnn--and the de-demonification of this interesting and dangerous species.	2004-12-22
417472:US	49115690	R17CHPC1PN8N7W	0743488512	226606227	Paladins	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Shows promise but too much 'wandering' and 'talking'	After he had overthrown his uncle, Arthur the Tyrant, Mordred the Great's armies had united Britain and gradually conquered the western world. Centuries later, the Kingdom (England?) has expanded through western Europe. Only the diminished Empire of Byzantium, and the powerful Caliphanate remain unconquered. But evil is not always associated with a state. And the Kingdom's powerful Knights of the Order of Crown, Shield, and Dragon exist to defend Mordred's Pendragon kingdom from all enemies--including supernatural enemies.<br /><br />Order Knights Gray and Bear recruit disgraced ex-Knight Cully to help them deal with a dangerous discovery--a new magical sword has been discovered. These magical swords are the core of the Knight's power; in the wrong hands, they could do horrible damage. Together with fisherman Niko, Cully and the others thrash around the Mediterranean, trying to provoke whoever is responsible for creating these new swords into a response.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Kingdom Admiral DuPay plots for the war he knows will eventually pit the Kingdom against the Caliphanate. When the Caliphanate's representatives tell him that they are equally concerned about the outbreak of evil magic, he doesn't know whether to believe them--but he isn't afraid to take whatever chances he needs to if it will help the Kingdom.<br /><br />Author Joel Rosenberg creates an intriguing alternate history world--one where magic works, where an Anglican version of protestantism developed independently of Henry VIII (who never lived because there was never a Norman conquest), and where gunpowder has never replaced traditional weapons of war. His morally conflicted Gray is a powerful and compelling character, while Niko gives the reader someone young and heroic, yet imperfect, to identify with.<br /><br />After a strong opening, though, much of the book seemed spent by our heros (and DuPay) wandering around thinking, talking with each other, and not really doing much. In addition, possibly because PALADINS is the first book in a series, a number of loose ends remained--certainly the shadow creatures seemed to be stuck in rather than integral to the plot.<br /><br />Rosenberg is adept at manipulating reader emotions. When he lets himself go, as he does at the beginning and end of this story, he creates superior fantasy. But too much of this book was sailing around, going nowhere. I'll look forward to seeing where he takes this series, but for me, PALADINS fell short of its potential.ition, possibly because PALADINS is the first book in a series, a number of loose ends remained--certainly the shadow creatures seemed to be stuck in rather than integral to the plot.  <br /> <br />Rosenberg is adept at manipulating reader emotions. When he lets himself go, as he does at the beginning and end of this story, he creates superior fantasy. But too much of this book was sailing around, going nowhere. I'll look forward to seeing where he takes this series, but for me, PALADINS fell short of its potential.	2004-12-20
419889:US	49115690	R31URDRFWKGSAG	0756402018	284619809	The Return Of NightFall	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Exciting adventure and great world-building	Once, Nightfall had been the most feared criminal and assassin in the world. But now he's reformed. A master of disguise, Nightfall now uses his original form--Sudian--and has sworn never to take up his Nightfall persona again. After all, what use is a demon when Nightfall serves as chancellor to the King, is engaged to a beautiful woman, and has nothing but council meetings and banquets to look forward to? But when King Edward is kidnapped while Nightfall is off on a Magehunt, Nightfall is the logical suspect. To escape his sentence of execution, he needs to bring Edward back alive--and soon. But Sudian isn't the best man to track criminals through the gutters of the world--and he's sworn never to become Nightfall again.<br /><br />Author Mickey Zuker Reighert establishes a fascinating world and magical system (some percentage of humans are born with a magical talent--a talent that Mages can capture, but only by torturing the talented to death). Putting Nightfall in a position where he must violate one of his most sacred promises--either by failing his King, or by failing himself, his fiancee, and his promise to the King by becoming Nightfall again--increases reader sympathy for Nightfall and increases our investment in a successful outcome--however unlikely that outcome appears. Nightfall's own natal talent, the ability to change his weight, doesn't sound particularly interesting, but Reighert uses it to the full.<br /><br />Reighert introduces several fascinating secondary characters, especially the pirate Celdurant (who deserves a story of his own) adding to the book's depth. This was the first book by Reighert I've read, but she's published a number and her professionalism shows through.	2004-12-18
421385:US	49115690	RXAMCOP4ALJ3Z	1876962771	667699256	Roadworks	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating near-future thriller	Hugh Ryan's job might not be glamorous, but it is important. In the near future, Brussels has developed a highly sophisticated traffic network. Computers route cars around conjestion. Huge parking elevators keep cars below ground and yet easily accessible. Efficient trains and a subway system move hundreds of thousands of people to their jobs. When roads fill, computers send cars to another route. When too many become congested, the same computers send the cars to the rapid transit centers. And Hugh, along with a small number of fellow workers, controls the entire system.<br /><br />When things start to go bad, Hugh springs into action--and the system does its best to self-repair. But the system was never designed to deal with simultaneous toxic truck wrecks in every major intersection, power failure in the subway, the collapse of the train system, and malfunctions in the parking elevators that turn the entire city into a stationary parking lot. Hugh isn't surprised with the call comes in--a terrorist organization is holding the entire city, including heads of state from all of Nato, for ransom.<br /><br />Reading between the lines of the terrorist threat, Hugh realizes that someone in his own transport agency is somehow involved--and sets out to find who did it. What follows is an action-packed adventure with plenty of plot twists and even a touch of romance.<br /><br />Author Gerard Readett makes his near-future traffic scenario feel real and interesting. Hugh, with his lost wife and anti-establishment tendencies, makes a sympathetic protagonist and Readett mixes in just enough scenes from those caught up in the disaster--and from the point of view of the criminals and terrorists who combine to take the city captive--to make the action seem real. I wish Readett had relied a bit less on coincidence in putting Hugh in just the right place to do so much against the terrorist threat, but that's a minor quibble with a really fascinating story.	2004-12-16
424377:US	49115690	RV03XBHSN1CBZ	0743488458	987212414	Cally's War (Posleen War Series #4)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	After the war, winning the peace	The Posleen invaders have been driven back, but Earth has not recovered--and humanities enemies continue to seek ways to undermine the one carnivorous species which has joined the anti-Posleen alliance. The Bane Sidhe exists to battle against humanity's enemies, but also against the Darhel--one of the races of the Galactic Confederation who have achieved a near-monopoly on power in the anti-Posleen alliance. Although the Posleen remain as constant threats, other threats must also be fought--and the most dangerous enemies are sometimes our closest friends.<br /><br />Cally O'Neal is the top assassin in the Bane Sidhe organization. When the Bane Sidhe learns of a potential leak, Cally is sent to Saturn's moon, Titan, in the guise of a Fleet Captain (an especially curvatious Fleet Captain as the book's cover attests). But Bane Sidhe intelligence is more deeply damaged than anyone had realized and Cally's team becomes endangered.<br /><br />Authors John Ringo and Julie Cochrane take a break from Ringo's usual militaristic stuff to delve into the undercover war. With alien medical technology, physically surviving decades of assassination and spy-craft is possible, but emotional survival is more challenging--and it's interesting to see Ringo and Cochrane deal with these more subtle issues.<br /><br />From time to time, the story got confusing--the whole purpose of the Titan investigation was never clearly explained, nor were the structures of the Fleet/Fleet Strike and the Galactic Confederation laid out in as much detail as I would have wanted to make this story stand alone. Still, the story delivers non-stop action, enough sexual titilation to appeal to readers who might be captured by the graphic cover, and also highlights the ever-present danger that mobilizing to defeat an external enemy may just result in a loss of liberties and of all the reasons the battle was initially joined.	2004-12-14
425605:US	49115690	R1P9BPBRRLPAHN	0786933607	341803975	The Two Swords: The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book III	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Hardcore fans only	Finally united by their god-king Obould, the Orcs stand at the gates to Mithral Hall--the great Dwarf kingdom and mining center. But when his initial attack falters, Obould pulls back--he'd rather defend the world's first Orc kingdom than waste his resources attacking the well-prepared and heavily trapped Dwarf caves. With his giant, dark-elf, and troll 'allies' repeatedly proving to be undependable, Obould knows that hanging onto what he has already conquered will be challenge enough.<br /><br />Renegade dark-elf, Drizzt Do'Urden, falsely believing that his friends and allies have all been killed by Obould, joins with an elf to rescue a pegasus, then makes single-handed war on the orcs. He knows that if he can somehow kill Obould, the orcs will shatter--as they have shattered so many times before. What he doesn't count on, though, is that Obould really does manifest the Orc-god--and killing a god is a tough challenge, even for a dark-elf.<br /><br />Author R. A. Salvatore delivers a mix of heroic action and introspection. Drizzt continues to evolve, slowly learning to leave his drow preconceptions behind him and become a true-elf. Obould is almost a sympathetic hero, holding his people together and helping them build their first kingdom despite attacks by elves, humans, dwarves, and the backstabbing by the ice giants and especially the drow. Salvatore's writing is always professional and smooth--and doesn't falter in THE TWO SWORDS.<br /><br />Fans of the movements of dwarf armies, clever dwarf traps, and of Drizzt Do'Urden will definitely not want to miss this one. If you aren't already a Salvatore fan, however, you might want to give THE TWO SWORDS a pass. There isn't enough character development or story arc to appeal to those not already deeply involved.	2004-12-13
427377:US	49115690	R3OVMT86L3KHGE	0743487095	759664800	Roger Zelazny's The Dawn of Amber Book 3: To Rule in Amber (New Amber Trilogy) (Bk. 3)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Enjoyable Amber story	Dworkin has created a new pattern--one that sends shock-waves and chaos storms throughout the old world of Chaos, but now he and his family have been denounced as traitors. Oberon, Dworkin's son, does his best to gather up the remnants of the family. The lords of Chaos will not sit still for the creation of a new power--one that might even be more potent than the ancient Logrus which forms the basis for the entire realm of Chaos. Fiercely manipulating the new shadow worlds cast by the pattern, Oberon begins construction of an entire new world--the one true world of Amber.<br /><br />The pattern allows possibilities and alliances that were impossible in Chaos--but the ancient rules of betrayal and military might still apply. Oberon has many enemies, but only some of them are in the party of Chaos's king. Even within Chaos, a power struggle threatens to upset the king's rule--but whether this will benefit Oberon's family or destroy it remains to be seen.<br /><br />Author John Gregory Bethancourt continues building the stories of early Amber. Bethancourt writes of the generation before Roger Zelazny's wonderful 'nine princes,' a generation where Chaos and Amber mingle more closely and where Amber is not yet the center of the universe. A respectful co-creator, Bethancourt is careful to set the stage for Zelazny's even more powerful stories.<br /><br />TO RULE IN AMBER shares the strengths of the earlier novels in this series. Fans of Amber will definitely want to read what may be the strongest of Bethancourt's series, so far. I thought Bethancourt left a few story-lines dangling (wasn't Oberon going to come back to the head in the tree), and the eventual climactic battle was a bit of an anticlimax. Still, that didn't keep RULE from being an entertaining re-examination of the Amber creation story.	2004-12-11
427749:US	49115690	R2QP3CSD32KXV7	0778320901	393019234	When Christmas Comes	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Heart-warming Christmas tale	When her 21-year-old daughter announces she's too busy to come home for Christmas, mother Emily Springer decides to travel across the country to spend it with her. After all, the two have always spent Christmas together. She arranges to swap houses with a Harvard professor (Charles) who wants to escape the Christmas bustle and heads for Boston. But when she gets there, her daughter has other plans--plans that definitely don't involve having a mother tagging along. Abandoned in Boston, with no way to get home, Emily looks forward to the worst Christmas of her life. But Charles's mother, learning that a woman is staying in Charles's apartment, sends her other son, Ray, to investigate.<br /><br />Knowing that she hurt her best friend Emily's feelings, teacher Faith Kerrigan flies to Emily's house for the holidays. But Emily is in Boston and Grinch-like Charles Brewster has replaced her. Only her stellar cooking keeps Charles from tossing her out into the cold.<br /><br />Faith, Emily, Charles, and Ray all have bad experiences with Christmas--and have learned to expect to be alone. But this Christmas is different--a second chance for them to experience the magic of the season--and of love. Or will they simply go back to their ordinary lives, once the extraordinary events of Christmas have passed?<br /><br />Author Debbie Macomber tells a dependably well-written and emotionally satisfying story and WHEN CHRISTMAS COMES is no exception. It's a fast read, without the complexity of some of Macomber's recent 'big' novels, but just the thing to cosy up to around a fire as the Christmas season unfolds around us. Whether you're a grinch yourself, or a Christmas adict, there's a lot to like in this charming, if predictable, tale.	2004-12-11
427912:US	49115690	R1YK6XAZBPH787	0345440676	549569088	The Charnel Prince (The Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A big and well-written fantasy	The law of death has been overcome and magical creatures--creatures not seen for hundreds of years--begin to appear again. In the forest, people go savage and attack the priests and warriors who come to save them. In the Empire, the king has been murdered and his wife struggles to hold onto power. Evil priests attempt to create a new saint's walk--one that owes more to demons and evil than to anything good. The hope of the world lies with a teenage princess--who is being sought and betrayed by her father's killers. Meanwhile, a musician searches for the missing ending to a magical song he heard the day after the night of the purple moon.<br /><br />Author Greg Keyes weaves together the various strands of the story--Anne the princess along with her companions, Neil the knight sent to aid her, Leoff the composer, Muriele the Queen mother. Separated by hundreds of miles, each struggles to learn the horrible secret, the deadly magic that has overcome the fundamental law of the world--the dead stay dead. Without that law, evil magic knows no bounds.<br /><br />THE CHARNEL PRINCE is a big fantasy, and Keyes does a fine job humanizing it while sustaining its size. I especially liked Leoff--and his attempts to create music in a world where destruction seems the more likely creation. I would have liked to see a bit more growth in Anne--who was a bit too whiney for my tastes, and I found Neil too one-dimensional. Still, Keyes is a powerful author. His world-building is fascinating, the battle of the morally ambiguous against evil more compelling than standard good/evil stuff, and the action frequent.	2004-12-10
429207:US	49115690	R2G21AB80B5DR4	0756401968	967372453	Fitzpatrick's War	Books	5	5	18	N	N	Timely message in an anti-intellectual climate	Commoner Robert Bruce is picked by the son of the Consul, Lord Isaac Prophet Fitzpatrick, to join the august group Fitzpatrick calls his Basileis. After having his father killed, Fitzpatrick takes over consulship and launches a war on the rest of the world. A few million 'Yukons,' descendents of the primative farmers who survived the breakdown of western civilization, seem completely inadequate to the role of world conquerers, but Fitzpatrick has the help of satellite-based communications, biological weapons, and soldiers like Robert Bruce. Tens of millions of deaths later, Fitzpatrick is a new Alexander--standing alone in the world, but wondering who is really his friend.<br /><br />Author Theodore Judson tells the story of Fitzpatrick, and Bruce's actions and moral ambivalence, in the style of an old man's account, complete with pseudo-scholarly footnotes by an editor who believes everything Bruce says about the sainted Fitzpatrick must be a lie. Bruce's wife is a charming character, adding another note of humor to what could have been a heavy-handed story.<br /><br />The near-future world Judson describes, with a militaristic and hopelessly conservative anglo-descended society dominating the world through force, makes for interesting reading--and represents an interesting speculation of current political trends. The strong links between Fitzgerald and the equally mad Alexander--whose armies conquered the civilized world centuries earlier--make the story more interesting still.<br /><br />The detailed battle scene, where Bruce and the Yukon army slaughtered millions of Chinese soldiers, went on a bit, hammering home Judson's message.<br /><br />In our current age where conservative and anti-intellectual values join with military force, Judson's story contains an important message. This is a truly impressive accomplishment for a newcomer to the SF stage.	2004-12-09
433472:US	49115690	R3LNO0GAZTQGQ8	0765311283	298989194	Flash	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful world-building, great adventure	Ex-marine Jonat deVrai suffers from flashbacks to his marine days--when he was sent around the world fighting battles to keep North American multinational corporations from facing competition, but mostly he is a successful consultant. He's parlayed his economics expertise into a business analysing the impact of product placement in commercial entertainment--a job made difficult by privacy legislation. When he gets a major contract to see if product placement is being used in political campaigns, it seems like an interesting extension to his business. He knows his employers have a hidden agenda--who doesn't? What he doesn't know is that his report will have a lot more credibility if he ends up dead just after presenting it.<br /><br />deVrai is tougher to kill than most men. He has maintained (semi-legally) his marine enhancements. But he is just one man against the power of multinational organizations with much of the government, significant parts of law enforcement, and the ability to hire gangland thugs. He quickly realizes that he's in a moral quandry. If he does nothing, he'll end up dead, as will what remains of his family. But the only actions he can think of turn him into something of a terrorist. For an ex-marine, the choice isn't easy.<br /><br />An artificial intelligence within law enforcement offers a degree of information and some more tangible assistance. But everything deVrai does seems to make his own death that much of a necessity for the multinationals that rule most of the world.<br /><br />Author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. creates a fascinating near-future world building on political, environmental, and economic trends that are evident now. There is a strong political message in the story, but it's a message that neither current political party (in the US at least) is likely to be completely in synch with.<br /><br />Fans of SF will see Modesitt's debt to classics such as Heinlein's THE MOON IS A HARSH MISTRESS and others in his development of the relationship between humans and computer-based intelligence.<br /><br />I thought FLASH got off to a relatively slow start. Still, half the fun of Modesitt's work is in the world-building and this was very strong. Althoug FLASH lacked some of the emotional impact of some of Modesitt's works, I have no hesitation in recommending it highly.of the relationship between humans and computer-based intelligence.  <br /> <br />I thought FLASH got off to a relatively slow start. Still, half the fun of Modesitt's work is in the world-building and this was very strong. Althoug FLASH lacked some of the emotional impact of some of Modesitt's works, I have no hesitation in recommending it highly. <br />	2004-12-06
433852:US	49115690	R1Q12S1YX0JHTM	0821778315	4149739	The Naked Duke (Zebra Debut)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	An innocent American in regency England	When her father dies, American Sarah Hamilton travels to England hoping to meet up with her uncle, an Earl. When she arrives at an inn, too late to impose on her uncle, she decides to spend the night--only to be mistaken for a whore and to awaken in the morning having spent the night with a very handsome, and very naked, duke. Now, her reputation is in ruins and James, Duke of Alvord is pressured to offer for her hand in marriage. But she's a good republican. Couldn't everyone just sort of forget about that one night--a night where she's pretty sure nothing happened--and help her get a decent job as governess?<br /><br />James is not immune to the attraction of a beautiful woman, but there's something about Sarah Hamilton that sends his senses into overdrive. Persuading her to kiss him isn't too hard, but Sarah continues to resist his efforts to persuade her to marry him. When James' evil cousin Richard discovers that James is considering a wife, and potential heirs, Richard becomes a menace to both Sarah and James.<br /><br />Sarah and James try to work through misunderstandings that are encouraged by Richard--while Richard unleashes one plot after another aimed at destroying Sarah--or murdering his cousin. Although misunderstandings drive them apart, though, the deep passion each feels for the other continue bringing Sarah and James back together.<br /><br />Author Sally MacKenzie combines humor and suspense in her debut-novel, a regency-set historical. Innocent Sarah, with her ignorance about exactly what it takes to become pregnant makes for a charming fish-out-of-water in sex and status-obsessed London. James makes her perfect foil. MacKenzie's engaging writing keeps the reader entertained as she foils Richard's evil plots.	2004-12-06
434045:US	49115690	RO2WBZW0J809H	1932968202	611049115	The Get-to-the-Point Success Reader: Selections from the Writings of Napoleon Hill, Orison Swett Marden, Samuel Smiles, Herbert N. Casson, and Charles F. Haanel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great launching pad to discover classics of self-help	The editor, Rodney Ohebsion has a good idea. Sift through eight classic books dealing with \\"how to succeed\\" and condense them to 240 pages of the best-of-the-best concepts. Cull out the shiniest nuggets of advice and put them all in one place, so today's reader (with the attention span of a gnat) doesn't have to wade through a bunch of boring stuff to get what they need.<br /><br />And indeed, the Success Reader is packed with nuggets of wisdom. It's interesting, fast reading. Still, here is my basic problem with this approach: The passages that made the grade here are the ones the editor found most insightful at the time he put this compendium together. As an avid student of this type of book, I've read some of the volumes in their entirety, some many times. And what I've found is that each time I read, I get something different--and I suspect I glom onto the passages that are most relevant to whatever my issues of the moment are. So some of the passages Mr. Ohebsion included are the same ones I have highlighted in my much worn original copies of these books--but some are passages I skimmed and obviously didn't find so interesting. And some of the gems I underlined and starred were not included.<br /><br />Still, that's not to say the Success Reader isn't a worthwhile investment. Particularly if you are not familiar with the works of Napoleon Hill, Orison Swett Marden, Samuel Smiles, Herbert N. Casson, and Charles F. Haanel, this book is a fantastic introduction to their concepts. These guys were some of the pioneers who inspired uncounted later books on positive thinking, creative visualization, strategies for success, and overall life satisfaction. They wrote these books before there was a \\"Self-Help\\" or \\"New Age\\" section in every bookstore. But be aware that this condensed volume is only a launching pad. If the writings of one or more of these authors pique your interest, get the original texts and read them in their totality. See if you don't pick up a few more gems of wisdom you need.w more gems of wisdom you need.  <br />	2004-12-05
434167:US	49115690	RJG6FR8X9UD3Z	1571743812	92563499	Excuse Me, Your Life Is Waiting: The Astonishing Power of Feelings	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The law of attraction and making things happen	The subtitle of this book is \\"the astonishing power of feelings,\\" and that is the main thrust. You can't just visualize what you want out of life. You can't just want it, believe in it, and wait for it to happen. You have to infuse your dreams with emotion--positive, fizzy, upbeat, happy emotions, not in a worrisome, fretful way.<br /><br />Grabhorn isn't the first to write at length about the Law of Attraction--which says in a nutshell that, in the energy world, like attracts like. So if you apply emotional energy to anything, you draw it to you. If you worry about something (getting sick, getting fired) you're more likely to cause it to happen. And if you passionately visualize the job you'd like to have, the mate you'd like to marry ... well, you get the idea. But I have to say, this is one of the most fun and readable volumes on the subject I've ever read. It's packed with examples, from the author's own life and those of people she's known.<br /><br />Grabhorn deals with issues of money, relationships, health and other hot-button topics, weaving together a theory that actually makes some sense--and she guarantees that if you take her advice, you'll see results. (I don't know that she's willing to refund the price of the book if you don't see results, but I have to admit, her enthusiasm and sincerity are infectious.<br /><br />Even if this book doesn't irrevocably change your life (and, hey, it hasn't been thirty days for me, so I can't offer a testimonial one way or another) it will make you feel better about things, at least for the time it takes you to finish reading.	2004-12-05
434531:US	49115690	RA7OZMC974POB	0670033073	683116309	The Second Assistant: A Tale from the Bottom of the Hollywood Ladder	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very funny--but where's the sequel	Elizabeth Miller decides to change her career path from politics to Hollywood, and she's in for the culture shock of her life. She's hired as the second assistant to an ego-centric, drug-addicted but high-power agent--which means she gets every kind of abuse imaginable heaped on her and then some. Any normal person would have gone screaming back to Washington after the first week. But, somewhat perversely, Elizabeth is determined to stick it out--especially after she reads a script written by the guy who blends her lattes at the coffee shop. She recognizes brilliance, and she decides she wants to become a producer.<br /><br />I had to admire Elizabeth's poise and patience. With a few notable exceptions, she always seems to know what to say and do in the most impossible situations so that she doesn't lose her job (an ever-present risk). And her indifference to an amorous Hollywood heartthrob who was not used to hearing the word \\"no\\" made me want to cheer. I could not stop turning the pages as Elizabeth got herself into and out of one impossible situation after another as players and backstabbers took their turns with her. And though she navigated the shark-infested waters with aplomb, her emotional vulnerability was touching.<br /><br />I can't say the ending did much for me. While most things were wrapped up in a satisfying manner, I thought Elizabeth deserved more than she got in the end. Perhaps there's a sequel in the works?	2004-12-05
436081:US	49115690	R1Y46HO9GPXCKE	0373750560	351243059	The Forgotten Cowboy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lennox's strongest Harlequin American yet!	When she wakes up from a car accident, Willow Marsden discovers that she has a form of amnesia that makes her unable to recognize familiar things--like well-known faces. She still has all of her memories, like the way too-handsome cowboy Cal Chandler ruined her life, but she doesn't remember exactly what Cal looked like. When she meets a handsome man at a wedding, he sweeps her off her feet, charming her, kissing her, and asking her out on a date. He knows her, but she can't even begin to guess who this mysterious man might be. Still, anyone would be better than Cal--and now that her dreams of becoming a doctor are on the rocks (a doctor who couldn't recognize things, like lungs or hearts, would be a hazard), she needs to think about what else to do with her life.<br /><br />Cal Chandler has always loved Willow. But since her parents caught them in the act of making love, Willow has cut him out of her life, blaming him for her parents' decision not to let her go away to college. He's elated when she smiles at him, seems to enjoy being with him, actually kisses him, after years of rejecting him. When he finds that she's kissing a stranger and still thinks of him as her nemesis, he's shaken. Still, he won't stop until he explores the fascination. And now that Willow has to give up on her dreams of being a doctor, maybe she'll have time to make his dreams come true.<br /><br />Willow and Cal explore the passions that each has kept smoldering for years, and Willow helps Cal develop his business dream--working with difficult horses and other animals to help them adjust to their lives. He's helping Willow adjust to her life too--until everything changes and he realizes that she is giving up her dreams to let him pursue his own. Dreams are important. Can a love, however strong, survive if it is based on one of the lovers giving up everything she has built her life around?<br /><br />Author Kara Lennox weaves an emotional story that explores important issues of relationships and dreams. Lennox makes both characters sympathetic, and their relationship powerful. Because with each step toward deepening the relationship. the fundamental conflict between their goals becomes more clear. In THE FORGOTTEN COWBOY, Lennox may have her strongest Harlequin American yet!ationships and dreams. Lennox makes both characters sympathetic, and their relationship powerful. Because with each step toward deepening the relationship. the fundamental conflict between their goals becomes more clear. In THE FORGOTTEN COWBOY, Lennox may have her strongest Harlequin American yet!	2004-12-03
436505:US	49115690	R10TU2VZXYHYV1	1891873547	527924910	Dark Romance Anthology: The Abyss	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A different, but fascinating, take on romance	In typical romance, the handsome and upright (but occasionally arrogant and conflicted) hero finds redemption at the hands of the beautiful, virginal, and spunky-but-not-too-spunky heroine--leading to a happily ever after. Nothing wrong with that, right? But sometimes, it's fun to read something just a little different. The Dark Romance Group [...] pulled together a group of their authors to create an anthology of 'romances' with a difference. Eighteen stories, thirteen authors, and at least that many variations on the theme of romance gone different.<br /><br />THE ABYSS contains mummies, vampires, the god of destruction, a cold-blooded thief, a consentual slave, a man whose love is a fantasy, a budding romance where both the hero and heroine are lying to each other about their identities, even a professional assassin who falls for--something different. Pretty clearly, dark romance is a wide-open field and THE ABYSS does its best to convey some of the breadth possible when authors take off the constraints of traditional romance publishing and let themselves go.<br /><br />Most of the authors represented in THE ABYSS (CT Adams, Jordan Alexander, Allie Bates, Tabitha A. Bradley, Charlotte Boyette-Compo, Adrianna Dane, Amy Eastlake, Morgan Huxley, Steve Lazarowitz, Brenna Lyons, Terry Pray, Rob Preece, and Patricia A. Rasey) are extensively published in independent electronic press and the collection offers a uniformly high quality of story, writing, and production value.<br /><br />THE ABYSS isn't for everyone, but it also isn't all gloom and doom. There are moments of humor, clever twists, and human insights. Dark doesn't have to mean depressing and, while there were definitely some downbeat endings, the overall sense of the book is positive rather than negative.	2004-12-03
437500:US	49115690	R2IZQ9D43G0ULD	0007154607	133639227	Colors Insulting to Nature: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Funny, sad, and thoughtful look at fame and coming of age	While in a drunken depression, Peppy Normal discovers her life-path from the movie Fame. She'll enroll her children in the New York High School of Performing Arts--on their way to become celebrities. Their modest talent didn't matter--she'd incorporated the lessons of the movie deeply into her life. Unfortunately, that also meant inflicting them on her daughter, Liza. The first step toward New York was, perversely, in the opposite direction--to California. There Peppy opens the Normal Dinner Theater (where dinner was never served) and dresses pre-Freshman Liza like a tramp to take her to auditions and cattle-calls.<br /><br />With this background, Liza grows up (to the extent her aging process can be called growing up) confused and waiting for that one magical break. A colony of elves teaches her to use drugs to help the breakthrough and she tries this. While her brother retreats into himself, Liza takes the opposite course, finally ending up in L.A. in an ultimate moment of degradation and humiliation. The one thing she finds that she can make money at has no appeal to her. She wants to be a famous singer--no matter how modest her talent.<br /><br />Author Cintra Wilson teases the reader with author notes, and sends us on a roller-coaster rides of laugh-out-loud humor (certainly the performance of Sound of Music qualifies) and dark depression. The curse of fame and the easy myths that Hollywood perpetuates conspire to keep Liza from enjoying the few good things that do happen to her--there's always hope of that big break just around the corner.<br /><br />Wilson's writing style is conversational, engaging the reader. Her characters are definitely over-the-top, but Liza's horrible high school experience will ring true with many readers, and who hasn't toyed with the notion that they are only a discovery away from being a star. COLORS INSULTING TO NATURE is a fascinating and highly readable novel. I recommend it.	2004-12-02
441295:US	49115690	R1HKTP1SOI4HIM	082177848X	385893648	Get Bunny Love (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Enjoyable over-the-top humor	Natan McNulty needs an event planner. If he can do a bang-up job at the dog show, his aunt will back off on her decision to sell the business his father founded. The event-planning business is the only thing he has left from his late father and he swears he'll do anything it takes to keep it. Fortunately, Beatrice (Bunny) Love is available and seems to have the qualifications needed to be a creative event planner--even if she has never actually planned an event larger than an all-family birthday party. All he needs is for her to follow directions, toe the line, and above all, stay organized.<br /><br />Bunny Love believes in feng shui, in unleashing creative potential, and in wearing her pink bunny slippers at all possible (and some not so possible) occasions. When she meets hunky Nate McNulty, she sees tremendous potential for unleashed energy, for unblocked chakras. Sure she's had some unfortunate experiences before, but this time, she's sure everything will be fine.<br /><br />Two hospital visits (for Nate) later, Bunny is undeterred. She presses ahead with her schemes, all the while preparing for a perfect dog show. What Bunny doesn't realize is that Nate's aunt and his business rival have plans to sabotage the event, to make her the scapegoat, and to destroy whatever might be developing between them. When those schemes come to fruition, the biggest doggy-cocktail party in the world isn't going to be enough to save her.<br /><br />Author Kathleen Long goes way over the top in delivering a cute romantic comedy. Nate makes a fine romantic foil, motivated by his love for his dead parents. Long does a good job making the all-in-pink fiancee sympathetic. In fact, all of the women in this story are entertaining and well motivated. GET BUNNY LOVE is an entertaining read.	2004-11-29
443446:US	49115690	R16MGEZRWSS2NQ	0971714827	119837402	Money Shot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well written with great humor and insights	Alan Nichols (Nick) was already thinking about quitting his job at an advertising agency when he picks up a bottle of 'Bigg Fizz' that says 'winner.' Living in Las Vegas, Nick has plenty of experience being a winner--and it almost always costs him more than he can afford. Still, when a co-worker spots the winning bottle-cap, Nick calls and finds that he is, indeed, the winner. If he can sink a basketball from the three point line, he'll win one million dollars. Naturally Nick's wife Pam and daughter Kim are quick to help him spend the money--even before he wins it.<br /><br />When his boss refuses to let him take time off for practice, Nick quits, finds a coach (a former college woman's player) and begins to work on his game--and his inner game. But shooting baskets in practice is one thing, shooting when the money is on the line is something else. And by now, Nick has a host of people counting on him to make that shot.<br /><br />Author Brian Rouff (who also wrote the fine DICE ANGEL) combines humor, sharp insights into humanity, and powerful writing to propell the reader through his story. Nick is a great everyman, trying to keep his family together, worrying just a little about the onset of age, and prepared to believe that maybe, just this once, good things can happen.<br /><br />I read through the book at a single sitting--it's just that hard to put down.	2004-11-27
443585:US	49115690	R2AKTQSMY7OR0U	0312848714	300146663	The Last Guardian of Everness (Chronicles of Everness)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Compelling contemporary fantasy	For centuries, the Waylock family has guarded the doorway between the world of dreams and our own mundane world. Galen Waylock, the young heir to the wardens, receives a prophetic dream from the founder of their family--calling for him to come to the end of the world and visit. Despite his grandfather's orders, Galen responds, sets across a dreamscape and into danger. Because the forces of darkness are readying their assault, planning to carry all before them. Where once the Wardens were a huge host, now there remain only two--an old man and an impetuous youth who is all to easy to trick into a trap.<br /><br />Three people, Raven, his wife Wendy (who once knew how to fly), and Galen's crippled father Peter are all that remains holding the ancient barrier of Everness against plague, death, seelies, and the morning star himself. Great weapons were made for Everness's defenses, but Peter refused the knowledge and Raven and Wendy know even less.<br /><br />Author John C. Wright combines Arthurian legend; Celtic, Greek, and Christian mythology; with fairy tales and Freemasonic rumors to create a fascinating and compelling contemporary fantasy. None of the characters is perfect--Galen is impetuous, Peter bitter, Wendy flighty, and Raven willing to compromise on what is too important. Similarly, many of the characters of darkness have their own appeal--evil is rarely unadorned ugliness.<br /><br />Wright's strong writing, story-telling, and world-building make THE LAST GUARDIAN OF EVERNESS a book that's hard to put down.	2004-11-27
443913:US	49115690	R1I33LQGVQLI5P	0373692021	1303230	When He Was Bad...: Xmas/New Year	Books	5	0	2	N	N	So bad he's good	Psychologist Sara Davenport has built her career helping women escape from the 'bad-boy trap.' She saw, first-hand, the costs of falling for that hint of danger, that adrenaline rush, and that promise that would never be fulfilled--and swore she'd never even be tempted. When her publicist gets her a spot on shock-jock Nick Chandler's radio show (slotted between his discussions of sports and strippers), she resists--until her publicist reminds her that part of the audience is her exact target, women who have fallen for the bad-boy mystique. Because Nick Chandler is the ultimate bad-boy.<br /><br />When the sexy Ph.D. walks into his show--and lets him know exactly what she thinks about him--Nick can't help being intrigued. But she blows him off when he suggests dinner. When she calls later about a business proposition, Nick has another proposition on his mind. Sara had intended to use Nick for research, but she can't deny that Nick represents real temptation to her. If she falls for it, though, it will mean being completely discredited in her profession--and sending exactly the wrong signal to all those women who look to her to find the strength to escape from their intolerable relationships.<br /><br />Nick has more on the ball than Sara had given him credit for, and the attraction soon escalates well beyond the bad-boy myth. But that won't help Sara if anyone finds out. She's playing with fire and she can't stop even though she knows she'll be the one left with the burns.<br /><br />Author Jane Sullivan (who also writes as Jane Graves) writes a warm and sexy story. With her broken upbringing, Sara is a powerfully sympathetic heroine. Nick combines the attraction of the bad-boy with a great physical build and super-intelligence. The sparks that fly between the two of them can't be denied--even though both of them know better.	2004-11-26
444833:US	49115690	R3HCS6RIXZB3EL	0671318284	72830897	Rats, Bats & Vats	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Combines tongue-in-cheek space opera and revolution	Alien maggots have invaded the human-inhabited planet of Harmony and Reason (HAR), gradually overrunning the planet despite the efforts of the military--aided by cybernetically enhanced 'rats' and 'bats.' Another alien race sells humans military technology and advice, but that advice too-often seems either wrong or incomplete. At any rate, the humans are losing and the maggots have just snatched another significant chunk of territory, leaving a small group of soliders (one human along with small groups of rats and bats) behind the new expanded force field that prevents human counter-attack.<br /><br />Together with his heavy-drinking rats and his revolutionary bats, human Chip Connolly must stay alive in the face of literally millions of maggot soldiers and workers. Worse, the hive's 'group mind' means that even if they kill everyone who sees them, the bugs always know where they are hiding.<br /><br />Things only seem to get worse when Chip and the others have to rescue aristocratic Ginny Shaw, the heiress to the human colony's greatest fortune and her Korozhet tutor. The young woman at least has the virtue of being attractive (although Chip knows perfectly well what happens to vat-born clones who aspire above their stations and develop interests in shareholders) but the Korozhet is nothing but trouble--and only Chip seems bothered by this. Against the wishes of its generals, part of the human army watches the heroes as they attempt to survive but, as long as the force field remains intact, they are helpless to intervein. Even if they could, the humans have lost every battle they've fought.<br /><br />Authors Eric Flint and Dave Freer combine in a light-hearted look at the military, space-opera, and revolution. The story maintains a perfect balance between tongue-in-cheek and solid adventure, involving the reader in the characters at the same time as it keeps us smiling. The plight of the cybernetic rats and bats, as well as that of the slave-like clone humans (vats) adds a very mild political message to the light-hearted novel.mans (vats) adds a very mild political message to the light-hearted novel. <br />	2004-11-25
445969:US	49115690	R3EGUA4ZI3UTF5	0345449169	638089738	A Kiss of Fate (Putney, Mary Jo)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Magic, romance, and Bonnie Prince Charlie--oh, my	Guardians are charged with protecting the people, reducing the damages from war, and following the orders of their council. Although Gwynne Owens is a guardian, she lacks the magic that makes guardians so powerful and is surprised when first her late father's lord and then (after his death), powerful weather-guardian Duncan Macrae seek her hand in marriage. Although her body and soul respond to Duncan's magnetic touch, she feels an air of a horrible fate when he kisses her. Their relationship will be surrounded by suffering, death. Still, when the guardian council begs her to marry Duncan, Gwynne agrees.<br /><br />The two arrive in Scotland just as Bonnie Prince Charlie's rebellion begins. Although Duncan has sworn the guardian oath, he's a loyal Scot. The Hanovers are horrible kings--and their rule over Scotland has been heavy-handed at best. Would it be so horrible to have a Stuart king in Scotland again? Despite the guardian council decision to support Hanover, Duncan's heart inclines to Charles Stuart--and his weather-magic just might provide the difference in the rising.<br /><br />Although their passionate love for one another draws them together, their political differences push Duncan and Gwynne apart. Gywnne's vision is of death, rivers of blood, complete destruction if the Stuart cause is victorious while Duncan sees only the possibility of his nation ruled again by its hereditary kings. The disagreement leads Gwynne to consider an ultimate betrayal--one that will shatter their love and marriage. Can love possibly triumph when the world races into the madness of war and when both sides are so completely unattractive?<br /><br />Author Mary Jo Putney adds paranormal elements to her strong historical voice in an intriguing tale of romance in one of the most horrible and darkly romantic periods of Britain's past. Her exploration of the growth of Gwynne's 'enchantress' magic and of the guardian system deepens the appeal of a well-written historical.	2004-11-24
447866:US	49115690	R2CGE5BQDRVCM1	0821777505	989810939	Ghost Of A Chance (Zebra Debut)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Breaks all the rules--and boy does it work. Very funny	Kiely Davlin really should be going to New York casting cattle calls, but when her friend Lida Rose is hired to direct a remake of a 100-year-old melodrama, Lida Rose cons Kiely into helping--both as an actress and as choreographer. Kiely knows that Lida Rose has matchmaking plans, but Lida Rose always has matchmaking plans and there's no way Kiely is moving back to Dallas permanently. Still, Lida Rose needs a favor and a paying job sounds like a great way to spend the summer.<br /><br />Once in Dallas, Kiely discovers that Lida Rose wasn't kidding about the sexy men on the stage--all of them apparently straight. The sexiest of them all is Rafe Montez--who plays the villain and who just might have been typecast--what, exactly, is he doing all that snooping for? Did I say the sexiest? Well, that doesn't include the ghost of the former villain, shot dead in the theater on opening night half a century before, the last time the play was run. That ghost seems interested in Kiely, which would be nice if he wasn't quite so dead--and he didn't need to warn her so often that something terrible was about to happen.<br /><br />Author Flo Fitzpatrick combines a strong chick-lit and humor feel with paranormal elements and romance to delive a strong story. Her writing kept me smiling as Kiely stumbled from misadventure to misadventure, the play got in worse and worse trouble, and interfering owners, her friend Lida Rose, and curious newspaper reporters glommed onto the so-called curse the play labors under. Fitzpatrick clearly knows and loves the theater and dance, and these elements add richness and texture to the novel.<br /><br />GHOST OF A CHANCE was a surprisingly mature novel for a first-time novelist. Fitzpatrick doesn't mind breaking the rules (how many times are authors told to stay away from the theater, to keep the hero and heroine on the page at all times, and to definitely ensure that the heroine doesn't do evil things like drink?), but her rulebreaking adds up to a really superior novel. Well done--I'll look forward to reading her next book.up to a really superior novel. Well done--I'll look forward to reading her next book.	2004-11-22
449163:US	49115690	R28PLYQDHY34AH	0373766440	586713889	High-Stakes Passion (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great mix of steamy passion and emotional growth	After a bull-riding accident, injurred rodeo cowboy Mark Malone, the 'Lone Cowboy' goes to ground refusing to talk to any reporter, finding comfort in the bottle. Aubrey Tyson stands to win her dream job at her newspaper if she can get the story no one else can get. Going undercover as the ranch housekeeper, she plans to get close to Mark, learn his secrets, and write the killer story of her life. Because Mark had always been her hero--ever since he'd rescued her from abusive young men years before. Mark has forgotten that incident, but Aubrey will never forget it.<br /><br />Drink and anger at the world, as well as a deep distrust for all women have transformed Mark from the cowboy hero to someone darker, more dangerous. Still, Aubrey's heart goes out to him. She, of all people, understands the fear, self-loathing, and self-destructive tendencies that Mark is going through. In a poker game, she has a chance to reveal her secret and ask for the interview, but instead, raises the stakes further, demanding that Mark give up drinking and deal with his injuries. But for Aubrey, the reformed Mark is even more dangerous than the drinking one--and the stakes aren't just money or even her body--because she's falling in love with a cowboy who swears he'll never have a relationship, never want children, never trust a woman.<br /><br />Author Juliet Burns combines steamy lovemaking and strong emotional conflict in her compelling debut novel. Aubrey's undercover reporter and Mark's drinking provide a new twist to the much-loved rancher/housekeeper plot hook. With his deep issues of betrayal, Aubrey's secret profession leads inevitably toward a powerful black moment.<br /><br />I look forward to seeing more books by this talented writer.	2004-11-21
449580:US	49115690	RPCR6OKNZLD2G	0380978695	910390471	This Old Souse: A Bed-and-Breakfast Mystery (Bed-and-Breakfast Mysteries)	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Didn't quite click for me	When her cousin mentions an old house, B&Bmanager Judith McMonigle quickly becomes obsessed, interviewing the milkman, the deliveryman, and just about everyone else in the neighborhood. It turns out that the house is inhabited, but virtually no one ever sees the inhabitants. While snooping around Judith leaves her car for a few minutes--and comes back to find a body in her trunk. As an official suspect, she feels obligated to continue her investigation, finally breaking into the house in the middle of the night.<br /><br />THIS OLD SOUSE never quite takes off. Unsympathetic characters and excessive reliance on coincidence repeatedly jar the reader out of the story. Author Mary Daheim relies on reader loyalty to a long-established series for momentum to carry the story forward rather than on plotting or characterization. Although it was well-enough written to persuade me to read to the end, I just never got into this one.<br /><br />I very much enjoyed the earlier Daheim story I read. I hope THIS OLD SOUSE is an exception. For me, at least, this one didn't click.	2004-11-21
450263:US	49115690	R1DU9KIFFQKBVA	0385338252	453044037	The Immortal Highlander	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Moral issues and cop-out ending weaken well-written story	Adam Black has been a prince of the fairies, the Tuatha De Danaan, for thousands of years but now he's gone too far. Rather than follow the commands of his Queen, he opposed her publicly--and for that she punishes him by transforming him into a mere human--and worse, a human that no one else can see. No one, that is, except one of the rare, almost mythical seelie seers.<br /><br />Law Student Gabrielle O'Callaghan has lived her entire life with one fundamental commandment--no matter what the fairies do, never let them know you see them. Because only a seer can view the fair people--and the fairy hunters will chase down and murder any seers they find. Seeing fairies has eliminated most of her relationships, cost her a chance at a decent job, and leaves her unable to make permanent attachments. But when she walks into one particular fairy, a fairy prince by appearances, she blows it. And Adam Black, the fairy ruled most dangerous in that book passed down by her family for hundreds of years, is onto her secret.<br /><br />When Gabrielle and Adam discover that someone in fairie is has unleashed the hunters from the unseelie court, Adam knows he must get in touch with his Queen before she is attacked--even though that might mean his own elimination. But that means spending time with Gabrielle--and even a fairy can only stand so much. Gabrielle's fear is soon mixed with lust--but no relationship between a mortal and a soulless fairy is possible--is it?<br /><br />Author Karen Marie Moning knows that her readers want heroes that are larger than life and a fairy prince--who also happens to be a Highlander smith and warrior certainly fits the bill. Especially since he is able to give his lady expensive sportscars, diamonds, and lovemaking well beyond the proportions of his oversized body. Add a bit of adventure and danger, some getting reacquainted with the characters from earlier Highlander stories, and you have a pretty good story.<br /><br />Still, there are some issues. Although Gabrielle is studying to be a lawyer, she seemed to have no particular objection to taking the BMW, dress, or diamonds that Adam simply stole (the fact that he used magic doesn't pay the bills). Also, I found the solution to the fundamental differences between a soulless fairy and a mortal woman to be, uh, cheating (and just maybe a sacrifice for the point of being a sacrifice). Moning had a chance to really push the envelope here and get creative, but she took the easy way out.<br /><br />There's a lot to like about a hunky dominating alpha fairy who can deliver a girl's every desire. Moning fans are certain to enjoy THE IMMORTAL HIGHLANDER. If it isn't quite what it could be, that certainly doesn't mean it isn't worth the read.ome issues. Although Gabrielle is studying to be a lawyer, she seemed to have no particular objection to taking the BMW, dress, or diamonds that Adam simply stole (the fact that he used magic doesn't pay the bills). Also, I found the solution to the fundamental differences between a soulless fairy and a mortal woman to be, uh, cheating (and just maybe a sacrifice for the point of being a sacrifice). Moning had a chance to really push the envelope here and get creative, but she took the easy way out.  <br /> <br />There's a lot to like about a hunky dominating alpha fairy who can deliver a girl's every desire. Moning fans are certain to enjoy THE IMMORTAL HIGHLANDER. If it isn't quite what it could be, that certainly doesn't mean it isn't worth the read.	2004-11-20
450426:US	49115690	R2R0Q6GTJ7DE5	0743488466	498081448	The Rats, the Bats & the Ugly (Rats, Bats & Vats)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Welcome counter to ultra-right-wing SF	A small group of rats, bats, a single vat-born soldier, and a wealthy civilian woman have defeated an invading Magh army, but the Magh are far from mankind's only enemy. Mankind's putative ally, the Korozhet, now control most of the army's high-ranking officers as well as the rats and bats. The first thing they command is that those responsible for the Magh defeat by arrested and eliminated. For wealthy heiress, Virginia (Ginny) Shaw, the result may be even worse. She can't be disposed of easily--she does control more than a third of the shares of the colony--but she is subject to Korozhet mind control. It doesn't take humankind's traitors long to separate her from her lover, vat-born Chip Connolly, and drug her to the point where she can barely recognize herself. Once she has signed away her controls, she will be completely disposable.<br /><br />A combination of smart lawyers, scientists, and logic-splitting rats and bats who can somehow believe that the Korozhet are both wonderfully kind and simultaneously horrible murderers, are all that stands between the colony and its destruction. Depending on lawyers is notoriously dangerous, especially since some of the best lawyers are on the other side, but Chip, the other soldiers who disobeyed headquarters commands, and the other humans involved have little choice.<br /><br />Authors Eric Flint and Dave Freer combine in an amusing takeoff on old-fashioned space opera. The rats and bats are charming with their Shakespearian and Irish accents, but have nasty enough habits to make them interesting (if they aren't fed every four hours, they just may make you their meal). As a welcome contrast to much military SF, the story doesn't preach an ultra-conservative anti-environmentalist message.<br /><br />THE RATS, THE BATS, & THE UGLY is an enjoyable, if lightweight adventure story. Freer and Flint are capable writers and the story sucks you in and keeps you reading.	2004-11-20
450436:US	49115690	R2QRRCTRAJ6WSR	0060584009	77217173	Metro Girl (Alex Barnaby Series #1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Well-designed with plenty of action	Alexandra \\"Barney\\" Barnaby's life is turned upside down when her always-in-trouble little brother, Bill, disappears. Alex goes to Miami to look for him, only to discover his apartment trashed and a scary character searching for him--and not averse to using violence. Alexandra's search leads her to the Marina and the corporate yacht where Bill worked. There's been a murder, and another boat is missing--a sixty-five-foot Hatteras belonging to NASCAR driver and celebrity Sam Hooker.<br /><br />Naturally Sam and Alex must join forces. The hung leads them on a trail down to the Keys and ultimately to Cuban waters, where a lost shipment of Castro's gold has been lost--along with a deadly chemical weapon that some very nasty characters would like to find. Along the way they must dodge hitmen, but they have some engaging allies--like the ladies from the cigar factory and the fruit stand, and some charming and brave gay guys.<br /><br />I had mixed feelings when I started this book. I was hoping for something similar to Evanovich's acclaimed Stephanie Plum series, but I didn't immediately find the characters as engaging or the writing as funny. But the farther along I got, the more I got sucked in. It's a different kind of story than I'm used to from this author--more of a pure romantic suspense with an intricate, well-designed plot and plenty of action	2004-11-20
450522:US	49115690	R2OLOWD48CLLED	0312319274	574985833	The Sterling Inheritance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Strong writing and interesting mother/son relationship	It's an ordinary missing person case--a woman reported her husband missing--and private detective Jason Wilder could have solved it in his sleep. But when the missing man tries to shoot him, complains that 'they' were going to kill him, and then turns up to be the lead suspect in a murder case, Wilder figures that this might be more than a run-of-the-mill missing person case after all.<br /><br />Working with the other members of the Midnight Investigative Agency (headed by his mother), Wilder uncovers hints of attempted arson, booby-traps, the Russian mafia, and a beautiful woman who just might be the real killer after all.<br /><br />Author Michael Silverling's strong writing kept me involved with the plot. The hint of romance and strange relationship between Wilder and his mother added to the character and deepened the mystery plot. I thought there were a few holes in the mystery (the biggest being the motive for the first murder victim), and it was a bit too easy to guess the killer's identity, but the overall this was a fully enjoyable read.	2004-11-20
457004:US	49115690	R3K44NJUNE3MSK	0553578693	89887514	The Next Accident: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It'll keep you up at night	When FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy's daughter suffers a one-car, drunk-driving accident and remains in a coma, it at first seems an unfortunate tragedy. But when she dies months later, her death becomes only the first in many horrible losses for Pierce. His ex-wife is viciously butchered. His father is kidnapped from his nursing home.<br /><br />Worst of all, Pierce himself has been framed for his ex-wife's murder. It takes the combined efforts of Pierce, his private-eye sort-of girlfriend Rainie Conner and his criminology-student daughter to defeat a villain who preys on his victim's minds just before he kills them. He's a villain so cruel he will stop at nothing until he reaches his ultimate goal--Pierce's utter ruin. He plans to take away from Pierce everything Pierce loves--just as the agent did to him.<br /><br />Lisa Gardner is in top form with this delicious thriller and the multi-faceted romance between Pierce and Rainie. It's a book that keeps you up at night--even if you're a little bit afraid to read it after dark.	2004-11-14
457370:US	49115690	R2C0PVOBCUIK6E	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nicely done adventure/satire	Moist Van Lipwig is a con-man, pure and simple. And now he's been caught, sentenced to die, and scammed on his escape attempt. When Lord Vetinari, tyrant of Ankh-Morpork, offers him a job as head of the postal service, he thinks he's way ahead--he'll be out of town before Vetinari knows what hit him. But Vetinari is wise to the ways of con-men and his golem brings Lipwig back--to the decayed splendor of the post office.<br /><br />Once, the post office was the center of commerce, with hundreds of employees, millions of deliveries, and a beautiful building. Now, that building is filled with undelivered mail--and two crazed postal employees. All of which would be bad enough. But, as Lipwig soon finds, Vetinari is using him as cat's paw in a battle against the corrupt 'clacks,' or semaphore sytem that crosses the continent.<br /><br />Lipwig is good enough at the confidence game, but something smacking of a real job is not part of his makeup--and getting killed by the clack assassins doesn't sound like fun, either. Still, he's got to do something, and delivering a single piece of mail starts an avalanch that leads in unpredictable directions.<br /><br />Author Terry Pratchett (see more BooksForABuck.com reviews of novels by Pratchett) keeps his tongue firmly planted in his cheek as he combines fantasy, adventure, and a probing look at the recent telecommunications meltdown. Pratchett does a wonderful job depicting a con-man and making him confront the damage his tricks caused--and making him sympathetic. His adventures may be strange and improbable, but they also have a distinct logic about them.<br /><br />I'm happy to recommend GOING POSTAL. It's a fun, fast read with just enough bite to make the reader think.	2004-11-13
458381:US	49115690	R2AJ5JVPPYCB49	1569473560	836861620	The Dragon Man (Inspector Challis Mysteries)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good sense of Australia, but too much coincidence	When a woman is abducted from the side of the road, Detective Inspector Hal Challis is called in. Another woman, a hitchhiker on the same highway, had recently been found murdered and Challis suspects a serial killer may be on the prowl. But the man is being careful, using gloves, condoms, and being careful to use no physical evidence behind him. Challis has little to go on, and a police force that seems filled with problems.<br /><br />Although the murder(s) occupy much of Challis's time, everyday police work continues. A pair of firebugs who also burglarize homes becomes part of the plot as does a convicted sex offender who just might be the man they're looking for.<br /><br />Author Garry Disher does a fine job setting the scene--in the Peninsula area of Australia, near Melbourne. Girls talk back to their mothers, female cops take surfing lessons and lust after their teenaged surfing instructor, a police Sergeant's marriage crumbles under the pressure of the police job, and a couple of cops decide to become more aggressive, looking at everyone as a criminal who just needs to be pushed to find the crime. His writing is smooth and manages just enough of the Australian dialect to have an exotic appeal to the non-Australian reader without being overwhelming.<br /><br />The mystery, however, was a bit disjointed. The eventual resolution came about through multiple incredible coincidences rather than through police work, which weakened the story for me. Real-world policing does rely on luck and coincidence, but Disher carried things too far. Oddly, Hal Challis, the primary protagonist, was the least interesting of the major characters. Perhaps Disher would do better having surfer Pam Murphy as the protagonist of his next novel.	2004-11-12
460702:US	49115690	R1SW2YBUGGC5X8	0974029092	492528729	1: Silverlance	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Promising fantasy adventure by new author	When a new star appears, satyr Byron Thorn sets out to follow it--partly because of its compelling pull, and partly because of the legend of Silverlance. Silverlance had been king of the lands, but had vanished so long ago that he had faded into legend. One of those legends, though, held that the new star would herald a new age, and Silverlance's return. Byron gathers allies as he pursues his quest, but faces powerful enemies as well--including a centaur who would stop at nothing to stop Byron from achieving his quest.<br /><br />Author Peter Thomas Crowell combines classical myths with high-fantasy for an entertaining story. Targeted at the young adult market, but with cross-over appeal to adult fantasy readers, Silverlance combines adventure with the realities of danger and loss.<br /><br />SILVERLANCE is Crowell's first novel and it could use a bit more work in characterization, making the story fully his own. Still, it is an entertaining read. I'll look forward to seeing how Crowell's career develops--SILVERLANCE is certainly a promising start.	2004-11-10
463801:US	49115690	R3OS8FX38QCUCO	0345447581	112604634	Marque and Reprisal	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Satisfying space opera action	Kylara Vatta isn't sure she's cut out for the boring life of a space trader--the role her super-rich merchant family slotted her into. But when interstellar communications are cut, and the entire Vatta family is attacked and nearly eliminated, Kylara finds that the trading life can be anything but boring. Somehow, she's got to stay alive, get her ship loaded when the insurance companies refuse to insure anything Vatta, get some defenses up on her slow ship, and decide what to do. When her great-aunt sends Kylara's sexy cousin to help, Kylara isn't sure whether she's moving ahead, or falling behind. But the strangest thing is the official letter of Marque--authorizing her to go after her planet's enemies--but in a superslow and defenseless merchant-ship?<br /><br />Author Elizabeth Moon brings back fond memories of the glory days of space opera. Two young women, both considered failures by their family, are now all that stands between their family and ruin (that is, the two of them plus some highly potent fruitcakes).<br /><br />MARQUE AND REPRISAL doesn't have the depth of character or really complex plotting as do some of Moon's fantasy, but if you're looking for solid space-opera adventure, you won't be disappointed.	2004-11-07
466161:US	49115690	R3POSVRA6N58RQ	0345458419	219693326	Light My Fire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sizzling relationship and clever solutions	Criminal defense attorney Ethan Millner, despised by every cop in Tolosa, Texas, because he defends scum and gets them off, is starting to despise himself. In a moment of self-loathing after he helped a guilty rapist walk, Ethan nearly crashes his sports car and finds himself before a judge, sentenced to community service: hours and hours of Crimewatch duty. As if it couldn't get worse, his supervisor is curvaceous Neighborhood Watch captain Sandy DeMarco--whose three cop brothers hate him more than anyone. She's not too fond of him, either.<br /><br />The attraction sizzles for these two immediately. But before anything can develop, the unthinkable happens--they stumble upon Sandy's neighbor, beaten to death. And Sandy's employee from the flower shop she owns is quickly fingered for the murder. Sandy knows Josh couldn't kill anyone, despite his checkered past. So she convinces Ethan to take the case pro bono--something that puts Ethan at odds with his father and partner, who cares only for money and winning every case.<br /><br />Sandy, of course, quickly begins to see Ethan is not the monster she thought he was, even as Ethan gradually discovers his conscience. The two embark on what looks like an impossible mission--to find the real murderer and get Josh off.<br /><br />Sandy's story is a great way to finish off the DeMarco family. She felt like a real person to me, with flaws and foibles, but firm convictions and a big heart. She is the perfect foil for Ethan, who anyone can see needs for someone to believe in his goodness and love him. Their physical relationship sizzles (of course! This is Jane Graves) and the pacing grabs the reader by the hair and drags her through a story that's a dazzling funhouse of mirrors, where nothing is as it seems. And the ultimate solution is particularly clever, one where the reader knocks herself up the side of the head and says, \\"Dang, why didn't I see that coming?\\" Can't wait to see what comes next from this author.	2004-11-05
466513:US	49115690	RZUX5U141PTDK	0060562366	819999848	California Girl: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vividly drawn characters and setting	In 1960s Southern California, Janelle Vonn is a girl who seems to be overcoming a tragic past. Sexually abused, drug-addicted, she rose above those problems to become a beauty queen, then a police informant. Alas, the beautiful woman is found in an abandoned orange packing house, raped and decapitated.<br /><br />Janelle's life and those of her family members are inextricably bound to another family, the Beckers. Her death will come to affect each of them in a profound way. Nick is the young homicide detective given his first murder. Many are out to prove he's not up to the task of finding Janelle's killer. Andy is the ambitious reporter determined to uncover the truth and get the scoop, which puts him in a delicate situation with his cop brother. David is the minister who once salvaged Janelle's life, pulling her away from drugs and abuse. He has secrets that, if exposed, might ruin his reputation, his church and his family. Then there are the Becker parents, rabid John Birchers, who become unwitting pawns as an FBI agent with an axe to grind uses Janelle's murder to manipulate guilty and innocent alike.<br /><br />As is to be expected in a T. Jefferson Parker novel, the characters are drawn to perfection and the setting comes to live so vividly that, as someone who remembers the sixties, I found myself recalling things from that era that aren't even in the book. The story was lively, and each time I thought I knew what was going on, the plot twisted again.<br /><br />If I have one complaint, it's that a lot of real, famous people flitted in and out of the book for no real reason. The Becker parents were friends with Richard Nixon; Janelle hung out with Timothy Leary; one of the brothers had a fight with Charles Manson. The parade of famous characters started to feel like it should have been in Forrest Gump. And there were a few other wink-wink-nod-nod predictions about the \\"future\\" that tended to pull me out of the story. But these are miniscule concerns. I still ignored work, TV, and sleep to finish this one.I still ignored work, TV, and sleep to finish this one.	2004-11-05
467034:US	49115690	R34Y136ZAK3AW6	0345456548	53099443	Shoulder the Sky : A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good description of the horrors of war	World War I has broken out despite the efforts of the 'peacemaker' to prevent it, but the peacemaker has not given up. If only England can be persuaded to abandon the horrible struggle, peace, in the form of German control over Europe and British control over the rest of the world, can be achieved.<br /><br />From the time the peacemaker killed their parents, siblings Joseph, Judith, and Matthew Reavley have tried to find his identity and undo his plans. Joseph is an army chaplain, serving in the trenches in Flanders. The daily horrors of war are intensified by German gas attacks, but a real crisis comes when a hot-shot journalist pushes investigation of what just might be a self-inflicted wound. Tensions run high--until Joseph finds the journalist's body. The evidence points to murder, rather than an accident of warfare. Joseph hated the journalist, but this ethics compell him to investigate--an investigation that leads back toward the peacemaker.<br /><br />Author Anne Perry does an excellent job portraying the horrors of war and the brothership of the men and women who fought. As Joseph experiences the slaughter of Flanders field, and the senseless waste of Galopoli, Perry manages to convey his growing doubts and moral uncertainty about his cause.<br /><br />SHOULDER THE SKY is part of a series, beginning with the interesting NO GRAVES AS YET. For me, the introduction of the horrors of one of mankind's most senselessly destructive wars makes SHOULDER even stronger than the earlier NO GRAVES. One thought--I think the story would be deepened if the peacemaker were given a bit more dimension. People seeking to save millions of lives, even at the price of surrender, are not necessarilly evil, nor even wrong. By making the badguy sympathetic, Perry could really elevate the emotional impact of her story.	2004-11-04
472264:US	49115690	R26WUG6V0LZRY3	0786932570	338655174	Amber and Ashes, Vol. 1: The Dark Disciple (Dragonlance) (v. 1)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Superior Dragonlance adventure	The death-god is frustrated. His legions of zombies and walking skeletons are stupid, stinky, and have a nasty tendency to fall apart when he needs them most. Now that the gods have returned, he decides it's time for a new approach--an approach that will involve beautiful, young disciples with good skin and lively habits. But first, he needs a prophet and beautiful Mina is a great choice--she's already worked for a god but is currently unemployed due to her god's death. Between the two of them, death and Mina can create some powerful magic.<br /><br />When his brother is taken by the death-god, given eternal life--sort of--the monk Rhys abandons his worship of Majere to seek the cause of his brother's problems--and an explanation for why he poisoned the entire monastary. He is quickly adopted by the sea goddess--who has plans of her own, but who just might have a use for a monk and who is concerned about the new role that death seems to be playing. Still, the sea goddess is only willing to do so much, and death has a hold even over her. Rhys has his work cut out for him, and he's not even sure what he wants to do about it.<br /><br />Author Margaret Weis digs deep into the DragonLance universe to write a fascinating story of gods, mortals, and the strange relationships between them. The human characters, Mina and Rhys, along with the death-god who has discovered a taste for life, drive the story forward. Rhys, in particular, is fully realized--human, given enough doubts about himself to be interesting, uncertainties about his mission to allow Weis to put him in fascinating dilemmas, and well enough trained that he actually has a chance even when he faces gods and the walking dead. His relationship with the sea goddess--one of both respect and profound distrust--makes for enjoyable reading.<br /><br />Weis is a talented writer whose prose draws the reader in. I had a ton of work to get done and really didn't have time to read this story, but I couldn't stop and finally decided to give myself half a day of pure enjoyment. AMBER AND ASHES is a good one.and finally decided to give myself half a day of pure enjoyment. AMBER AND ASHES is a good one.  <br />	2004-10-30
472692:US	49115690	R27OZ1TYQN2WP6	0425197484	929904269	Undead and Unemployed (Queen Betsy, Book 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Almost (but not quite) as good as the first one	Betsy (Elizabeth) Taylor is now queen of the dead, but that hasn't solved her problems. Her house is overrun with termites, she doesn't have a job, she can't trust her sometimes-boyfriend, and now she learns that someone is 'staking' vampires. She's convinced that her life has taken a turn for the better when she gets a night-shift job selling shoes at Macy's but even that dream job doesn't make her other problems go away (and, even with the employee discount, she's spending so much on shoes for herself that she barely comes out ahead).<br /><br />Betsy might not be the brightest bulb in the undead world, but she recognizes manipulation when she sees it--the only problem is, everyone seems to be manipulating her and she can't tell who is doing it for her own good. When she breaks up a team of human vampire slayers, she gets another boy with a crush--and another chance to send Sinclair into a jealous rage.<br /><br />Fans of UNDEAD AND UNWED will be happy to see Queen Betsy back in action--fighting for fashion, worrying about her evil stepmother, trying to do her part in paying the bills, and trying to resolve the mixture of resentment and pure desire she feels toward Sinclair. There are plenty of funny moments in this story and the not-so-bright but well-meaning vampire who refuses to let go of her human friends and family makes a charming character. UNDEAD AND UNEMPLOYED doesn't quite have the freshness and joy of the first book in the series, but it is an enjoyable addition.	2004-10-30
478276:US	49115690	R40MNHH96POGT	0756402182	11443006	A Flame in Hali  (The Clingfire, Book 3)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Welcome addition to strong series	King Carolin Hastur is revolutionizing Darkover through his compact--the agreement that every weapon be banned if it does not put its user at equal risk. The magical weapons that have dominated Darkover for generations, since the times of chaos at least, would be banned and magic would become limited to healing, to communications. Together with his friend and ally, Varzil Ridenow, he has spread the message and gotten agreement, but much of Darkover sees only what they lose by signing the compact.<br /><br />A generation before, the Hastur king had destroyed the Deslucido family leaving only one man--and his sons alive. Now, Eduin Deslucido, who has already done so much to destroy Carolin's dreams, has an ally--a man trained in magic but now blessed or burdened with a goddess. Using this tool, Eduin hopes to destroy Varzil and then the last of the Hasturs, finally freeing himself of the curse that his father laid upon him.<br /><br />Author Deborah J. Ross continues the Darkover world of Marion Zimmer Bradley in a story that feels very true to the original. In this tale of powerful magic, ancient hatreds, strong egos, and great emotion, Bradley and Ross trace out Eduin's evolving plan as well as the life-journey of the one woman Eduin has ever loved--Dyannis Ridenow, sister of Varzil.<br /><br />Marion Zimmer Bradley's Darkover series is a powerful set of tales (I found THE FORBIDDEN TOWER to be among the best fantasy books ever). Although A FLAME IN HALI isn't up there with the very best of Darkover, it's a welcome addition to the hundred kingdom era of that troubled planet's history.	2004-10-25
479729:US	49115690	R2HCZQLBBY86Z1	0743488393	618108652	The Wizard of Karres	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Enjoyable sequel to one of the top SF books of the 1960s	Althought they have defeated the worm world and the pirates of the Agandar, Captain Pausert and his teenage sidekick, Goth, have more problems. For one thing, a tiny vatch is causing trouble--and Pausert's hooks offer no control over this vatch. For another, the Imperial Security Service has decided Pausert and his passengers are trouble. For a third thing, an ancient nanite plague has returned after centuries of quiet. The plague takes over bodies, controls minds, and seeks to dominate the galaxy--and all life on it. Pausert suspects that the nanites have taken control of at least some senior officials in the ISS--but that doesn't mean he can see any way to escape.<br /><br />Pausert, Goth, and various friends, family, agents, and their vatch-sidekick are hunted through the galaxy, attacked by both the ISS and by remnants of the Agandar pirates, forced to retreat to a circus ship, thrown into another time, and finally forced to confront the plague itself--after it had already seized control of much of the Empire. In the meantime, Pausert struggles with his klatha (magical) powers--seeking to understand the magic that the witches do, but that come so slowly to him.<br /><br />In THE WIZARD OF KARRES, authors Mercedes Lackey, Eric Flint, and Dave Freer combine to continue the story originally created by author James H. Schmitz in THE WITCHES OF KARRES. WITCHES is a wonderful story and WIZARD does its best to maintain the characters, pace of adventure, story-line, and world-building originally created by Schmitz.<br /><br />The result falls short of perfect. WIZARD doesn't offer the same level of space-opera adventure as WITCHES, nor, because the characters know one another, does it allow the same level of discovery that added so much to the first book. Still, fans of the original WITCHES (like me) will find a lot to enjoy in this sequel. Falling short of the truly wonderful WITCHES certainly doesn't mean that WIZARDS isn't an enjoyable treat.	2004-10-24
480205:US	49115690	RS0W4C4GTKPKP	0446610852	581545043	The Kissing Game	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cute story, could use some conflict	The Earl of Sunderland has been hiding on his country estates for years--since being driven out of London society by general disgust over his constant pranks. Now, though, his daughter, Allegra Nesbitt, is 18. It's time for her season, if the Earl, Oxie, is to provide for her after his death. Of course, a few gags while the family is in London are very much in order. Unfortunately for Allegra, the family's ill-fame has spread before it. Even though her father is an Earl, no invitations await them, no callers visit. It's a perfect disaster--except a chance meeting with the one man who can change everything--or create an even larger disaster.<br /><br />For three years, Armand Gauthier has been the mystery of London society. He's got money, charm, and a deadly hand with both weapon and cards, but he agrees to every rumor--he's son of the Prince, heir to the throne of France, a gambler, an adventurer, a pirate. For the first time in years, he questions his search when he sees Allegra. He can open society's doors to the beautiful debutante, but what will that do to the doors that he needs opened?<br /><br />Author Kasey Michaels tells a charming story of a joke-crazed man whose misplaced adventures put himself, his daughter, and the handsome adventurer in danger. Allegra is sexually innocent, but a lifetime with her jokester father leaves her vastly experienced in adventure and intrigue. She's the perfect match for Armand. Armand doesn't take long before he realizes that affection from a woman like Allegra will be a full-time job and his adventuring days are over. Still, there is the small matter of surviving the Earl.<br /><br />THE KISSING GAME is a cute regency-era historical with the charm and comedy of manners readers expect from the genre. I would have wished for a bit more conflict between Armand and Allegra--who never seem to have much reason not to end up together. The lack of conflict kept THE KISSING GAME from being quite as compelling as the strong writing and entertaining secondary characters should have made it.writing and entertaining secondary characters should have made it.	2004-10-23
482122:US	49115690	R39LTZI7OMB7YI	0595311598	164707296	Love and The Power	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Engaging adventure story	As a young man, John Forbes discovers the joys of crime. Starting as a thief, he graduates to drug dealing. His dream, however, never changes--he wants to build something big, something powerful--an invisible company worth billions that he can control. Together with a disgraced Danish industrialist, Erick Elgberg, Forbes works to see make his dream come true pumping funds from his drug business and other criminal and semi-criminal activities into the takeover of legitimate businesses. As they reach toward their goals, they become so large and powerful that even Britain's government becomes afraid to take on the invisible company.<br /><br />LOVE AND THE POWER tells the story of these two men--and their various loves--as they climb to the top of the world of business--both legal and extra-legal. A criminal life can be very attractive, with money, beautiful women, and the goal of power. But criminals always have to worry about the police--and about being betrayed by one of their own. With their increase in power, Elgberg and Forbes develop enemies. Even their own relationship is fraught with danger as each knows enough about the other to destroy them.<br /><br />Author J. Eidemak makes the world of financial dealings and mis-dealings interesting and entertaining. Both Forbes and Elgberg are interesting and sympathetic characters, despite their criminal activities. Their support for their fellow criminals, deep affection toward their families, and strangely consistent moral beliefs engage the reader. I did find the role of Paul, the jailed bank manager, a bit hard to swallow, but that didn't keep me from completely enjoying this page-turning adventure.	2004-10-21
482675:US	49115690	RA7H1HLQRAJI0	1590581164	109682021	Grave Undertaking (Buryin' Barry)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Really nice mystery with great characters	It's just an ordinary day for funeral director Barry Clayton--moving a casket from one location to another to meet the needs of the dead man's family. But when he comes across a skeleton that shouldn't be there--a skeleton with a bullet hole in the middle of its forehead, the ordinary becomes extraordinary. No funeral director put that body in the grave--and no suicide could cover himself so well. When Barry's girlfriend's picture is found in the skeleton's wallet, Susan, and even Barry himself, become suspects.<br /><br />The sheriff seems willing enough to push forward with the obvious case and Susan's lies and her confrontation with the dead man only days before he vanished, give her motive, opportunity and means. Barry needs to dust off his ex-police skills to get to the bottom of the mystery. It doesn't help, though, that Susan is lying to him as well as to the police. Could it be that she has more to hide than Barry is willing to accept?<br /><br />When he starts pulling on the case, Barry finds hints that something is rotten in the criminal justice system--that maybe the Sheriff has a good reason to point fingers anywhere but within his own department. Suspecting is one thing, though. Staying alive long enough to find out the truth becomes a major challenge.<br /><br />Author Mark de Castrique creates an engaging story with enough red herrings to fill the Atlantic and a charming romance betwen Barry and Susan. I especially enjoyed the way de Castrique deepened Barry's character through his evolving relationship with his Alzheimer-suffering father and with the community he somewhat reluctantly serves as funeral director. de Castrique's strong writing kept me glued to the pages. Good stuff.	2004-10-21
486476:US	49115690	RTTEVH6IKRD44	0312878834	796984793	Elegy for a Lost Star (The Symphony of Ages)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Good but lacks emotional punch of other books in series	After their great victories, Rhapsody, Ashe, Achmed, and Grunthor should be able to rest--but their enemies just won't stay beat, the evil f'nor fire demons continue to plot their escape, and now Rhapsody's pregnancy, with a dragon-child, threatens her survival. ELEGY FOR A LOST STAR combines four story lines--the amnesiac dragon, Anwyn seeks Rhapsody's name and destruction, the transformed sea-man, Faron, goes on a rampage when his magical card/scales are taken from him, Rhapsody and Ashe bicker about Ashe's plan to build a magical device--a Light Catcher--that just might end the entire world, and the Emperor-Elect Talquist of Sorbold plots his schemes to subvert the church and go on a wave of conquest.<br /><br />Fans of the wonderful Rhapsody series will be overjoyed to see their favorite characters back in action. But ELEGY is not on the same monumental, and emotional, scales as the earlier works. The dragon's quest seems strangely empty, the bickering between Rhapsody and Achmed seems more than a bit artificial--why don't these people talk, explain their positions, rather than simply take offense and say terrible things to each other? You'd think after spending fifteen hundred years together, they would do better. As for Faron, his motivations and decisions are hard to rationalize. Only Talquist makes a really interesting story--but Talquist is only on a few pages.<br /><br />All of this doesn't mean ELEGY is a bad book. It's an important connecting book, it does advance the story, and we do get to read author Elizabeth Haydon's wonderful writing. After the powerful and emotionally rich Rhapsody series, however, ELEGY is a bit of a let-down. I think the one thing it needs most is the vital emotional impact that each of the other stories held. Certainly Haydon tries for this with Rhapsody's troubled pregnancy and the evolving relationship between Ashe and his father, but for me, these fell short.<br /><br />Note: I meant to rate it 3 Stars but Amazon won't let me correct.	2004-10-18
486688:US	49115690	R1HK0ZPLJOQWGB	0765305631	296932566	Hawkes Harbor	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Strangely compelling story of growth and 'redemption?'	Jamie Sommers is a survivor. Raised by nuns after his mother's death, he served in the navy, fought sharks and pirates in the South Seas, fought just about anyone who got near him, abused drugs, and managed to scrape by in life. So, what could possibly cause this man to suffer a complete breakdown? Because that's what happened to Jamie--he awakens in a mental institution with a mixed bag of memories, a terrible fear of the coming of night, bullet wounds where the police shot him, and a strangely ambivalent feeling to Hawkes Harbor where he has spent the past several years.<br /><br />Author S. E. Hinton bounces around in time, from the mental institution, to the days Jamie spent with his friend Kell surviving the merchant marine, cocaine, and alcohol, finally leading to the dreadful confrontation that cost Jamie so much. But even the doctors in the mental institution, people who have seen so much, can't believe what really happened to Jamie, or the strange connection he shares with the man who rules Hawke's Harbor, the man Jamie refers to as IT.<br /><br />Hinton's compelling writing grips the reader, makes us savor the hints of disaster and appreciate the strange, but symbiotic relationship between Jamie and Kell, and then Jamie and Grenville. Both men struggle for their sanity and a form of redemption, find journeys that take them where they never thought they could go, and ultimately lead them to a sort of contentment that no one who knew Jamie's background (or Grenville's) could have imagined possible.<br /><br />This is a strange book, but it dragged me in and sucked me dry--I'm happy to recommend it.	2004-10-17
488576:US	49115690	R3EJK71SXUIGCI	0312317425	418514504	The Witch's Tongue (Charlie Moon Mysteries)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Witty and engaging mystery	Ute tribe investigator Charlie Moon is visiting his aunt when a woman bursts into her trailer with a strange story of dreams, King Kong, and her husband climbing a moonbeam. Charlie and a local cop look, but can't find any sign of the missing husband--but find themselves caught in a roadblock, chasing an Indian who thinks he can fly, and generally running into the kind of trouble that the tribe pays Charlie to help them avoid. Somehow, it's up to Charlie to get to the bottom of the mysteries of missing museum pieces, a missing husband, a strange fight between a cop and an Indian who can't quite fly but is happy to sue the tribe, and, before it's over, multiple murders. Unfortunately for him, he's got to do all the detecting while his love live gets tied up in knots.<br /><br />Author James D. Doss combines Native American mysticism, a rich dash of humor, a tall (7 foot), dark, and silent hero, and some confused but mostly likable criminals into a fast-reading story. Poor Charlie continues to have rotten luck with his women, great skill with his detecting, and questionable success with his ranch (although beef prices were up four cents).<br /><br />As with the other books in the Charlie Moon series, THE WITCH'S TONGUE is less about who did it than watching Charlie Moon go through the paces, astound those around him, and manage to come out ahead somehow (except on the little matter of love). At times the story got a bit silly, and I would have liked to see more of Aunt Daisy and her pitukupf, but that didn't keep me from getting completely hooked. Good stuff.	2004-10-15
489335:US	49115690	R29PROHISKLAU2	0373228058	726896135	Bounty Hunter Redemption: Code of the Cobra	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Non-stop action and thoughtful romance	Ex-cop Gavin Schuyler has hit bottom and plans on rebounding. Now out of prison, he's going to keep his nose clean, work hard at his new job as a bounty hunter, and definitely not even think about a relationship with his sexy parole officer. But Shelby Dorset keeps intruding into his life--making sure he's sticking with the straight and narrow, sure, but also causing a powerful distraction.<br /><br />When a man kills himself in Shelby's office and another tries to kidnap her, Gavin can't stand back and watch. Even though he knows he's asking for trouble, he can't let Shelby get hurt. And someone is trying to hurt Shelby badly--and won't stop until she's dead.<br /><br />Author Kara Lennox combines non-stop action and a truly thoughtful romance in this addition to the Code of the Cobra series. Gavin makes an intriguingly different hero. With his troubled past, he seems an unlikely mate for the straight-arrow Shelby. But Shelby needs someone to shake up her life, and Gavin definitely needs someone to settle down with. Of course, the fact that their working together just might get Gavin sent back to jail adds to the romantic tension.<br /><br />Fans of Lennox's First Strike Bounty Hunter stories already know they want this one. If you haven't discovered the Cobra yet, you need to. This is a good one.	2004-10-15
495055:US	49115690	R371Q5R4FS6MZQ	0399152024	113911653	Bait (Robards, Karen)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Taut suspense & steamy romance	Maddie Fitzgerald is about to land a 10-million-dollar dog food account for her fledgling St. Louis ad agency--if she can impress the support hose off one old lady with her presentation. Unfortunately, the night before the presentation, someone breaks into Maddie's hotel room and she becomes the target of a botched hit that puts her squarely in the middle of a string of victims--victims of a serial killer.<br /><br />On the case is FBI Special Agent Sam McCabe, whom the killer has been leading on a merry chase across the country, always a step behind, a few minutes too late to save a life. But Maddie survived, and she is his key. He knows the killer will be back to finish the job. His priority is to keep Maddie safe--and use her to catch the perp, in that order.<br /><br />But there's something Sam doesn't know about Maddie's past, a terrible secret she has kept from everyone. All she wants is for the FBI agents to leave her alone. She can take care of herself. But Sam becomes her shadow. And as the killer circles closer, Maddie finds herself grateful rather than resentful for his presence even as the truth threatens to take away everything she has worked so hard for--including her own life.<br /><br />Bait is the perfect blend of taut suspense and steamy romance, interspersed with moments of comic relief provided by a spoiled Pekingese chosen to be an advertising logo. Robards reveals just enough information to keep me turning pages and trying to guess Maddie's secrets. Lots of surprises, enough chase scenes and creepy, stalking snipers to keep any action junkie happy. This is my favorite of the half-dozen or so Robards books I've read.	2004-10-10
496326:US	49115690	RFQAN54SDWHBR	0688138233	558608723	Day of the Dead: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Strong finish after slow start	Retired Sheriff Brandon Walker gets a new lease on life when he's chosen to join an elite group of retired law enforcement personnel who investigate cold cases--and his current case is not only stone cold, but inconceivably brutal. More than thirty years ago, a local Indian teenager was found hacked to death, stuffed into a cooler and left on the side of the road. But there are plenty of leads, ignored by his own indifferent department.<br /><br />Soon Brandon and a young homicide detective discover alarming similarities between this ancient case and a more recent one. They soon come to realize a brutal serial killer has been in their midst for decades and the wrong man arrested for the new case. Their separate investigations lead them through a world of secretive and sometimes bewildering Native American customs and across the Mexican border, involving a respected charity, pillars of society, and even Brandon's own daughter.<br /><br />You aren't likely to meet a more chilling pair of psychopaths than the villains in DAY OF THE DEAD. The story coalesces in a tense and lethal chase scene that rivals any I've read.<br /><br />During the first half, the author makes so many side trips into various points of view and into the past that the story drags and is confusing at times. But pacing in the second half is much faster, rewarding the reader for being patient, and all of the plot strings pull together in a neat, if chilling, bow.	2004-10-08
498330:US	49115690	R1XZKCB6MTY1IY	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Nice vampire story--great characters and real humor	Betsy (Elizabeth) Taylor's day starts badly when she oversleeps, misses her bus, and gets laid off. But when her cat escapes and she's hit by a car and instantly killed, things turn downright ugly. She awakens in unstylish clothes, an undead in very bad makeup. Finishing the job the car started seems like a good idea but drowning, electrical shock, jumping off buildings, even walking into a church don't do the job. Betsy is stuck being undead whether she likes it or not. Of course the idea of drinking other people's blood--that's just icky.<br /><br />Not knowing the vampire rules, Betsy proceeds to break all of them--telling her family and friends she's back, not drinking blood for a while, answering her own phone when she's supposed to be dead. But when the other vampires find her, they aren't pleased and insist that she join their organization--or else. Betsy might not be the brightest bulb around, but she is self-centered and not one to be pushed. Somehow she intends to keep her independence, both from the cartoonish leader of the undead and from Eric Sinclair, the super-sexy leader of the opposition. And all this talk about her being Queen has simply got to be nonsense.<br /><br />Author Mary Janice Davidson combines a fascinating, self-absorbed, sassy, shoe-obsessed, but still wonderful protagonist with enough action-adventure to please the reader looking for a bit more. Sinclair is definitely one hot vampire, but Betsy's reaction to him--and unwillingness to simply fall for him--makes the story far more compelling than the usual instant attraction thing.<br /><br />Fans of paranormal romance or of vampire fiction will definitely want to grab this one. I'm looking forward to getting my hands on my next Mary Janice Davidson book. Well done.	2004-10-06
499406:US	49115690	RGCUDF1LSPMXU	0446528722	968422356	Horizon Storms: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #3	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Interesting space opera but serious 'middle book' problems	The war against the hydrogues continues to go badly--only the Ildiran suicide-ramming attack has had any effect at all--and the duplicity of the Klikiss robots is gradually becoming apparent, but the Chairman of the Hansa decides that he must have a victory--and unite the human population. When the Roamers refuse to deliver essential fuel, he authorizes a series of attacks on them, planning on pressuring them into rejoining the Hansa majority.<br /><br />The hydrogues appear to be winning the war, but ancient enemies, including the tree-forests of Theron, the powerful but chaotic star-dwelling faeros, and the strange conscious water-being, embedded in Jess Tamblyn, keep the hydrogues from spending more than token attention on humans and their humanoid allies, the Ildiran. Which is lucky for humanity--since both Ildiran and humans are launching their own civil wars.<br /><br />Author Kevin J. Anderson jumps from character to character, describing the war, the lucky technology finds, and the slimy-types who use the moment of humanity's greatest danger to pursue their personal goals.<br /><br />HORZION STORMS is the third in a huge series detailing the war, the multiple 'civilizations,' of the distant future, and the strange symbiotic relationships developing between human and Ildiran, human and water-creature, and human and tree. HORIZON does suffer from middle-book syndrome. There is a lot of setting up, a lot of angsting over choices, a lot of repeating what readers of earlier books already know, and not enough action and forward-moving plot.<br /><br />Fans of the series will want to grab HORIZON STORMS. This probably is not the place to start reading the series--the story just doesn't make sense without the earlier books. Also, I suspect that missing this one wouldn't dramatically reduce the reader's enjoyment of the next story--not enough happens. Still, fans of Space Opera SF will enjoy this one.	2004-10-05
500535:US	49115690	R1UB21OBR6N0K4	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting start to fabulous series	The great city of Ankh-Morpork has seen many tourists, but this one--Twoflower, from the mysterious counterweight continent, a continent reported to consist largely of gold--is different. His gullible appearance attracts an army of thieves but Twoflower is too innocent to even notice--and his walking luggage is dangerous enough to offer some protection. One of the men hoping to take advantage of Twoflower is Ankh-Morpork's worst mage. Rincewind knows only one spell. Unfortunately, he doesn't know what the spell will actually do if he uses it. When Twoflower pays Rincewind, in advance, to show him around the city, Rincewind decides to get out while he still can. Unfortunately, he's misjudged his timing. The Patrician wants Twoflower alive and decides to task Rincewind with the assignment. No one can escape the Patrician so Rincewind gets caught up in a series of inprobable adventures.<br /><br />THE COLOR OF MAGIC is the first in Terry Pratchett's Discworld series--and it shows. Pratchett hasn't quite decided whether Discworld is pure farce--with its counterparts for Robert E. Howard's Conan and Fritz Leiber's Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser and his choice of a purely cowardly and incapable wizzard for protagonist with the most frightening monster being a many-legged travelling trunk--or something unique and wonderful. Over time, Pratchett has developed Discworld to be a compelling universe of its own, with complex characters, interesting situations, but keeping its tongue-in-cheek attitude. COLOR is essential reading for a full understanding of Discworld and fans of the series (like me) won't want to miss it. Still, although COLOR is the first Discworld novel, I don't recommend you read it first. Read some of the later stories, get hooked, then pick up COLOR to see where it came from and to get more of the details on how, exactly, a disc-shaped world travels on the backs of four elephants--each of whom, in turn, stands on a single huge turtle swimming toward--well, that is the question, isn't it?at is the question, isn't it?	2004-10-04
501196:US	49115690	R2N0EG3WVE0YYV	0505525836	322684353	Tall, Dark & Hungry (Argeneau Vampires, Book 4)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Tall, Dark, and Tame	Beautiful college professor Terri Simpson comes to New York for two weeks to help her best friend (and cousin) get ready for her wedding. She's expecting late nights giggling, last minute shopping, and maybe a bit of mild flirtation with the sexy groomsmen. But her cousin has other ideas--not wanting to be separated from her fiance, she puts Terri up with the groom's brother--Bastien. And Terri can't help notice the chemistry that flows between the sexy male and herself. But Bastien seems to have an alergy to sunlight and a strange proclivity to keep bags of blood around the house. It would be one thing if it was his cousin, Vincent, who is playing a vampire in a campy off-Broadway production, but Bastien? Worse, Terri has already lost one husband to a terrible disease and she's promised herself that she will never put herself in that position again.<br /><br />After a few hundred years, Bastien thought he had seen everything. He'd had the one great love of his life--a human woman who rejected him when she learned he was a vampire. Now, he concentrates on his business--and he's very good at it. Of course, boredom has set in and he doesn't even bother eating any more as food has lost its appeal, but that's a small price to pay for eternal life. Terri walks into his life and suddenly he's noticing food, noticing sexual desire, wanting to do anything but go to work. He's learned one lesson, though. Human girls turn away quickly when they learn his secret.<br /><br />When the bride is called out of town and the wedding plans turn to disaster, Bastien and Terri need to work together to solve each crisis, quickly transforming simple desire into something that feels like love. Still, each of them has been burned in the past--and see themselves about to make the same mistake. Can the two overcome their fears to find love?<br /><br />Author Lynsay Sands makes vampires sexy but safe in this paranormal romantic comedy. Romance readers in the know will get a kick of the way Sands works her editor (Chris K) and Romantic Times publisher Katherine Falk into her story. I would have liked to see more of twists--a payoff to the disasters in the wedding plans and a real kick in the romantic resolution, but TALL, DARK & HUNGRY will certainly appeal to vampire fans who like their males well tamed.e way Sands works her editor (Chris K) and Romantic Times publisher Katherine Falk into her story. I would have liked to see more of twists--a payoff to the disasters in the wedding plans and a real kick in the romantic resolution, but TALL, DARK & HUNGRY will certainly appeal to vampire fans who like their males well tamed.	2004-10-04
510051:US	49115690	R33W7YWNT7B8B2	0399151710	825521848	Visions in Death	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Compelling blend of action, emotion, and detecting	A killer has struck New York. His violence and rape are escalating as he stalks women, murders them, and removes their eyes before posing them in some ritual pose. Futuristic cop Lieutenant Eve Dallas, along with her partner Detective Peabody, are assigned the case. But even futuristic science can do little to cope with a man who leaves nothing of himself behind, covers his face with dark glasses and sealant, and is so brutally strong that his victims have no chance against him.<br /><br />When a psychic contacts Eve and claims that she has had visions of the murders, Eve is initially reluctant. Sure there are registered sensitives, but there are also people who just want to be at the center of attention. Still, the psychic's visions check out--and her early warning allows Eve to be first on the scene in the killer's latest murder. Because the murders are escalating. Between the psychic and Eve's own detective work, the noose gradually tightens around the killer--but Eve's threats make him anxious to act first, to strike against Eve and her team. Finding the killer isn't enough--Eve needs to stay alive through the process.<br /><br />Author J. D. Robb (Robb is a pseudonym for best-selling Romance author Nora Roberts) integrates Eve's own abusive past into the story, increasing the reader connection to the events. By putting Even and Peabody in danger, Robb further increases the reader stakes in the outcome of the adventure. Eve's perfect boyfriend Roarke plays a supportive but not overwhelming role, allowing the focus to remain on Eve, her issues, and her detective skills.<br /><br />VISIONS IN DEATH is a compelling combination of adventure, futuristic police work, and emotion--with just a hint of romance. Although the futuristic aspects are a bit lightweight for hardcore SF fans, the combination, together with Robb's strong writing, makes for a highly enjoyable read.	2004-09-25
514036:US	49115690	R1627WTNA1AMHJ	0345464028	579397011	Iron Council	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very powerful stuff	The myth of the Iron Council has kept hope alive in the city of New Crobuzon. While corrupt political leaders force the city-state into a war without ending, while unemployment mounts and fascist gangs terrorise everyone who doesn't agree with them--and anyone who supports any kind of rights for the non-human or remade humans, dreams of the commune are fired by the story of the Iron Council.<br /><br />Once, it was simply a railroad--engineers, bed-layers, builders, engines, cars, [prostitutes]. But when the wages stopped coming, when the corruption of the railroad's management grew too strong, the workers struck, the [prostitutes] struck, and finally the remade slaves refused to scab on the human workers and the strike became revolt. The revolt was the beginning of the Iron Council--the train that pulled its rails up behind it as it dragged itself across a continent--to freedom.<br /><br />Author China Mieville combines three related stories--that of the revolt that led to the Iron Council, the revolt of the New Crobuzon commune against the corrupt political leadership, and the epic voyage of the Iron Council as it attempts to return to New Crobuzon to join in the uprising. The powerful unifying character of Judah Low, who saw the birth of the Iron Council and helped birth it's return, along with the train itself unite the three strands of the story.<br /><br />IRON COUNCIL takes a while to get, uh, rolling. But once Mieville gets on track, he drives the story forward with compelling style and imagery. Mieville combines strong, if occasionally overly-heroic figures with a fully developed and fascinating magic system, compelling images from our own history, and a political slant that is far to the left of center but that stays embedded in the story rather than becoming preachy.<br /><br />If you enjoy fantasy, but want to try something different, something with a strong social theme, IRON COUNCIL is definitely worth the investment.	2004-09-22
517877:US	49115690	RHE3BSMK0QE8O	0451459792	278877946	Dies the Fire: A Novel of the Change	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Enjoyable end of technology story	Without warning, nothing worked. Electricity failed, gunpowder fizzled rather than exploding, steam refused to reach high pressures, and virtually every technology of the past century or more vanished from Earth. Humanity had to find a way to cope, to go on in a world where large cities were impossible, where hunger was a very real threat, and where, without the force of arms, law broke down.<br /><br />Some people turned to canibalism, hunting the most easily caught large game available. Michael Havel, after surviving a small plane crash, relied on his Marine training and horse-riding skills to become a nomadic cavalry. Juniper Mackenzie, a musician, became leader of a Wican commune that began to spread its culture into the new dark age that overtook the northwest. And in Portland, Oregon, a college professor (the protector) decided that his special era--the Norman medievalism--had returned, with a particular Sauron of Middle Earth slant.<br /><br />The protector collected the fighters, the gangs, the thugs who survived the catastrophy and promised them that they'd be the new lords, the new dukes and barons. With his help, and the power of a great city--even if one crippled by the loss of technology--the thugs could carve out new territories, extending the protector's rule more and more broadly. Michael and Juniper, with their growing bands of followers provided alternate paths, but paths that could only be dead-ends unless the protector could be contained.<br /><br />Author S. M. Stirling revisits the disaster that led to the time travel of ISLAND IN THE SEA OF TIME, focussing on those who were left behind. Whereas in that book, modern technology was introduced to the past, here, modern technology is subtracted from the present. The concept works, especially because Stirling chose to present alternate paths. Rather than strictly dealing with a militaristic or oversimplified capitalistic solution, Stirling presented an approach that built from a commune as well as approaches that seem to lead to feudalism.<br /><br />To me, 'Lord Bear's' approach is going to end up painfully close to that of the protector--something that Stirling didn't deal with in this book but may have to in sequels. That threat doesn't keep this from being an enjoyable treat.well as approaches that seem to lead to feudalism.  <br /> <br />To me, 'Lord Bear's' approach is going to end up painfully close to that of the protector--something that Stirling didn't deal with in this book but may have to in sequels. That threat doesn't keep this from being an enjoyable treat. <br />	2004-09-18
522866:US	49115690	R1WOEA80DR102L	0345457234	912625496	Return Engagement (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Powerful Stuff--WWII if the South had won Civil War	Without a formal declaration of war, the South has invaded the northern states, their blitz-krieg driving from Kentucky through Ohio, threatening to cut the larger nation in half. Years of disarmament, appeasement, and confidence that final victory had been achieved all conspire to weaken the U.S., especially when traditional U.S. enemies, Japan, England, France, and Russia become involved in the war with only Germany and Austria-Hungary serving as allies.<br /><br />Author Harry Turtledove paints the story as a montage--told from the point of view of national leaders like Jake Featherston, the Hitler-like President of the Confederate States, and from the viewpoints of ordinary citizens--a waiter in Georgia, a terrorist bomber in occupied Canada, an enlisted sailer in the U.S. Navy, a Sonoma farmer, and many others. Most of the characters return from earlier volumes in this extended series--or are relatives of earlier point-of-view characters.<br /><br />In RETURN ENGAGEMENT, this technique works. The war (inspired by World War II in our reality) provides a focus and framework to the story. Because of this, everything hangs together--from the military operations, to the political, to the development of concentration camps and mass genocide in the south.<br /><br />It's easy for Americans to believe that they are somehow better people. Our victories and our success in staying together as a nation during our civil war tend to make us complacent. Harry Turtledove's immagining posits a different America--one where a slightly different set of circumstances (Lee's orders were never discovered by the Union and the South therefore won the Civil War) led to dramatically different results. As Turtledove instructively demonstrates, cruelty and evil are not limited to Germans or far-off terrorists but created by circumstances.<br /><br />RETURN ENGAGEMENT is powerful stuff--and among the best of Turtledove's recent works.	2004-09-13
524846:US	49115690	R26ZGAOIACWUT1	0553803859	394427229	Bad Move	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Promising first novel	Moving from the city to the suburbs should have been great. Science Fiction author Zack Walker doesn't have to worry about his children stumbling over the disposable needles he'd found outside their urban home and his wife gets a first floor laundry room. Sure there aren't the great delis, but that is a small sacrifice, isn't it. Although the suburbs are supposed to be safer, Zack doesn't let up on his perpetual quest to teach his children, and wife, to be more careful. When his wife leaves her keys in the door, he hides her car so it looks like it was stolen. When his children leave their backpacks at the top of the stairs, he pretends to have tripped and broken his neck. These 'lessons' result in him being labeled a 'jerk,' but he can't help himself. And when he sees that purse in the shopping cart, unattended, he has to teach one more lesson.<br /><br />Author Linwood Barclay does an excellent job planting clues for eventual payoff. Watch the little anecdotes carefully because they just might turn up again--in a much more important context. I thought Barclay's writing started a bit slowly, with excessive introspection, but once he gets going (around the end of the first chapter), the story and characters drew me in.<br /><br />The story would have been stronger if Zack's actions had been better motivated--especially his reaction to the misguided lesson with the purse. Surely the path he selected would have been among the least likely of actual choices. And the final wrap-up, while adding a nice mystery twist, seemed a bit too cute to me.<br /><br />Still, BAD MOVE is Barclay's first novel. The enjoyable writing and clever use of clues, plants, and payoffs make him a promising author to watch.	2004-09-11
527333:US	49115690	R1T4BZSRRIDT7F	078671333X	884493321	The Damascened Blade: The Third Novel Featuring Detective Joe Sandilands (Joe Sandilands Murder Mysteries)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Very strong historical mystery in the last days of the Raj	Between the world wars, peace is uneasy on the border between British India and Afghanistan. When a tribal group arrives at a British fort to escort a British doctor into Afghanistan, it looks like a chance for peace. By chance, a British Lord, an American millionairess, a London Detective, a British Air Force officer, and an Indian civil servant are also in the fort when, disaster, the leader of the escort is found dead. The doctor is quick to proclaim an accident, but detective Joe Sandilands doesn't believe it--the evidence is just a bit off. If it wasn't an accident, though, the death might just be what is required to set off an uprising within the tribal areas of what is now Pakistan--an uprising that overstretched Britain can ill afford.<br /><br />Sandilands, along with young millionairess Lily Coblenz, find themselves with the uncomfortable duty of discovering the truth, even if that truth might mean war. When the dead officer's successor challenges the official verdict, Lily finds herself a captive of the tribes and Joe must go undercover to discover the truth. But the real truth is something that goes back for years in a never-ending cycle of death and revenge that tears at the tribal border between India and Afghanistan.<br /><br />Author Barbara Cleverly manages a strong and sympthetic story of the declining years of the British Empire where peace hangs in the balance and where honor and truth are easy sacrifices for expediency. Both Sandilands and Coblenz are sympathetically drawn and attractive characters with just a hint of sexual chemistry between them. But the strength of the story comes from Cleverly's descriptions of a lost India and the balance she brings to her view of the cycle of violence.<br /><br />This is the first book I've read by Barbara Cleverly, but it certainly won't be the last. It is a well written and enjoyable historical treat.	2004-09-09
529656:US	49115690	R3I5TVVX244QX7	0778320804	944828088	The Halo Effect (Mira)	Books	3	41	46	N	N	Not quite there mix of eroticism and suspense	Psychologist and sex therapist Morgan Snow's favorite client is wealthy prostitute Cleo Thane who has recently sold a tell-all book. When Cleo vanishes and a serial killer begins dressing prostitutes as nuns and ritually murdering them, Morgan decides to investigate. Of course, she can't tell the police about the confidences Cleo shared with her in therapy, but she can use what she learned, what she knows about people, and what she discovers in Cleo's manuscript to help her.<br /><br />Morgan goes undercover at the club which serves as a front for Cleo's prostitution ring. Pretending to be a temporary replacement for the missing Cleo, Morgan meets with Cleo's regular clients--the ones written up in her book and with the most to lose if their secrets are revealed. Could one of these wealthy and powerful men be behind the murders? Meanwhile, Morgan struggles with her own issues--a recently ended marriage, a daughter who seeks to follow Morgan's mother's career in acting--a career that destroyed her mother, and a too-sexy police officer who just might be using his attractiveness to get at secrets that Morgan must protect.<br /><br />I could imagine the editors reading this book proposal and getting excited. Sex worker, check. Has to go undercover as a prostitute, check. Weird serial killer, check. Strong writing ability, check. It's all here, but for me, at least, it doesn't hang together as well as I had hoped. I had several problems with this book. First, the mystery is too obvious. That's not always bad because it can increase the suspense when the reader knows the killer and the protagonist doesnt, but in this case, it made Morgan seem stupid. Second, author M. J. Rose held back on the eroticism. Rather than combining the best of eroticism and suspense, THE HALO EFFECT comes a bit short on both counts.<br /><br />M. J. Rose can string words together and create characters and a story. I'll look forward to getting my hands on more books by her. For me, though, this one fell a bit short of my hopes.h, this one fell a bit short of my hopes.	2004-09-07
534030:US	49115690	R1DHCT67IXHNZD	0743261232	70528879	Maximum Security: A Crime Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Engagingly written but lacking a mystery twist	When her boyfriend asks her to represent an ex-girlfriend, attorney Marty Nickerson is reluctant. She's even more reluctant when she meets the beautiful woman--who promptly seduces her assistant (The Kydd). But when the new widow is accused of murdering her husband, Marty has to put aside her insecurities and go to bat for the client. Unfortunately, all of the evidence looks bad. Marty might not want the woman to start up again with her boyfriend, but she doesn't want her in jail for life either.<br /><br />Author Rose Connors writes an engaging, fast-moving story. Marty, with her boyfriend insecurities and problems with an ex-husband, makes a sympathetic character. MAXIMUM SECURITY is an easy book to pick up for a moment and keep reading until it's finished.<br /><br />From a mystery perspective, I thought there could be a bit more mystery--the solution is obvious as Connors failed to present many alternate possibilities. Although I enjoyed the book, I felt like I was owed a bit more twist.	2004-09-03
534163:US	49115690	R1WEOP4PDEI9Q0	0380979039	86692379	Forge of Heaven	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Complex and fascinating--a good one	For thousands of years, Concord Station has hung above a desert world--an desert intentionally created to destroy mankind's aggression. Now, representatives of Earth, the Outworlds, and the alien ondat coexist in uneasy balance, watching the survivors below, interacting with them, helping them, learning for them, but most of all being careful of them. Because one of the survivors is the Ila, the virtually immortal member of the first movement--which almost destroyed both human and ondat civilizations. Others below, in ever-shifting alliance with the Ila, are also immortal, living residences to the nanobe technology that Earth fears so much.<br /><br />Keeping the balance is essential for Concord Station--and that balance is threatened when an Earth ship arrives out of schedule. Aboard it, a registered diplomat demands to talk to Procyon, a 'Tap' and one of the few humans allowed contact with the immortal Marak below. The Earth Governor, and Outworld Chairman, traditional rivals, struggle to deal with this request when their entire existance comes under direct attack. Could the First Movement be loose after so many centuries? Could the Ila have penetrated the galaxy's most secure system?<br /><br />Author C. J. Cherryh is at her best in stories of complex interaction, moral ambiguity, and futuristic societies that have constructed cultures that are both dramatically different from those of Earth while remaining logical. FORGE OF HEAVEN is all of these--and an exciting adventure as well. Life-threatening action plays out in the planet below and in the station above, with Procyon, the Chairman and the Governor playing the major roles (although Marak, the key character in Cherryh's HAMMERFALL is also a significant character.)<br /><br />As with many of Cherryh's books, the reader needs to invest some energy into understanding the culture and background of the world Cherryh describes. Certainly in FORGE OF HEAVEN, the investment pays off. This is a good one.	2004-09-03
536987:US	49115690	R3JDQ3WNMRDYAR	0765310422	316359352	Scepters (Corean Chronicles, Book 3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great combination of magic, military, and moral ambiguity	With their own world disintegrating, the ifrit are desperate to complete the conquest of the Corean planet. Once they succeed, they will create a world of beauty, art, and glorious architecture. True, it's a world that will burn out fairly soon--that beauty can only be sustained at a cost to the planet's life force. Still, for the ifrit, it is a sacrifice they are willing to make--have, in fact made with their native world.<br /><br />Faced with an ifrit-inspired rebellion, the Lord Protector calls Alucius back into service. Alucius wants nothing but to be left to his herds and his pregnant wife, but the Lord Protector's request is compelling. If Alucius does nothing, the world will plunge into the chaos that the ifrit need to succeed in their invasion. But even military success only puts Alucius on a path for destruction. Putting down a rebellion means killing citizens, and eternal hatred.<br /><br />Alucius relies on his 'talent sense' (or magic) to face first the rebellion, then an invasion in the south fueled by terrible ancient weapons, and finally the ultimate threat in his own homeland where the ifrit have carved out a powerful base and are rapidly gaining control over the world's life-forces. Even assisted by a crack group of Northern Guard lancers, Alucius knows that he lacks the power to succeed on his own--but the ancient ones are dying and unable to offer him the assistance he needs.<br /><br />Author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. combines magic, military action, and a bit of moral ambiguity to provide a compelling adventure. SCEPTERS isn't the tale of good against evil, but rather a battle between different conceptions of good. Even if he is successful, Alucius cannot know that he has done the right thing, fought for the right cause. And the price to pay for a mistake is large, indeed.<br /><br />Modesitt is a strong writer with the power to draw the reader into a believable and fascinating world. Although SCEPTERS is part of a series, it can be read as stand-alone, although readers are likely to enjoy it even more if they read the earlier novels first.as stand-alone, although readers are likely to enjoy it even more if they read the earlier novels first.	2004-08-31
538625:US	49115690	R2SSNXWNDA6XJD	0060566698	425039559	Little Bitty Lies: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Funny but makes you care	The only thing worse than having your husband leave you, taking all your money with him, is having to admit it to your friends and neighbors. Mary Bliss McGowan simply can't face the humiliation. She refuses to be the subject of idle gossip, as so many of her divorcing friends have been in the tony Atlanta suburb where she lives. So, with the encouragement of her outrageous friend, Katherine, she tells one small lie--that her husband, Parker, died. Though Parker cleaned out the bank accounts and mortgaged the house, he overlooked one small life insurance policy, the proceeds of which would allow Mary Bliss to start with a clean slate. Best of all, she could quit her horrible job as a \\"product demonstration hostess\\" pushing inedible samples on hapless grocery store shoppers.<br /><br />But fictionally killing off a husband is harder than it might first appear, especially when persistent (and sexy!) investigator Matt Hayslip keeps showing up at inconvenient times and a bum named Dinky is trying to blackmail you.<br /><br />Once again, Mary Kay Andrews has created a fascinating world of southern gentility seething beneath the surface with gossip, betrayal and backstabbers. As Mary Bliss's lies pile one on top of another, getting more and more outrageous, I just couldn't imagine how she would get out of her dilemma (without going to prison). And that, in my opinion, is what makes a first-rate novel--really caring about the characters and biting your nails down to the quick as you worry about them. Oh, and the humor--this one was laugh-out-loud funny, over the top but with just enough truth to hit home. One of my favorite reads this year.	2004-08-30
539355:US	49115690	R2A2SRNY65I0LR	0385337337	512036392	Breakfast at Stephanie's	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good description, leisurely pace	Stephanie Glassman is a single mom barely squeaking by, looking for her big break as a singer. She is undeniably talented, yet she's spending another Christmas season playing the piano at a department store. She is also, of course, without a boyfriend. Now her son's nanny is going into the hospital and she's about to lose her house. She has the requisite complement of girlfriend pals, a set of nutty parents and a granny who's having more sex than Stephanie.<br /><br />But abruptly Stephanie's luck turns. A huge agent takes her on as a client and gets her a high-paying (if slightly shady) job recording songs for a big star who can't sing. A hunky actor is romantically pursuing her. And her son's father, a charming Italian stuntman, comes back into her life wanting desperately to be a father, to form a family. It's almost too good to be true. But with good fortune come difficult decisions.<br /><br />While Stephanie was a thoroughly lovable heroine, this book moved far too slowly for my taste. It felt like the first three quarters of the book was set-up, and only in the last part, when scandals break and conflicts come to a head and the wrong decisions are made, does the story really become a page turner. I was never thoroughly convinced of the love between Stephanie and Frank, the actor. He wasn't well fleshed-out, and I was sort of rooting for the stuntman, who was adorable. The book is worth a read for British chick-lit fans, though, and those who enjoy a leisurely pace and good, descriptive writing.	2004-08-29
542144:US	49115690	R1CXR8VOLZ8C4V	0786713372	689435974	Terminal Island: A Jack Liffey Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent and thoughtful mystery--Wow	Jack Liffey is recouperating from a collapsed lung when an old friend--from his elementary school days--calls for a favor. Police Lieutenant Ken Steelyard has a problem. Someone is has grabbed a San Pedro youth, planted an explosive, and damaged the train set that is Steelyard's life. Since Liffey investigates missing children, maybe he can help. Against the advice of his doctor and girlfriend, Liffey accepts--and launches himself into a strange world where the clues are carefully scripted Japanese playing cards--with the kanji characters for 'no, no' stamped on them.<br /><br />As Steelyard and Liffey investigate, the clues point back to the horrible days of World War II when Japanese-Americans were rounded up, sent to internment camps, and lost all of their possessions. Terminal Island, the small island that makes up a part of the port of Los Angeles/Long Beach, was once home to a thriving Japanese fishing community. Could someone be revenging himself for this long-ago dishonor? It hardly seems possible that an survivor of these American concentration camps could be terrorising modern Los Angeles, but there is definitely a connection.<br /><br />Author John Shannon shines his powerful spotlight into San Pedro and Terminal Island--parts of Los Angeles that retain a part of their history despite the radical changes that Los Angeles imposes on itself regularly--and into the long-denied reality of American fear and injustice. Jack Liffey makes a wonderful hero--a man who cares, who wants to do what is right in a morally ambiguous world, and a man who struggles to make the world better for his daughter and her friends.<br /><br />TERMINAL ISLAND is a powerfully moving story--with plenty of fast-paced action, thoughtful examination of the way the world works, and an ultimately positive message. I admit that coming from the San Pedro area made me suspicious at first--but Shannon won me over completely. I strongly recommend this book--even if you're not an Angeleno.no.	2004-08-26
544319:US	49115690	R3D3HBV0PU5Q9E	0399151699	47853426	Walking Money	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Engaging and entertaining	A riot in Miami causes businesses to shut early, the police to take the streets, and a number of people to think about the loot in a bank safety deposit box. The bank manager has been drooling over the money; the man who's been putting the money in the bank wants it free and clear; his lawyer and partner would kill for the money; an FBI agent thinks it would be the perfect retirement gift, and just about every local or state cop who hears about it wants it. The money keeps moving--and the body count keeps creeping up. But the one really innocent man, Bill Tasker, is the one the FBI believes took it. And unless Tasker can find the real thief(s), he's the one going to jail.<br /><br />Tasker has had a rough time since he was involved in a shooting--he was once accused of killing a dirty cop to suppress evidence of his own involvement--and now things are getting rougher. He's suspended from his job, investigated by the FBI, and even his friends are interested in what he's going to do with the money. The only good thing he has going for him is that both his ex-wife and the pretty cop from the office are suddenly much more interested.<br /><br />Author James O. Born is a long-time Florida cop and his knowledge of the state shines through. The money really does walk, changing hands frequently, and the FBI is presented as the bunch of well-intentioned boy-scouts they often are. I would have liked to see more character development, more purpose to Tasker's search for evidence to clear himself, and a bit less of the frantic exchange of money between the criminals and cops, but that didn't keep this from being an engaging story.	2004-08-25
544837:US	49115690	R93ZO80O1HZM0	0142196312	97402135	100 Simple Ways to Become a More Inspired, Successful and Fearless Writer:	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Some great inspiration to us warrior-writers	Whether they know it or not, writers and martial artists have a lot in common. People ask 'why do you do that' to both groups. The rewards from each are only partly financial and both groups needs to find something deep within them to motivate themselves. The common predjudice is that you need a lot of talent to succeed at either but accomplished writers and martial artists know that no amount of talent is sufficient without the hard-work basics to convert it into capability. In 100 short lessons, author Jennifer Lawler takes the lessons she learned from years of martial arts practice and applies them to writing.<br /><br />Some examples: Flexibility is Strength; Self-consciousness prevents action; Protect the Beginner; Overcome fear by encountering it. Some of these are obvious but even there, Lawler provides a writing 'exercise' that goes with each lesson, extending the thought, applying it directly to each writer--whether the writer pursues fiction or non-fiction.<br /><br />Obligatory note: like Jennifer Lawler, I am both a writer and a black belt level martial artist and have long believed that the two are closely related--two art forms that complement one another. That said, you don't need to be a martial artist to find Lawler's 100 lessons to be useful and fun. DOJO WISDOM FOR WRITERS isn't a 'how to' book. Instead, it's designed as a source of inspiration, little hints from one writer to another, and some thoughts on how to make the lonely journey to becoming a writer (or a warrior) more fulfilling.<br /><br />DOJO WISDOM is a 'frosting' book. If you could only have three writing books, you'd probably want to start with something like TECHNIQUES OF THE SELLING WRITER by Dwight Swain or WRITING THE BREAKOUT NOVEL by Donald Mass. But once you've got the basics, you'll want to add books that inspire, encourage, and motivate. DOJO WISDOM is a great choice for that list--and a great idea for a gift to your favorite author.	2004-08-24
546842:US	49115690	R2QMWS3XHCAO7W	0345461258	356908131	Lost and Found: The Taken Trilogy Book 1	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Pure escapist fun	Chicago commodity trader Marc Walker is planning to win a bet by spending a week camping by a beautiful California lake. The strange object in the sky is less initially less interesting than the attractive woman at the bar but when Marc wakes up to discover that his bit of California lakefront has been transported into an alien spaceship, he realizes that he's misplaced his priorities. With the assistance of a talking dog and a group of also-abducted aliens--intended for some sort of alien zoo or perversion--Marc battles despair. Still, what can one human, even if assisted by an overly smart dog, do against an entire spaceship full of alien-tamers?<br /><br />Some of the captive aliens are smarter than Marc. Some are much stronger. But Marc's drive for success made him a top commodity trader back in Chicago and it eggs him on--to do something rather than wait to be sold into slavery. Unfortunately, he must also deal with the reality that not all of the prisoners want to escape--and there are always some willing to betray him in exchange for food or simply out of cruelty. And even if he did escape, where, exactly would he go on a huge spaceship located billions of miles from the planet he once called home?<br /><br />Author Alan Dean Foster writes a charming story of alien abduction and human survival. The characters of George the dog, Braouk, the monster, and Sque the vain octopus-creature are amusing and well thought out. LOST AND FOUND is a bit of a throwback to the science fiction of the 1960s, with pure escapism at its heart.<br /><br />If you're looking to take a break from 'serious' SF and seeking for some pure escapist fun, LOST AND FOUND may be just the ticket.	2004-08-23
548390:US	49115690	R2IUMN9C84OVCY	1401300871	334407495	Whiskey Sour (Jack Daniels Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well written with a nice touch of humor	When a body is found in the trash can outside a Chicago 7-11, police lieutenant Jacqueline (Jack) Daniels is given the case. The perp left a note and a gingerbread man--a clue he leaves when he kills his second victim. He's getting more imaginative, prolonging the torture, getting enjoyment out of each beautiful woman's death. Daniels has to deal with her own issues--insomnia, a boyfriend who dumps her for his trainer, and FBI agents who want to stake out a horse and seize control of the case. But when the 'gingerbread man' develops a fascination for Daniels, the mystery becomes not just whether she can catch him, but whether she'll be his next victim.<br /><br />In his first novel, author J. A. Konrath displays a light touch with plenty of chuckle moments as Daniels deals with the bureaucracy of city and federal governments.<br /><br />WHISKEY SOUR is an engaging story, smoothly written and hard to put down. I had hoped for a bit more cleverness in the final identification of the perp--and the climactic showdown--but that didn't keep me from enjoying this book. I'll certainly look forward to the next Jack Daniels story.	2004-08-21
548589:US	49115690	R2SJTZ0PQUL2RL	0743488334	845046018	Emerald Sea (Council Wars)	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Undersea action and anti-environmental propaganda	In the distant future, mankind had created paradise. But too much paradise and not enough fertility caused a decline in human population and a loss of mankind's exploration. Hoping to head off human extinction, one group of leaders, 'New Destiny,' proposed a daring plan--a plan to recreate work and abolish paradise. It was a noble plan, well meant, but New Destiny's leaders couldn't win their argument fairly and resorted to poison and war. The result was an end to paradise all right, but the new world was nothing that anyone could have predicted. Communities sprung up around reenactment camps and a sort of feudal aristocracy battled the immoral forces that New Destiny now command.<br /><br />Duke Edward Talbot, along with his family and the Blood Lord Herzer Herrick set off to the carribean to persuade the merfolk to join their alliance against the dictatorship of New Destiny. The mer hoped for neutrality and New Destiny sent its own persuasive forces. Command of the sea is vital as the alliance controls most of North America while New Destiny rules Europe/Asia. An ancient elf-girl and a mercenary rabbit provide some help, but New Destiny has infiltrated the alliance and learns their plans almost before they can be conceived.<br /><br />Author John Ringo serves up more military action in a sequel to THERE WILL BE DRAGONS. The action moves from land to sea as Edward's forces launch a dragon carrier to battle the orca-based reconfigured humans of New Destiny.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Ringo can't keep his politics out of his writing. His strong anti-environmentalism (he interupts a battle to engage in a long explanation of how global warming wasn't a problem, how carbon sinks (supposedly not understood by scientists but fully understood by an SF writer) soak up more carbon than anyone can imagine, is completely unnecessary to the plot, boring readers who agree with him and annoying readers who think he's smoking funny stuff.<br /><br />If you're like me, you read Ringo for the fast-paced action. EMERALD SEA delivers plenty of that and Ringo fans will want to grab this latest additon. Some selective trimming of Ringo's pet political causes could have made the book even better but that doesn't mean it isn't a solid SF offering.ou read Ringo for the fast-paced action. EMERALD SEA delivers plenty of that and Ringo fans will want to grab this latest additon. Some selective trimming of Ringo's pet political causes could have made the book even better but that doesn't mean it isn't a solid SF offering.	2004-08-21
551100:US	49115690	R1B45LI4HDEWTA	0399151893	774197128	McNally's Bluff (Sanders, Lawrence)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very cute light mystery	All of Palm Beach society is gathered at the home of a new arrival--former carnival owner Matthew Hayes. The party, a first look at a huge maze the carney built on his expensive property. But the prize turns out to be something none of the party-goers expected--a dead body at the center of the maze. Private Investigator (and man about town) Archy McNally was at the party and now Matt is asking for Archy's help in finding his wife's killer. Archy resists at first--but the case just might tie into another one that his father has been asked to provide legal services to.<br /><br />As always, Archy finds himself swimming through a sea of beautiful women. There's his longtime-but-no-longer lover, Consuela. There's new love interest, Georgie. But there's also the beautiful and rich widow of a Florida billionaire--who just might have killed that very billionaire. And Archy can't help being attracted to the T.V. star--despite her being quite married. With his erstwhile sidekick, Binky, off providing services to a muckraking reporter, Archy is on his own in trying to find a killer.<br /><br />The Vincent Lardo/Lawrence Sanders stories attempt and sometimes achieve a modern remake of the suave private eyes of the 1930s. Archy is always well (if sometimes ostentatiously) dressed, likes his alcohol, treats women like cute puppies, and is fastidious with his grammar. In several earlier stories, I objected to a streak of cruelty in Archy's treatment of Binky and others. Here, Archy seems not less full of himself but at least less cruel to others. His run-in with a several-year-old suit even exposed a bit of well-hidden self-doubt.<br /><br />Lardo keeps a quick light tone, maintains a steady diet of beautiful women, corpses, high society, and murder, and delivers a page-turning mystery read. It's fluff, of course, but it's enjoyable fluff.	2004-08-19
554818:US	49115690	R2A9FI02JXJEJJ	0765310015	599137545	Gardens of the Moon (The Malazan Book of the Fallen, Book 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Kicks tail after somewhat slow start	Ruled by its ambitious Empress, the Malazan Empire has sent its armies on a wave of conquest with one city-state after another falling. Not by coincidence, the armies most loyal to the overthrown Empire suffer most of the casualties. Former General, and now Sergeant Whiskeyjack has seen his company shrunk to a handful--given one incompetent officer after another. One city stands in the way of Malazan's capture of another continent--and Whiskeyjack and his company are sent to prepare for the Empire's takeover--and to die. The Empire has more weapons in its quiver--because the remaining city, Darnjhistan, has gathered powerful allies of its own. And the gods seem intent on playing a role--something that the Empress definitely intends to head off.<br /><br />Author Steven Erikson creates a complex and powerful world with morally ambivalent forces battling one another. The warren-based spell system is an interesting take on the use of magic and the rich history underlying Erikson's world adds a dimension to the story.<br /><br />I had a hard time getting into this story. The first hundred pages was tough going, with too many characters, most of whom appeared undermotivated and unsympathetic. Erikson's strong writing and the interesting world kept me going. Once the story got to Darnjhistan, however, things definitely picked up. The gods, the mortals, and the godlike powers play their games and it's fascinating stuff. If you like high fantasy, you should give GARDENS OF THE MOON a try.	2004-08-16
555812:US	49115690	R2QC4P7VCOUXL6	0345453425	554884676	Cry No More	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Evil baby-stealers get their come-uppance	Milla Edge's infant son was wrestled from her arms in a Mexican marketplace and spirited away, but not before Milla maimed her attacker. She has spent ten years tirelessly searching for her child, whom she believes was sold on the black market. She heads a group called Finders, which searches for missing persons. She is very good at finding others' children, but has had almost no success finding her own.<br /><br />She receives an anonymous tip that she should find a man named Diaz, that he knows something. It turns out Diaz is not involved with the kidnappers, but he is hunting them, too. They have moved on to murder and illegal organ smuggling. Milla must join forces with the dark, frightening Diaz, but with his help she discovers the ones responsible for the loss of her child might be closer than she thinks ...<br /><br />It's not an original plot, nor a very believable one. The plot moves with pondering slowness at times, and the villains were ridiculously easy to spot. But Milla is a wonderful character, very human, very believable, with strenghts and weaknesses. And one thing Ms. Howard excels at in all of her books is the sexual tension and the actual love scenes. In most books I skim the love scenes, but not hers. She manages to make them fresh and interesting.<br /><br />Though this was a book of suspense, the bad guys are rounded up early, and the last 20 percent of the story is devoted to Milla's emotional turmoil over the fate of her child and finishing off the romantic plot. Those last pages kept me riveted as no amount of chases and gun fights did earlier. Linda Howard fans won't be disappointed.	2004-08-15
558971:US	49115690	R1IXQNGW11J4EZ	0553803875	714444117	Full Dark House (Bryant & May Mysteries)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Solid entertainment	World War II rages and London shudders under the blitz, but the public must be assured that things are normal, that crime doesn't pay, and that the police are on the job. One police grout, the Peculiar Crimes Unit is established to handle the odd and different cases and staffed by one of the most peculiar of England's police--Arthur Bryant. When new detective John May joins, the two set off in search of a body missing its feet and discover a theater production set to explode.<br /><br />With a modern wrapper centered around a bombing that destroys the Peculiar Crimes building and survivor John May's attempts to make sense of his partner's death--a death that seems linked to their first case together, FULL DARK HOUSE spends most of its time in the past--when May and Bryant were young, when censors could still close down plays for showing too much of a chorus-girl's thighs, and when people could lose themselves in London and only be found when they decided themselves.<br /><br />Author Christopher Fowler combines straightforward police procedural investigation with a bit of mysticism, numerous allusions to classical mythology, and a strange theater that truly becomes a character in this strange story. May and Bryant's differences (May is logical, Bryant a believer in the occult) deepens their partnership and allows the two of them to argue their way to a solution to the strange crimes. Because the severed feet are only the beginning of the deaths associated with this play.<br /><br />I thought FULL DARK HOUSE went a little slowly from time to time and I'm still not sure that the modern 'wrapper' added a lot to the story, but May, Bryant, their unfortunate love lives, and the oddly haunted theater add up to solid entertainment.	2004-08-12
560706:US	49115690	R16W0XJMU1G0SN	0765305038	845349303	Newton's Wake: A Space Opera	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fun, thoughtful, and approachable	The war between Europe and the United States ended abruptly (although not before huge destruction) when the U.S. artifical intelligences jumped the firewalls and subsumed much of the human population. For moments, the hugely grown artificial intelligence was all-powerful, then, it vanished into infinity, too vast to be comprehended or even bothered by the petty wars and struggles left behind. Most of humanity was caught up in the 'rapture.' A few groups, though--America Offline descended from rural out-of-touch farmers, the Knights of Enlightenment--descendents of surviving Japanese and Chinese, Kemokratische Kommunistbund--northern Koreans cut off from computers by their governments isolationism, and a family of Scottish bandits (combat archeologists) who mostly control the tunnels between the stars. When Lucinda Carlyle of the Scots family stumbles across a planet settled by humans who had been on Mars at the time of the Rapture, everything changes. The inhabitants of Eurydice have access to the wormholes between the stars in a new way that puts the Carlyles to shame. But will the new variable in the equation mean war? And even in Eurydice, ancient rivalries between those who wanted to flee the solar system and those who hoped to save the humans forced into the artificial intelligence remain. Now, for the first time, it might actually be possible to realize that dream.<br /><br />Author Ken MacLeod creates an intriguing universe and populates it with authentic characters and a touch of humor. He calls NEWTON'S WAKE a 'Space Opera,' and it does contain excitement, space travel, and youthful characters attempting to survive terrible mistakes and outrageous odds, but WAKE is much more thoughtful than an old-fashioned space opera. MacLeod asks fundamental questions about humanity, our future, and the nature of our goals--and provides only hints of an answer in the context of an entertaining story. Trust me, it works.<br /><br />MacLeod is firmly tongue-in-cheek with his playwright, Benjamin Ben-Ami and his plays, including the 'Tragedy of Leonid Brezhnev,' 'The Madness of George II' and Jesus Koresh. I enjoyed the way MacLeod integrated his political beliefs into the story, unlike the more heavy-handed approach he had used in the earlier (but still enjoyable) books reviewed on this site. MacLeod is maturing as a writer, creating in layers now that make his work far more approachable, yet every bit as complex and thoughtful as his earlier novels.with his playwright, Benjamin Ben-Ami and his plays, including the 'Tragedy of Leonid Brezhnev,' 'The Madness of George II' and Jesus Koresh. I enjoyed the way MacLeod integrated his political beliefs into the story, unlike the more heavy-handed approach he had used in the earlier (but still enjoyable) books reviewed on this site. MacLeod is maturing as a writer, creating in layers now that make his work far more approachable, yet every bit as complex and thoughtful as his earlier novels.  <br />	2004-08-09
563806:US	49115690	ROI171055GS4P	0312310145	848704733	A Feast of Poisons: A Kathryn Swinbrooke Mystery (Kathryn Swinbrooke Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not quite up to earlier books in series	While the French ambassadors visit Lord Henry, hoping to secure a permanent peace between France and England, a rash of poisonings breaks out in Lord Henry's nearby town of Walmer. Visiting physician Kathryn Swinbrooke, newly married to Irishman Colum Murtagh, suspects that the poisonings are related to the recent execution of three Lancaster loyalists after the York victories of Barnet and Tewkesbury. Of course, Walmer has a dark past--not long before, Lord Henry had broken up a gang that lured ships to the dangerous shore and despoiled them. Of course, the treacherous Frenchmen, or possibly the visiting preacher, could have something to do with it. Besides, as Colum points out to Kathryn, even Lord Henry is hardly above suspicion.<br /><br />Set in War of the Roses England, A FEAST OF POISONS deals with greed, the fears that drive men to sin, and atonement of guilt. Because virtually everyone has some great guilt, some horrible secret, hanging over their heads. When one of the French ambassadors is found poisoned, Kathryn wonders whether there could possibly be a connection between the remote rural village and the high and mighty of the kingdom.<br /><br />Author C. L. Grace spent a bit too much time with Kathryn and Colum admiring how much in love with one another they were and how perfect their bodies were. In mystery, I like to get a good feel for the various red herrings, their possible motives, their private guilts. I didn't feel that I got enough of that in FEAST.<br /><br />The War of the Roses is a particularly fascinating point in English history and Grace's strong adherence to the Yorkist cause is a nice switch from the Shakespearian-based histories that followed the eventual Lancaster victory. A FEAST OF POISONS is an interesting story but I would have liked to see more interesting character development to add to the late-medieval atmosphere. For me, at least, FEAST did not live up to the promise set in earlier novels in the Kathryn Swinbrooke series.series.	2004-08-06
564149:US	49115690	R30YDDUTA4YECB	0316601012	199700691	Black: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Exciting war-on-terror action with a twist	FBI Agent Jeremy Waller is living his dreams. Promoted into the elite FBI Hostage Rescue Team (HRT), he gets to play with the big boys. But war on terror is a different kind of law enforcement and Jeremy finds himself in a situation where he doesn't know the rules and where he can't tell who are his allies or enemies. Senator Elizabeth Beechum is set to be the next Presidential nominee when she's attacked in her home--and then accused of murder. Those who were once her friends pull away from her, her nomination vanishes into thin air, and even loyal constituents back in South Carolina start to question their votes. CIA agent Sirad Malneax has infiltrated one of the largest, most secretive, and dangerous companies in the world. Now, though, her cover is compromised. Because the owners of Borders Atlantic will stop at nothing, certainly not murder, to keep their secrets and push their own agenda.<br /><br />In a suspenseful thriller, author Christopher Whitcomb brings the war on terror to life. Morals, laws, and decency are sacrificed in the bloody war to prevent a financial catastrophy--but there are always some who are willing to sell themselves, their secrets, and their country's security to the highest bidder. When Borders Atlantic launches a super-secure phone system--one that even NSA computers cannot crack, the terrorists prepare to have a field day against a prostrate U.S.<br /><br />Whitcomb weaves elements of his story together letting the reader scurry to catch up. Senator Beechum, in particular, is an interesting and well dimensioned character (Malneaux and Waller are perhaps a bit perfect). The exciting conclusion has a bit of a John Le Carre feel--which is definitely a compliment. I do wonder about Beechum's reaction at the end. Surely more heads would roll.	2004-08-06
564191:US	49115690	R21WT9B3V2AW7R	0373765924	194399086	Best-Kept Lies (Silhouette Desire #1592)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	In the mountain cabin with the sexy bodyguard	Randi McCafferty can take care of herself--and her baby son. She doesn't need the bodyguard her brothers hired to protect her and she certainly wouldn't want her bodyguard to be the man whom she'd slept with. but detective Kurt Striker didn't intend to let Randi out of his sight. He was going to find the secret of her baby's father and the secrets of who might hate her enough to threaten her life. If this meant opening every wound he'd ever suffered, that was part of the price of his job.<br /><br />As Randi's enemy gradually grows closer, Kurt and Randi head for a remote mountain cabin, but even this security is short-lived. Of course, there's nothing like a remote mountain cabin for putting a hero and heroine together where they can't help fall in love. Finally, though, as they head back to Montana, their luck runs out and Randi's stalker finally tracks them down.<br /><br />After a slow first half where Randi and Kurt spend too much time alone, thinking about the night they spent together, author Lisa Jackson picks up the pace in the second half. Randi remains strong and determined to be self-reliant but gradually understands what motivates Kurt and feels the emotional attachment. The mystery element of this Silhouette Desire serves mainly as an excuse to keep Randi and Kurt together and there isn't a lot of detecting going on.	2004-08-06
565359:US	49115690	R1EMMZPK1J5T4Y	0451411439	554153587	Promise Him Anything	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Grittier, Scarier, Bigger	Juliette Monroe learns that her abusive ex-husband, David, has found her in the most terrifying way possible, when she hears he has taken an entire daycare center hostage, including her little boy. Working with a local detective in Riverton, Kansas, Nick Corelli, she talks her violent ex into surrendering--only to have him escape and vow a terrible vengeance.  <br /> <br />Juliette longs to flee again. But Nick convinces her that unless she wants to run the rest of her life, she needs to stick around Riverton until David is captured and testify against him. Nick vows to protect her. But can he, really? Once before, he failed to protect someone he loved. And David is proving to be anincredibly evil, vicious, and clever adversary.  <br /> <br />Author Carla Cassidy has taken the romantic suspense she does so well at Silhouette Intimate Moments and cranked it up several notches. This is grittier, scarier, bigger in scope than her previous work, and a great page turner that will have you checking and re-checking your locks. <br />	2004-08-05
565568:US	49115690	R6Z6UMAILSJDE	0451411439	554153587	Promise Him Anything	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Grittier, Scarier, Bigger	Juliette Monroe learns that her abusive ex-husband, David, has found her in the most terrifying way possible, when she hears he has taken an entire daycare center hostage, including her little boy. Working with a local detective in Riverton, Kansas, Nick Corelli, she talks her violent ex into surrendering--only to have him escape and vow a terrible vengeance.<br /><br />Juliette longs to flee again. But Nick convinces her that unless she wants to run the rest of her life, she needs to stick around Riverton until David is captured and testify against him. Nick vows to protect her. But can he, really? Once before, he failed to protect someone he loved. And David is proving to be anincredibly evil, vicious, and clever adversary.<br /><br />Author Carla Cassidy has taken the romantic suspense she does so well at Silhouette Intimate Moments and cranked it up several notches. This is grittier, scarier, bigger in scope than her previous work, and a great page turner that will have you checking and re-checking your locks.	2004-08-05
566716:US	49115690	RDJ0UBJA8AGFO	0345448375	365126170	Dead Lines (Bear, Greg)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Creepy near-future story of death and telecom	From the moment his best friend dies, sexploitation filmmaker Peter Russell's life is changed. His mentor asks him to see a wise woman with a question about whether someone can continue without a soul--and Peter starts to see ghosts. A strange new telecommunications company offers to hire Peter to come up with an ad campaign for their service but he is so distracted by the ghosts and his friend's death that he has a hard time dealing with even his best job offer in years.<br /><br />The ghost of his dead daughter is the final blow. Murdered two years earlier, Daniella suddenly appears to him, talks to him. Peter gradually learns that others are seeing the ghosts. Something has changed, the way that ghosts normally operate has been disrupted. And it's up to Peter to figure out how to put things right.<br /><br />Author Greg Bear weaves a compelling story of a man's disintegration. Peter makes an interesting character with his history with women, the loss of his murdered daughter, his battle with alcohol, and his tangential relationship with reality. But even a disturbed man can see the truth and Peter is gradually forced to believe that the ghosts he sees are real--and are created by something under human control. But the ghosts are only part of the problem. Because a soulless body can be a danger to itself and everyone around it.<br /><br />DEAD LINES is a creepy near-future SF story as fresh as the telecom meltdown headlines and with the type of atmosphere that will leave you thinking for days.	2004-08-04
567897:US	49115690	R3GOEUDTNE3QPW	0765304481	902342095	Retro (The Amos Walker Series #18)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very strong hard-boiled mystery	A simple assignment--delivering a dead madam's ashes to her adoptive son--turns out complicated and dangerous as private investigator Amos Walker investigates. The son, a Viet Nam era fugitive, is surprisingly easy to track down, especially when Walker calls on a retired FBI former client. But, ashes delivered, the son has an idea that he'd like to hire Amos to track down his father's killer--a murder that happened decades earlier, in an era when black fighters were definitely not supposed to date white entertainers.<br /><br />When Walker's new client is killed in an airport hotel--a hotel behind all of the screening devices of modern anti-terrorism, Amos knows that the past has re-emerged. Especially since Walker was set up as a suspect.<br /><br />Walker mixes with a tough county police Captain, his retired FBI buddy, a couple of gangsters in town for what looks like a setup, the gangster's beautiful girlfriend who looks to Walker for help escaping, and the aging witnesses to the long-ago shooting. Whether in style, gangsters, or murder, everything old is new again--and Walker has to move quickly to stay alive himself.<br /><br />Author Loren D. Estleman delivers an exciting hard-boiled mystery. Walker, with his stuborn commitment to finding the truth no matter who gets in his way, is a classic retro figure himself. Interesting dialogue, fascinating introspection, Walker's cynical but true observations on life, and high suspense and danger, along with Estleman's compelling writing, make RETRO a fast-paced and hard-to-put-down novel. If you like hard-boiled private detective thrillers, RETRO is definitely one you should check out.	2004-08-03
569836:US	49115690	R1HWLIBCAQ5UYN	0312890656	944413181	Redeeming the Lost (Tales of Kolmar)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Lack of character planning, reliance on luck weaken story	The dragons have returned from their exile only to face an even greater danger. The evil mage Berys has recreated the long-lost and nameless demon-master (the one who almost destroyed the dragon race in an earlier age), endowing him with a golem-body of lava in the shape of a black dragon. Together, the mage and demon-master intend to complete the destruction of the dragons while Berys plans to rule over the surviving humans as their king.<br /><br />Although they do not know how they'll be able to fight the black dragon, the dragons, joined by their lesser kindred (who were severed from the race by the magic of the demon-master but who have regained use of their sole-stones and hence thier intelligence) along with the human Lanen, wife of the dragon-king and now pregnant with their twins, will never give up the battle. And dragons are very strong against demons. The mage, however, intends to use Lanen for his own purposes and seizes her.<br /><br />As the battle approaches, the mage intends to destroy or subvert those humans who could use magic against him, subjugate Lanen, and join with his black-dragon ally. The dragon-king must first rescue his wife and then discover a way to defeat two enemies, either of whom seems unbeatable.<br /><br />Author Elizabeth Kerner creates a fascinating universe of magic, dragons, demons, and a goddess whose deeds are always accompanied by balance. The three classes of dragons--including the dragons, the lesser kindred, and the dragons destroyed by the demon-master centuries earlier add a complexity and interest to the story. Romance fans may also enjoy the multiple romances running through the story. Lanen loves her husband but the battle risks what they have together. Mages, healers, blacksmiths, and mercenaries form love triangles where true love is hard to find.<br /><br />For me, the story was weakened by Kerner's frequent point-of-view shifts, detracting from the story development. An even more serious flaw was the lack of a plan on the part of the heros. While the mage has a plan, the dragons, healers, and Laren simply react to Berys's plan hoping that something good will happen. When good things do happen, I didn't get a sense that these were the result of anything but fortune--and Kerner's desire to have the story work out well for her characters. REDEEMING THE LOST definitely has points of interest but it falls short of the potential that the world-building set up.e lack of a plan on the part of the heros. While the mage has a plan, the dragons, healers, and Laren simply react to Berys's plan hoping that something good will happen. When good things do happen, I didn't get a sense that these were the result of anything but fortune--and Kerner's desire to have the story work out well for her characters. REDEEMING THE LOST definitely has points of interest but it falls short of the potential that the world-building set up. <br />	2004-08-01
576062:US	49115690	R9OPBRYB1A5PU	059530253X	885318963	A Small Case of Murder	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Lawyer uncovers a trail of death	After the death of his wife, lawyer Joshua Thornton brings his children back to his native West Virginia where he intends to set up a law practice. But from the moment he steps into his new office, he begins discovering clues to a wave of crime that has held the town in fear for decades--a crime wave associated with murder, the drug trade, and intimately connected to the largest church in town. But a lawyer has to eat--and the criminals control the police and prosecutors in their county. What can one man do against the power and evil he faces?<br /><br />As Thornton starts digging into the case, he discovers that a string of strange deaths have been associated with the Rev. Rawlings. The minister's wife, his daughter-in-law, Thornton's own parents and their friend Lulu, and a strange and unidentified man discovered by teenagers on prom night are all dead. If anything, death strikes more quickly once Thornton arrives with Rawlings' own granddaughter the next victim--pierced through the heart with a steel stake. Along with his recovering alcoholic cousin, Tad, Thornton will have to move quickly if he doesn't want to be the next victim--or put his children in danger.<br /><br />Author Lauren Carr delivers an intriguing mystery--plenty of murder, a dark secret, criminals with powerful political connections, and a twist at the end. Carr's writing is strong and engaging. The story could have been stronger, however, if Thornton had done less talking and more action. The long interogation scenes seem like throwbacks to Perry Mason. Also, it could be just me, but I wish the characters had smiled and chuckled a bit less when they talked. After a while, it started to pull me out of the story.<br /><br />There is a strong element of faith involved in the story. Thornton's quest is more than that of a lawyer seeing the truth, to a real degree, he is also fighting evil.	2004-07-26
579365:US	49115690	R1Q0XX1J1L2ERF	0060561246	167107426	Some Enchanted Evening (Lost Princesses)	Books	2	8	12	N	N	When a woman says no, she means...	When revolution overtook their small kingdom of Beaumontagne, the king sent his three daughters to England for safety. Despite the success of the counter-revolution, the three sisters are now lost, surviving on their wits in a foreign land. Middle sister, Clarice, is trying to stay ahead of the English law and make a living selling cosmetics when she travels to Scotland, to the fiefdom of Robert MacKenzie, Earl of Hepburn. Robert doesn't believe Clarice is a real princess, but he does suspect she's a great actor--and he needs an actor for a revenge plan.<br /><br />Robert invites Clarice to help his sister plan a ball to honor an English war hero and lets his desire urge him to a forceful seduction. Eventually he persuades Clarice to go along with his plan--but revenge has a way of backfiring and Clarice finds herself in danger. Can Robert admit the depths of his feeling to himself and admit the love he feels? Can Clarice give up her duty to her country and settle for love?<br /><br />Fans of highly sensual regency-era romance are likely to enjoy the Scottish setting, the dark and driven hero, and the duty-bound princess. I found the love scenes to be too similar to rape to appreciate the sensuality of the writing and am still confused as to how Robert could knife an English guard and not fear legal consequences.<br /><br />Author Christina Dodd will please her fans with this book but I couldn't help thinking that it could have been a bit more clever.	2004-07-23
579761:US	49115690	RX37NJATX1X80	0786932511	44822623	Tides of Blood (Dragonlance: The Minotaur Wars, Vol. 2)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Solid fantasy adventure	After overthrowing the corrupt Minotaur King Chot, usurper King Hotak forges an alliance with the ogres and sets off on a war of conquest against the elves. With the help of his evil wife, a priestess of a death-cult, Hotak has eliminated much of the opposition but a few bands of rebels remain. While his daughter serves in the war against the elves, Hotak trusts his younger son and heir to the task of wiping out resistance. His older son, Ardnor, serves his mother and secretly hates both his father and his brother for failing to make him heir.<br /><br />As part of his alliance with the ogres, Hotak handed over minotaur prisoners to work in the ogre mines. Faros, an escapee from one of those mines, decides to strike back. Despite himself, he begins to gather a group of followers, other minotaurs and others, who share his hatred for the ogre overlords. Meanwhile, the rebellion is slowly being crushed, and the elf forests, long protected by a magic shield, suddenly becomes vulnerable.<br /><br />TIDES OF BLOOD is largely the story of Faros. Made cynical by captivity first by his fellow minotaurs and then by the ogres, Faros doesn't want to trust anyone and certainly doesn't want responsibility. Yet responsibility is thrust on his shoulders as he becomes the one being who can stand against the ogres and their oppression. Author Richard A. Knaak makes Faros's attitude sympathetic, if frustrating.<br /><br />In NIGHT OF BLOOD (see our review), the earlier novel in the series, Hotak made a powerful and sympathetic figure. By now, Hotak retreats to a more minor and less emotionally compelling role. Similarly, the rebels who played an important part in NIGHT are now largely on the run.<br /><br />Knaak's writing is strong enough to sustain reader interest but I found TIDES less compelling than the excellent NIGHT. As the middle book in a series, TIDES suffers from having to pick up--and end--the story in the middle. Although weaker than NIGHT, the book grabbed my interest and hooked me. The ending serves as an exciting hook for the final novel in the trilogy--I can hardly wait.y interest and hooked me. The ending serves as an exciting hook for the final novel in the trilogy--I can hardly wait. <br />	2004-07-22
584058:US	49115690	ROGDLCYKDFBZ2	1590581091	164589709	Unforced Error (Rep & Melissa Pennyworth Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cute, literary, maybe a bit over the top	Intellectual property lawyer Rep Pennyworth figures he'll do just about anything to bring in a big-bucks client. He'll even spend a weekend as a civil war reenactor while he tries to decide whether the publisher really can trademark the idea of a faux civil war unit. He can't figure out how the publisher could make any money at it, but that isn't the lawyer's job and a hundred thousand bucks is real money. But when an editor ends up killed and Rep's friend Peter is the lead suspect, Rep realizes he's going to have to do more than dry lawyering--he'll have to figure out what really happened before Peter is sent to prison.<br />The dead man isn't exactly a saint--he had an affair with Peter's wife, for one thing--which gives Rep and his wife Melissa a cast of suspects. But the police like to follow the obvious, especially when Peter's civil war cavalry sabre tests positive for the dead man's DNA. Plenty of library research into civil war battles and Vichy France politics, as well as a scad of literary illusions add depth to the story as Melissa tries to decide which philosopher to use to advise her friend--finally to decide on Travis McGee (of John D. MacDonald fame) and Rep finally agrees to play Nick and Nora (of The Thin Man fame) with Melissa.<br />Author Michael Bowen dishes up plenty of plenty of literary illusions for fans of mystery and literature, a clever opening scene involving a potential affair and reality T.V. and some interesting looks into civil war reenacting. I thought that the final revelation into the badguy's ultimate plot was a bit over the top, but that didn't stop me from enjoying the adventure, the witty dialogue, or the way nerdy librarians, book editors, and intellectual property lawyers become action heros.	2004-07-19
584127:US	49115690	R1J7QMCAUVN2U	0778320359	90859722	The Ocean Between Us (Mira)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Deeply emotional tale of growth	While back-to-school shopping with her teenaged children, navy wife Grace Bennett catches a glimpse of herself in the mirror and doesn't like what she sees. She's nearing 40, has gained weight, and is still 'waiting' to get started with her life. Things she realizes are important, like getting a house, settling down, and developing a career of her own have been put on hold to let her devote herself to her family and to her husband, Navy Captain Steve Bennett's career. When she spots and falls in love with a beautiful home, she decides she can't take the waiting any longer.<br />Steve Bennett knows that his navy career puts strains on the family. Still, Grace knew that when she married him and it doesn't seem fair that she's changing the rules now. And a house is silly, really, as he'll be transferred again as he moves up the career ladder. He blows off Grace's concerns--until a long-buried secret from his past rears up and puts a tear in their already damaged relationship.<br />Steve and Grace's children are dealing with their own issues: their son is rebelling against his father's pressure to attend the Navy Academy; their older daughter is dealing with her new-found sexuality--and gets caught in a dangerous situation she can see no way out of; the younger daughter is the shy one--a curse in a family that moves every few years and must make new friends, new alliances whenever they do. The pressures military service puts on families are echoed in the problems and joys faced by Grace's circle of friends, especially her fitness coach Lauren, who has fallen for a young navy airman.<br />Author Susan Wiggs brings a strong emotional focus to the issues of the military spouse and woman's search for identity in a world still largely defined by men. Grace is a strong and sympathetic character, torn between her love for a man and her own need for autonomy, reinforced by her discovery that he has kept a secret from her throughout their marriage. Wiggs further hooks the reader by dealing with the issue of date-rape. Ultimately, the story is that of Grace's growth. She transforms herself from a woman who defines herself by her husband to a woman who can stand on her own feet--yet is strong enough to welcome a man into her arms if he is prepared to treat her as an equal rather than someone to whom orders can be given.<br />It took me a few chapters to get into this story but the payoff was definitely worth the investment. Wiggs demonstrates again why she is one of the top authors in romance/woman's fiction today.der by dealing with the issue of date-rape. Ultimately, the story is that of Grace's growth. She transforms herself from a woman who defines herself by her husband to a woman who can stand on her own feet--yet is strong enough to welcome a man into her arms if he is prepared to treat her as an equal rather than someone to whom orders can be given. <br />It took me a few chapters to get into this story but the payoff was definitely worth the investment. Wiggs demonstrates again why she is one of the top authors in romance/woman's fiction today.	2004-07-19
584332:US	49115690	RBZRA6JGMSG21	074348827X	494196717	The Hero	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Nice action, psychology after very slow start	After a busted mission, the mostly human Deep Reconnaissance Team stumbles across an ancient artifact--working technology from the vanished Aldenata aliens. The Captain plans on returning it to base, getting the bonus and commendations that come from such an important find--but a billion credits worth of alien technology is enough to tempt a saint and the DRT is definitely not made up of saints. When one member frags the others, the three survivors must battle it out for survival and for a chance at the billion credit prize. Unfortunately, none can trust either of the others and the stage is set for a brutal three-way battle to stay alive in a dangerous and enemy-occupied planet.<br />THE HERO starts painfully slowly, with history lectures, anti-environmental statements, and a military mission that wasn't really going anywhere. But in the second half, once the artifact is discovered and the true conflict begins, the pace picks up, characters have a chance to become fully defined, and the real story takes place.<br />Authors John Ringo and Michael Z. Williamson know their military and write convincingly of both military tactics and of the friction between front-line soldiers and the officers in the rear. The Bane Sidhe Elf (Darhel alien) adds interest with his combination of extreme physical skills and his inability to kill. The sociopathic human killer with a the superior sniper rifle, an eagerness to kill, and an unstoppable greed seems to have all of the advantages in the three-way struggle.<br />Although I wish that Ringo and Williamson had condensed the first hundred pages, the second half of the book definitely makes it worth reading. Ferret, the wounded soldier who must track down and kill both the elf and the killer makes a fascinating character and Tirdal the Elf, with his difficulties in causing violence definitely gives the story a twist.	2004-07-18
585446:US	49115690	R30BTX95T8HR8Y	0312289723	1827617	Ten Big Ones (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Great mix of action, humor, and romance	When she accidentally spots a robbery, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum becomes the target for a gang assassination plot. Being a target assures Stephanie that sometime boyfriend Joe Morelli will shift into protective mode and, since she insists on keeping her job, mean a fight. Still, Stephanie is a bounty hunter (although a sometimes incompetent one) and she resolves to go on with her mission despite Morelli's resistance. It doesn't help that super-bounty-hunter and occasional backup (and occasional love interest) Ranger is out of town.<br />With the help of ex-Ho Lulu, Stephanie manages to get her car explosion out of the way quickly, track down another naked bail jumper, deal with a woman who has an obsession for Frito-Lay products (an obsession that seems perfectly understandable to both Stephanie and Lulu), and her sister's suddenly planned wedding (with transvestite Sally Sweet as wedding planner and an eggplant-colored maid of honor dress). Still, staying ahead of a hard-core gang killer is going to take more than Stephanie's normal bungling.<br />Author Janet Evanovich mixes humor and adventure in another fun-filled Stephanie Plum story. I'm happy to see that, while she still gets into constant mishaps, Stephanie is becoming more competent as a bounty hunter, successfully apprehending at least one suspect without being zapped with a stun gun. The romantic triangle between Stephanie, Morelli, and Ranger continues to add sizzle but it seems that Morelli now has a big lead over his rival.<br />Evanovich provides a consistently high-quality read and TEN BIG ONES is no exception. I couldn't put it down and have no hesitation in recommending it.	2004-07-17
589088:US	49115690	R33CGC9GJKUNDD	0399151745	273244523	The Paid Companion (Quick, Amanda)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Unlikable characters, weak mystery	To help distract the 'ton' while he traces his uncle's killer, Earl Arthur St. Merryn decides he needs a fiancee. Since he's already had one fiancee--who fled down a ladder to avoid the marriage, St. Merryn decides to be more logical and hire a fiance through a service that provides paid companions. Elenora Lodge, recently disposessed of her home and most of her property, turns up at the agency just in time. St. Merryn decides that her spirit and enthusiasm would be a perfect match--and that Elenora could be just the actress to persuade society that she was St. Merryn's next fiancee.<br />Although St. Merryn initially intends to keep Elenora at the outskirts of his plans, she quickly asserts herself, forcing herself into his confidence and, soon enough, into his arms. Neither is particularly good at hiding the attraction they feel for one another although Elenora is convinced that, once the mystery is solved, St. Merryn will get on with her life and that Elenora will be forced to move on with her life. Tracking down the killer is a bit complicated, though, and the interval gives them plenty of time to explore the attraction--and for Elenora to dazzle polite society in Regency England.<br />Author Amanda Quick always writes a fast-paced and entertaining read and THE PAID COMPANION is no exception. That said, I found Elenora to be quite annoying with her complete lack of respect for St. Merryn's finances, her willingness to simply run over whatever ideas he proposed, and her constant jumping to conclusions when a simple conversation would have avoided the misunderstanding. By constantly giving in to Elenora, St. Merryn comes off as a bit of a wimp. The mystery portion of the book is really a non-starter as we are introduced to no suspects and no clues.<br />I wanted to like THE PAID COMPANION and Quick's writing is strong enough to keep me reading, but the unlikable characters and weak mystery plot definitely detracted.	2004-07-15
590895:US	49115690	R1SPHFV2ZPAMG6	0312271190	753868454	The Judgment of Caesar: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent historical thriller	When a storm blows his ship off course, Roman investigator Gordianus is captured by the one man who most hopes to see him dead--Pompey the Great. Before he can carry out his threats, however, Pompey himself is killed by the Egyptian king, Ptolemy and Gordianus makes his way to Alexandria just in time to see Julius Caesar taking control. Caesar intends to secure Egypt as a base, ensure that Pompey's allies cannot use it agaisnt him, and then move on but the conflict between Ptolemy and his sister/wife/rival, Cleopatra threatens Caesar's peace.<br />Cleopatra and Ptolemy both use every persuasion possible to encourage Caesar to chose them as the singular ruler of Egypt. In the course of this persuasion, Gordianus's estranged son, Meto, is accused as an attempted assassin and Gordianus realizes that he will lose his son forever if he doesn't do his best detecting ever. Unfortunately, if Meto isn't the poisoner, either Ptolemy or Cleopatra probably is--and Caesar is unwilling to allow either of them to be accused.<br />Author Steven Saylor spins a convincing and gripping tale of Egypt in the dying days of the Roman Republic. Egypt's wealth makes it a treasure that Rome must have, but its mysterious religions and its concepts of god-king make it anathema to republican Romans like Gordianus. Saylor deepens the mystery and the reader's emotional involvement in the story by making Gordianus a fascinating and complex character. His love for his wife (despite an affair), his torn feelings for Meto, and his wish for the republican virtues of a vanishing Rome engaged my sympathies and increased my investment in the story and in Gordianus finding a solution to what seemed an insolvable problem. Indeed, the actual Judgment of Caesar comes down to solving the unsolvable.<br />Saylor's strong writing and fascinating insights into history add to the book's appeal. THE JUDGMENT OF CAESAR is a winner.	2004-07-13
592775:US	49115690	R2U1CUE9LP64PU	0765301679	411086011	Ringworld's Children	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Wonderful world-building, weak story/characters	250-year-old Louis Wu awakens as a young-man after an extensive stay in a nanotechnology healing chamber to find that the situation on Ringworld is not good. Although the new protector, Tunesmith, is doing what he can to repair the damage Ringworld has suffered, too many societies have recognized Ringworld for the technological treasure-trove that it is. The worst part is, Ringworld doesn't actually need to survive to be looted of its treasure. And anti-matter weapons can quickly punch holes in the Ringworld that Tunesmith would be powerless to stop.<br />Louis involves himself in Tunesmith's secret plan, testing a space drive, checking on the status of Tunesmith's comet-hole repair system, and falling in love with an Earth-human whose fighter craft has penetrated Ringworld through a hole in its surface. He gets the chance to see even more of the mysteries of Ringworld, but he can see no way out of the war that is coming.<br />Author Larry Niven's Ringworld is a fascinating construction. A ribbon of super-strong material around a sun, Ringworld sports the surface area of a million earths--and is inhabited by a hugely diverging group of semi-humans along with a few aliens. Protectors, the final stage in 'human' development, work to benefit their decendents, but armed with limited information, have done too little to prevent war.<br />Fans of the Ringworld series will want to read this story, see the further adventures of Louis Wu, and see how Niven has dealt with the criticisms of his great creation, adding devices and details that make it more technologically possible. The world-building that went into Ringworld is first-class and the original Ringworld novel is a true classic of SF. Ringworld's Children is a far smaller book than the original masterpiece. The characters are not really fleshed out or motivated, and I found myself uninvolved with the story.<br />Fans of Ringworld will want to read this one for the latest on this fascinating more-than-world. If you aren't already a Ringworld fan, though, you'll definitely want to start with the original.u aren't already a Ringworld fan, though, you'll definitely want to start with the original.	2004-07-12
593238:US	49115690	RWRHH8UA7O44J	052594821X	89678523	The Hundredth Man	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Best mystery of the year	Carson Ryder single-handedly solved a complex serial-killer case as a patrolman and now is something of a wunderkind in the Mobile, Alabama, Police Department. He and his partner, Detective Harry Nautilus, head up the PSIT Squad-- psychopathological and Sociopathological Investigative Team, and they are supposed to have authority over any murders that show signs of, well, craziness. Unfortunately he has powerful enemies who see him as a threat and will do anything to undermine his success. So when another serial killer--one who beheads his male victims--comes on the scene, his worst enemy, the ambitious Captain Terrence Squill, does everything he can to prevent Ryder from solving the case or even having any authority to investigate it. But Ryder feels so strongly that he can solve it--and that Squill is on the wrong track, that he risks his career and his life to do so.<br />The fascinating, three-dimensional characters, the twists and turns of an authentically portrayed murder investigation, and the raw beauty of the Alabama landscape and coastal areas mix into a rich stew of a novel that is, at times, quite terrifying. Told in first person, we occasionally get to dip into the killer's mind. And while I've seen this technique used in many, many novels, seldom have I seen it used to such good effect. This is easily the best mystery-suspense novel I've read so far this year--and it's a first novel. I look forward to more.	2004-07-12
593609:US	49115690	R2PRF85GT2NH8V	0060081570	110205554	Fear and Other Uninvited Guests: Tackling the Anxiety, Fear, and Shame That Keep Us from Optimal Living and Loving	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Well written and interesting	Perhaps the easiest way to describe what this book is is to describe what it's not. It's not a step-by-step process that will change your life overnight (something I'm always looking for and failing to find--wonder why?). It's not full of tests for discovering whether fear is crippling you; there are no worksheets, no exercises, no quick fixes of any kind.<br />Instead, what this book offers is some insightful analysis into what causes anxiety, fear and shame, howthese uncomfortable &quot;guests&quot; manifest in our lives, and some suggestions for how we might use these sometimes painful emotions for self-discovery and, ultimately, become higher-functioning by learning to reduce or in some cases eliminate fear, anxiety and shame, or co-exist with them.<br />As I flew through this well-written, clear, and interesting text, I found myself recognizing situations from my own life, past and present, and from others' lives, and in some cases reaching a new understanding. I can't say the book changed anything about my particular life in any dramatic fashion, but it is interesting reading for anyone who seeks clarity about the craziness going on in his life.	2004-07-12
594801:US	49115690	RACX5ZTIPULR1	0312318073	279561448	Murder Is Academic: A Cambridge Mystery	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Promising first book	When her department head is found dead, Cambridge professor Cassandra James gets tapped as acting head--in a department that seems doomed to be eliminated. Only if she can get her fellow professors to start producing publishable material can she keep her job and theirs. With one of them getting messages from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and another completely avoiding her, things don't look promising. But when one of her students is assaulted, she realizes that there have been three suspicious 'accidents' in one very small department.<br />Cassandra's investigations are limited by her increasing pregnancy. Still, she finally involves the police, alerting them to a lesbian affair between the first student found dead and the dead department head. But the police have lots on their plate and no obvious suspects come to mind. They do warn Cassandra, however, to be careful. Three suspicious deaths in one department should be a clear warning to the new department head.<br />New author Christine Poulson writes convincingly of the politics and personalities of a college. Whether in England or America, publishing, getting the college name out, and playing politics matter far more than excellence in teaching. Where MURDER IS ACADEMIC fell short, however, was in the mystery itself. Cassandra spent more time cowering in terror than actually investigating. She simply ignored the most obvious clue until the very end of the book, got most of her information from dreams, and finally had the killer's identity handed to her. I enjoyed Poulson's writing style and hope that she'll focus on the mystery in her next mystery.	2004-07-11
597301:US	49115690	R10H3S7242SGCE	0756401836	474978429	Smoke and Shadows	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Enjoyable light read	Production Assistant Tony Foster has noticed the shadows--the ones that don't seem to quite reflect the movement of the solid objects around them. Because he's ex-lover and still friend of a vampire, Tony doesn't automatically dismiss the idea that there's somethings seriously wrong going on. Still, an invasion by a 'shadowlord' who has already destroyed one world and is intent on our own, seems a bit over the top. The sole survivor of that conquered world, a wizard in the guise of a middle-aged special effects guru, refuses to involve herself in the losing battle to defend earth against the shadowlord's new invasion. Which leaves Tony and his vampire-friend Henry to face the shadows themselves.<br />Both Tony and, while it's dark out, at least, Henry can be persuasive and they manage to get some help from the reluctant solitaire-playing wizard, but the shadowlord is gathering power with each opening of the gate between their worlds, learning more about the people who live here and our ability to defend against his power--and about the ability of our technology to shed shadows in places even the shadowlord had never considered. Tony's attempt to prevent any shadows from returning to the shadowlord seems like a long-shot, but even the wizard doesn't guess the shadowlord's response.<br />Setting an occult mystery on the set of a vampire-detective television show is a cute concept and Tony's clever use of light, pattern and darkness in his battle against the shadows adds a nice touch to this contemporary fantasy. Author Tanya Huff's craftman-like writing kept the story moving forward as Tony, with occasional assistance from the wizard and the vampire, tried to stay ahead of the shadows. Still, I found myself waiting for the twist--the ah-ha moment when Huff turned around the story and surprised me with something new. Instead, she seemed to settle for cute.<br />SMOKE AND SHADOWS is an enjoyable light story. If you're a fan of vampires, gay fiction, and humor, the book makes a pleasant read.ok makes a pleasant read.	2004-07-09
601813:US	49115690	R1WXHACJTLOVKT	0786713062	10520789	Death of an Old Master: A Murder Mystery Featuring Lord Francis Powerscourt	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very nice historical mystery	Victoria still reigns, the Boors are making ugly war on the British Empire in southern Africa, and American millionaires are flocking to Europe to pick up culture--including the old masters. One enterprising art dealer specializes in serving the needs of the Americans--whether this means locating great art, or creating it on demand. It's all very civilized in a way, and even similar to the way that many British manors were stuffed with ersatz 'old masters' from centuries of trips to the continent. But the murder of an art critic throws the entire business into turmoil.<br />Investigator Lord Francis Powerscourt interveins when his wife reminds him that the victim is something of a cousin (Powerscourt believes that half of English society is a cousin of some sort to his wife). The case looks clearcut--the dead man had been having an affair with a married woman whose husband had recently learned of the affair and was not happy about it. But Powerscourt doesn't trust any case that looks too obvious and he finds other motives--motives involving money and great art.<br />Author David Dickinson writes convincingly of English 'society' near the end of the 19th century. British nobles are finding their ancestral homes to be expensive monstrosities that they still must maintain, manners remain critical, and a woman can be ruined by scandal--but both men and women still seek out adventure in their lives. Powerscourt is a well developed and sympathetic character--often lost in the case but never too busy to make time for his wife (and occasional co-investigator) and children. Dickinson doesn't look beneath the upper crust of English society, but even that upper crust is pretty rotten.<br />Dickinson throws out a number of red herings, sends Powerscourt through England and even to Corsica, and gives the reader enough interest in art and art forgery to make for a fascinating read.	2004-07-06
602326:US	49115690	R1RGR958DYYJ2Q	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Maybe the best Sookie yet	With her vampire ex-boyfriend heading out of town, Sookie Stackhouse looks forward to more peaceful (and lonely) times in small-town Louisianna. But when her brother starts dating a shape-shifter and hunky vampire Sheriff, Eric loses his memory and Sookie finds him running naked near her house, she realizes that the times will be anything but peaceful. With his memory intact, Eric was a jerk but he's sort of sweet without it--and Sookie has a hard time fighting the attraction. Still, she's made a new year's resolution--no more getting beat up. And if she hangs with Eric and the other vampires, she knows she's going to get hurt.<br />When her brother turns up missing, though, Sookie realizes that she can't just lay low. And with witches trying to take over nearby Shreveport (where Eric is from), it doesn't take long before she's in the middle of the fight of her life. There is one bit of good news. Despite a great figure and good looks, Sookie's mind-reading always scared away the normal males. But as she meets shifters, witches, vampires, and even a fairy, there are plenty of non-human and half-human males who find Sookie just what they are looking for--assuming she can survive long enough to create a relationship.<br />Author Charlaine Harris mixes up humor, suspense, magic, and a really nice character in Sookie Stackhouse for an especially strong entry into her Southern Vampire series. In a world where amoral vampires and amoral humans wage war for control, Sookie provides an ethical perspective and a bit of balance. Her concern for her missing brother and her ambivalent feelings toward Eric increase reader empathy with Sookie and our stakes in the outcome.<br />I've enjoyed each of the Southern Vampire novels but DEAD TO THE WORLD may just be the best.	2004-07-05
603712:US	49115690	RGNDIS5OSUV5S	0345463269	118965360	Loaded Dice (Swain, James)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good but not the best Tony Valentine	Ex-cop and private investigator Tony Valentine is in Las Vegas checking up on the latest gambling scams. He finds plenty of crooks and con-men working their trade, but something more serious is going on. Tony becomes a suspect in the murder of a stripper, his home back in Florida is invaded by FBI agents who think that the Patriot Act allows them to enter homes without a search warrant, and his son disappears from sight. First, Tony has to save his friend's casino which is under attack from a career criminal who just may be working with the FBI, then he has to deal with a middle eastern terrorist threat.<br />Author James Swain is at his best when he's dealing with the fascinating world of professional gambling and the eternal war between cheaters and the professionals who try to stop them. Aging ex-cop Valentine, with his problems with his son and his conflicted feelings about women makes an intriguing hero. For me, though, LOADED DICE felt like two books mashed together. On the one hand, we have the fascinating problem of Nick Nicocropolis and his casino under attack. On the other, a superhero vs. the evil terrorist subplot. Either one could have worked. By putting them both in a relatively short mystery, Swain ended up shortcharging both of them.<br />Swain's strong writing and the information about gambling, cheating, and catching crooks definitely makes LOADED DICE worth reading. For me, though, this is not the strongest of the very nice Tony Valentine series.	2004-07-04
605289:US	49115690	R1IXDDB6570TSE	0312307918	440808084	Murder on the Marmora: A Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best yet in good series	After several voyages with the famous Cunard line, cruise ship detectives George Dillman and Genevieve Masefield take a job with a competitor--P&amp;O in a cruise from England to Australia by way of Egypt and the Suez Canal. Unlike their experience with Cunard, however, they find the Pursor unhelpful and even antagonistic. He assures them that his nose for trouble is all that is needed to keep his ship clean. Unfortunately, several robberies prove him wrong. When one of their suspects is murdered, Genevieve and George know that they need to move quickly in able to prove their worth, but the crimes are so skillful, without any evidence of tampering with the cabin locks, that they realize they are dealing with a professional.<br />George and Genevieve work together to determine who could have known about any valuables hidden in cabins, clear alibis, and deal with the personalities on board the ship--a difficulty compounded by Genevieve's ex-fiance now on board as a newlywed but still interested in Genevieve, and the young woman who quickly falls for George.<br />MURDER ON THE MARMORA is the fifth in author Conrad Allen's George Dillman/Genevieve Masefield historical mystery series and the strongest to date. Allen added more dimension to his characters while maintaining the entertaining mystery and strong period atmosphere of his earlier mysteries. Allen sets his stories in the glory days of the cruise industry before World War I--a period when manners mattered, dress was formal, and progress seemed certain.	2004-07-03
609104:US	49115690	RK9XNLCJKWRY8	1590581121	180924800	Five for Silver:  A John the Eunuch Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great sense of place in fine historical mystery series	A plague is ripping through Constantinople during the reign of Justinian at the very beginning of the Byzantine Empire. So many people are dying that the Emperor has commissioned ships to be filled with bodies, towed to the harbor, and set ablaze. With so many dead, one more wouldn't seem to be a big deal. But John the Eunuch, Lord Chamberland to the Emperor, feels compelled to search for the killer of one man--a longtime friend and former soldier comrad of Peter, John's cook. According to Peter, an angel came, demanding vengence. While John follows Mithra rather than Christianity, he owes his faithful servant the investigation.<br />In a city being emptied by plague and people fleeing the plague, it's hard to find witnesses but John establishes a possible connection. Gregory, the dead man, had recently witnessed a will. When other witnesses also turn up dead, it seems that John is onto something--but what.<br />Authors Mary Reed and John Mayer do a wonderful job depicting what was then the greatest and most powerful city in the world. The holy fool, the aspiring poets, the politically savvy and dangerous Empress Theodora, and especially John the Eunuch and his family really come to life.<br />Reed and Mayer use the mosaic metaphor several times in their book and, in fact, present a bit of a mosaic of Constantinople. Not all of the crimes that John uncovers are connected to one another, but they are connected to the extended family that John has built in the new Rome. FIVE FOR SILVER is therefore a very personal story.<br />John the Eunuch is one of the most entertaining of the historical mystery series being written today. If you haven't discovered it yet, you're in for a treat.	2004-06-30
611330:US	49115690	R210ELATMOUYZ5	0743474945	92494654	Roger Zelazny's Chaos and Amber (Dawn of Amber)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Plenty of information for us Amber Fans--but not Zelazny	After escaping an attack that nearly destroyed his family, Oberon wakes up in a near-shadow to Chaos. By the time he has fully recovered consciousness, his father has left for an audience with the king of Chaos and Oberon is left in the care of his brother, Aber. Oberon's magical talents are still developing but he knows that he has to do something--before the evil mage who holds one of his brothers captive destroys their family and all of their dreams.<br />Hunkered down together in a family palace, Oberon and Aber discuss family, demons, responses to the threat, and a bit of the history of Chaos and Shadows. Because the shadows are a relatively recent event. Although Chaos always cast shadows, these had been few and faint until a strange storm hit Chaos--and Oberon's father has been implicated in the storm and in the creation of shadows. Since the shadows appear to drain much of the magical energy from Chaos, Oberon's father is a distinctly unpopular man.<br />Roger Zelazny's original Amber series, especially the opening book, NINE PRINCES IN AMBER is a classic and author John Gregory Bethancourt's prequel series is an enjoyable addition to the universe which Zelazny created. But although Bethancourt introduces plenty of information and tells the story of leading to the creation of the great maze of Amber itself, for my tastes, CHAOS AND AMBER was too much talking and not enough action. More than half the book took place in a family palace inhabited by Oberon, Aber, assorted servants, and a door. In the second half, when things actually started to happen, Oberon was too much an observer rather than an actor.<br />True Amber fans will want to add this to their collection. If you aren't an Amber fan, you'll definitely want to start with the Zelazny originals.	2004-06-28
613350:US	49115690	RIFNNT0C37R63	006019877X	576504477	Playing with Fire: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Good mix of story and character	When two abandoned river barges catch fire, killing two squatters, the signs point to arson. Detective Chief Inspector Alan Banks and sidekick Detective Investigator Annie Cabbot realize that their plans for getting away with their current love interests are shot--they'll be working overtime to track down the firebug--unless the fires were set for a reason more sinister than simply to see things burn. Suspicion first turns to the boyfriend of one of the victims--conveniently absent during the fire. But the young man doesn't feel right to Banks. Could it be the girl's step-father--a man suspected of sexually abusing the girl?<br />A second fire two nights later gives Banks and Cabbot another line to pursue--one that centers around art forgery. Because it is just possible that someone is cleaning up a mess--or a criminal network that has turned on him. Fortunately, Cabbot's boyfriend is an art professional. Unfortunately, Banks doesn't like the handsome boyfriend and the result is friction between two cops who have to work together closely.<br />Author Peter Robinson does a fine job developing characters and story simultaneously. Banks, with his recently ended marriage, his unsuccessful affair with Cabbot, and his current go-nowhere relationship with an out-of-town cop, remains sympathetic as he tries to track down the criminal--and to keep his feelings toward Cabbot's lover from veering into jealousy. Detours into the point of view of the young man initially suspected of arson add to the story's atmosphere.<br />I thought that the solution became a bit too obvious a bit too soon--and some of Banks' decisions seemed irrational, but overall, PLAYING WITH FIRE was an engrossing and enjoyable read.	2004-06-27
616403:US	49115690	R3Q1XUT8FFQDSV	0060083255	879661551	Ties That Bind	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exciting conspiracy theory action	Since she was kidnapped and tortured on an earlier case, lawyer Amanda Jaffe has lived with flashbacks and panic--to the point where she's considering abandoning her career in criminal law. Being a court-appointed attorney to a pimp accused of murdering a senator and his lawyer is close to Amanda's ultimate nightmare. But as she investigates, she starts to wonder if some horrible miscarriage of justice might not be taking place.<br />Prosecuting attorney Tim Kerrigan should be happy. He's got a beautiful wife, a wonderful daughter, a Heisman trophy, and a father and friends pushing him for more--like becoming U.S. Senator and eventually even President. Tim has a problem with his self-worth, but his powerful friends are willing to make accomodations--and push him as far as he wants to go. But first, he's got to secure what should be an easy conviction in a death penalty case. Of course, there is the little matter of the blackmailing prostitute.<br />As Tim and Amanda explore the case they share, each begins to learn that there are powerful currents hidden beneath the surface. Amanda picks up vague hints of some sort of cabel--the rich and powerful take care of themselves and others, and stop at nothing to preserve their power. They might even have sent a lawyer to kill his own client--the man who is now her client. But if they are that powerful and that willing to kill, is her own life safe--or has she stepped into her worst nightmare?<br />Author Phillip Margolin writes a fast-paced and tight thriller. Although the paperback version is four hundred pages long, I tore through the book in a single afternoon, devouring the story as quickly as I could. The powerful cabel, the fears of the primary protagonists, and their feeling of helplessness they learned that the cabel's reach is long indeed added power to the story. I did have some problems with the characters--both Amanda and especially Tim whined a bit much for my taste, but Margolin's powerful writing kept them from becoming completely unsympathetic. One horrible editing error--where Tim's wife first reports that Tim is alive and then claims that she doesn't know whether he is alive or not did jar me out of the story, but not for long.<br />If you like conspiracy-theory types of stories, you won't go wrong with TIES THAT BIND.from becoming completely unsympathetic. One horrible editing error--where Tim's wife first reports that Tim is alive and then claims that she doesn't know whether he is alive or not did jar me out of the story, but not for long. <br />If you like conspiracy-theory types of stories, you won't go wrong with TIES THAT BIND.	2004-06-24
618140:US	49115690	RBENGMC489ESX	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Pow! Hits you between the eyes.	When a crazy scheme to rob Chinese peasants of their silk harvest leaves the village children poisoned, Lu Yu, known as Number Ten Ox sets off on a journey to find a cure. Most of the wise men in Peking refuse to help him for what the village can afford, but one sage, Li Kao, agrees to help. Li Kao recognizes the problem but the cure is a different matter--and sets Ten Ox and Li Kao in an epic journey that pits them against monsters, a money-hungry Duke, and an ancient legend of Ginsen and Gods.<br />BRIDGE OF BIRDS was author Barry Hughart's first novel and it does start a bit slowly. Once it gets going, however, it becomes a fascinating adventure, a humorous story, and a thoughtful look at humanity and human obsession. It took me days to get through this book, not because it isn't interesting, but because it is so full. It took me a bit of recovery time to launch myself into the next adventure. By the way, there's also a bit of a mystery. See if you can figure it out before Li Kao and Ten Ox.<br />Hughart creates a different kind of fantasy. The protagonists aren't powerful warriors, but a peasant and an alcoholic sage. Their quest doesn't start out as saving the world from evil, but saving some children from the evil acts of a couple of misers. But the book's subtle power sucked me in, made me care about the characters and the story, and made me think that I was actually seeing something about the world for the first time.<br />Too heavy? Okay, the book is also a laugh. It's a series of unfortunate events in an adult style. I like this book a lot.	2004-06-23
623081:US	49115690	R9ADRMMXJJPJR	1594140286	756320611	Five Star First Edition Mystery - No Murder Before Its Time (Esbeth Walters Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Terrifically Texan	Win Castle has pitted his sons against each other to determine who will take over management of the family's Texas wine business and ranch. Whether it's hunting boar with only a knife or catching sharks, Win pushs them to go further, to take risks. But when his trials are over and he's decided on his successor, he never expects that the winner will be murdered. Nobody much regrets the death of Chaz Castle--the man was a menace to himself and everyone around him. But that only means more suspects for the Texas Rangers and for spunky retired school teacher, winery tour guide, and amateur detective Esbeth Walters. Making things tougher, Win does his best to confuse the case.<br />Texas Ranger Tillis Macrory has the best conviction record in the Rangers, but he's not too proud to take help where he can get it--and he suspects that Esbeth can help him if she wants. She knows the Castle family, the dynamics within the winery, and the romances that spring up among the Castles and the employees. Even if Esbeth does insist on treating him like a student rather than a law enforcement professional, Tillis sticks it out. Because Esbeth's insights just might be the only thing that will let him cut through the smokescreen that Win is laying and discover the truth.<br />Author Russ Hall has a terrific ear for the language and manerisms of rural Texas. Expressions like 'meaner than turkey turd beer,' and loonier than the Saturday morning cartoons' are sure to bring a smile--and a nod of recognition. Another nod of recognition goes to Esbeth herself--a carefully drawn character who would be at home anywhere in Texas, sorting things out, protecting her pride, and knowing just a bit more than anyone else. Wine buffs will also enjoy the detailed look at Texas winemaking--and the antics involved in winery tours.<br />Most of the first half of the novel set the stage for the first murder--but events happen quickly after the Castle family returns from a wedding trip to Belize--with the succession decided and tempers hot. NO MURDER BEFORE ITS TIME is an enjoyable read.succession decided and tempers hot. NO MURDER BEFORE ITS TIME is an enjoyable read.	2004-06-19
624752:US	49115690	R376DQ21LHHLJ2	0142003492	752240880	The Snack Thief (Inspector Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Best in a great series	Inspector Montalbano has two cases competing for his attention. In one, an Italian fishing boat was fired upon by a Tunisian gunboat, killing a fisherman. In the second, a retired man was found murdered in his apartment elevator. As Montalbano investigates (without missing a single meal), he discovers a bizarre connection between the deaths--a connection that includes the ever-present official corruption Sicily suffers from and that ties into all of Montalbano's hidden issues.<br />With his usual style (apparently bumbling but barely hiding a sharp wit), Montalbano is able to 'solve' the mysteries. But knowing the answer and bringing some sort of justice are very different things. Montalbano has to dig deep into his bag of tricks to pull out a solution that satisfies his own peculiar sense of morality. Worse, from his perspective, it isn't only himself involved. A little boy and Montalbano's longtime lover, Livia are also at risk.<br />Author Andrea Camilleri's Inspector Montalbano series combines humor, solid sleuthing; a wonderful view of small town life in Sicily that is alien but fascinating to most of its readers, and charming to everyone; with compelling social commentary. Although the setting is in Italy, the issues that Montalbano faces are universal.<br />I have enjoyed the entire Inspector Montalbano series but so far, THE SNACK THIEF is the most powerful of a very strong series. Well done, Andrea Camilleri.	2004-06-18
625601:US	49115690	RB1BFRDF865ZG	0727860399	358773730	King's Spies, The: An 11th century mystery (A Geoffrey Mappestone Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining historical mystery	When King Henry I calls him home from the First Crusade, Sir Geoffrey Mappestone knows the result can only be trouble. Henry doesn't especially like Geoffrey, but he does have some control over him--because of Geoffrey's English estates. What Henry demands is that Geoffrey infiltrate an enemy Earl's camp and ensure the destruction of his fortress. Since Earl Robert de Belleme already hates Geoffrey, this isn't an easy task. And the task is made that much tougher when Geoffrey comes across Belleme's nephew--recently hung to death--and becomes a suspect in the murder himself.<br />Belleme has heard of Geoffrey's sleuthing abilities, though, and gives him a week to find the true killer. Of course, Geoffrey has to stay alive for that week first, and things look increasingly dicey as the reign of murder continues.<br />Author Simon Beaufort explores a fascinating historical period--when Normans and Saxons still jostled in England, when the Crusades were at their very beginning when all things seemed possible, when magic was a very real force, and when the English crown rested uneasily between Henry and his older brother, the Duke of Normandy. Beaufort dresses up his story with Greek fire, female knights, a gay squire, Geoffrey's loyal but not-so-bright friend Roger, and Belleme's beautiful but dangerous sisters.<br />Fans of medieval historical action and of historical mystery are certain to enjoy this well written story.	2004-06-17
625663:US	49115690	R2W0V9FKT6V0PU	0312331487	664962873	Blood on the Wood (Nell Bray Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming early 20th century-set mystery	It started with a painting. When a dying suffragette leaves a painting to the 'movement,' activist Nell Bray is sent down to the Cotswolds in rural England to pick it up. The suffragette's family tries to foist off a counterfeit and Nell end up cast into an adventure that starts with a plot to steal the real painting--and ends up with broken engagements and murder. Everyone in the Venn family seems to be hiding something. At first, Nell is willing to believe that they are simply trying to protect the fiancee--but could their motives be darker? Could her revolutionary acquaintance, Harry Hawthorne be right that the family was willing to kill to protect their property--and kill again if necessary?<br />Set in the early twentieth century when woman's suffrage is still a distant hope, when revolutionary socialists are filled with hope for the worker's utopia, and when women still need to be concerned about their social standing and their chances of being 'ruined,' BLOOD ON THE WOOD is a strangely powerful mystery. Nell Bray is an entertainingly complex character--hard-working for suffrage but realistic enough to know that it will take time and compromise. Her moral dilemma over how much to tell the police rings true. Author Gillian Linscott does a fine job depicting those turbulant times and the characters who lived through them. The suspects--song-hunting dilitante, Daniel; widower Oliver; jilted fiancee Felicia; and too-clever lawyer Adam are all worth looking at--all have motives, all could have benefitted through murder.<br />If you're looking for a cerebrial mystery with a charming early-twentieth century setting, BLOOD ON THE WOOD is a can't miss opportunity. I enjoyed this one a lot.	2004-06-17
628650:US	49115690	RR4Q5OI9DBGRM	0312848781	260817533	The Silent War: Book III of The Asteroid Wars	Books	3	3	5	N	N	1st class action and world-building but weak characters	The conflict between Pancho Lane and her Astro Corporation and Martin Humphries of Humphries Space Systems has always been ruthless, but now the two find themselves pushed beyond competion into outright war. As corporations, both Astron and Humphries depend on profit and loss--but the old antagonism between the two leaders, and the secret manipulations of the Japanese consortium, Yamagata Corporation. Corporate warfare means mercenaries, armed spaceships, blockades, and convoys, as well as innovative use of weapons as modern as nanotechnology and as ancient as assassination. With neither Pancho nor Humphries prepared to back down, and neither willing to listen to reason, the war threatens to spill out of control.<br />Author Ben Bova is at his strongest when he deals with the near-future universe in which THE ASTEROID WARS is set. Earth, beset by global warming and the floods caused by melting icecaps, is in desperate need of the metals, energy, and complex manufacturing that can only take place in space. Humphries and Astro were the early developers of commercial space technologies. For decades, the two companies have been butting heads, yet the two occasionally cooperate as well. Yet Earth is hardly grateful for their efforts and much of what modern science offers is outlawed on the planet itself. Bova's descriptions of space travel, nanotechnology, and the economics of solar system exploration and exploitation all ring true.<br />Bova is weaker when it comes to characters. Humphries is almost completely one-dimensional. He is interested in himself, period. Even his wife, purchased at great sacrifice, ultimately means nothing to him. Pancho is little better--and in THE SILENT WAR, she has become almost Humphries' mirror rather than a real alternative. The Yamagata family shows promise, but quickly descends into evil, plotting the destruction of both Astro and Humphries without a good explanation on why this is the most efficient way to expand Yamagata influence.<br />Although I wish that Bova would give his characters more life and a fundamental story question to help them through the novel, the modern world-building and the old-fashioned space opera action keeps me coming back to this series and to Bova.<br />Although I wish that Bova would give his characters more life and a fundamental story question to help them through the novel, the modern world-building and the old-fashioned space opera action keeps me coming back to this series and to Bova.	2004-06-15
632611:US	49115690	R1AOV24ZZ0O0Z0	0060560851	697062135	Lazybones	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Frustrations and grunt-work of modern police	Detective Inspector Tom Thorne and his Serious Crimes unit gets called in when a recently released rapist is found murdered--and raped. There are plenty of leads--at first--but all dry up leaving Thorne with little but busy-work. But when another convicted rapist is also found murdered, with the same method, it starts to look like a serial killer is at work. The only thing is, half of the police force, and more than half of the population of London, thinks that the killer just may be a hero. Thorne doesn't think about heros, though. He thinks about doing his job--and finding a bit of distraction that doesn't include his Alzheimer-suffering father.<br />Author Mark Billingham does an excellent job portraying the frustrations and methodical grunt-work of a modern police force. Each of the cops involved in the case has their own issues--Thorne is afraid to commit to his growing relationship with a girlfriend, another struggles with his wife's pregnancy and the changes that is making in their life while another finds new meaning when she is called back to work on cold cases. Waiting for lucky breaks, shaking down informants, and hunting for long-lost data takes up much of their time.<br />Billingham reveals the evidence slowly, letting the reader know a bit more than any of the detectives involved, but teasing us with what we don't know as well. His strong writing hooked me as a reader and drove me through the book.	2004-06-12
634642:US	49115690	R1V0232W2YWLIO	0743488210	383141102	Wind Rider's Oath (The Oath of Swords)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Strong story-telling adventure	Bahzell Bahnakson is the first hradani to be Champion of the war-god Tomanak, which means that he's stuck righting wrongs, fighting evil, and generally carrying on even if the people he's helping don't like him. And they really don't like him. After a thousand years of war, the Sothoii hate anything having to do with the hradani--and there's a sizable segment of the court who will do just about anything to stir up trouble and end the pesky peace that threatens to break out between Sothoii and the hradani. The dark gods, always looking for an angle, are happy to take the opportunity Bahzell's opponents give them. With luck, they'll be able to eliminate Bahzell and his fellow champion, Kaeritha (the only female Champion of Tomanak in maybe forever). Their first step is the slaughter of a courser (horse-evolved but with human intelligence creatures) herd--and stealing the power that this gives them.<br />WIND RIDERS OATH switches back and forth between two simultaneous plots launched by the dark gods. In one, they attempt to undermine the peace--and Baron Tellian Bowmaster--along with the coursers under his domain. In the other, they stir up hostility between the unpopular War Maids (women who have fled to free cities where they are no longer subject to Sothoii's parernalistic legal structure) and the conservative nobility. Success in either plot would cast Sothoii back to its 'times of trouble.' Success in both would be a major victory for the dark gods.<br />Author David Weber continues his fantasy series with a strong adventure. Bahzell is a charmingly 'human' champion of his god--a champion who sometimes resists the god's orders and who certainly follows them in his own way. The coursers are only a part of the strong world-building that Weber brings to this series.<br />Weber is a story-teller rather than an 'author,' and he occasionally gets bogged down in boring conversations where characters chat things out, explain what they are going to do to one another, and generally kill the action. As with many of Weber's books, a hundred pages of trimming would have made the story stronger. Still, when Weber gets down to action, he's hard to beat. The second half of this story, in particular, was a rolicking adventure that kept me turning the pages.<br />As with many recent Baen hardbacks, a CD-ROM, containing the full text to dozens of novels including the earlier books in this series and Weber's Honor Harrington series, dramatically enhances the value of the package.nd generally kill the action. As with many of Weber's books, a hundred pages of trimming would have made the story stronger. Still, when Weber gets down to action, he's hard to beat. The second half of this story, in particular, was a rolicking adventure that kept me turning the pages. <br />As with many recent Baen hardbacks, a CD-ROM, containing the full text to dozens of novels including the earlier books in this series and Weber's Honor Harrington series, dramatically enhances the value of the package.	2004-06-10
636131:US	49115690	R257TF1WE0KMIL	0312313128	806687612	Murder by Design: A Rick Domino Mystery (Rick Domino Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Funny and charming--Terry tries to get Rick on track	Gay gossip columnist Rick Domino feels the need for a new design for his living room--but his budget is a bit short. When his boss comes up with the idea of Rick's living room being a venue for the popular do-it-yourself cable show, My House, Your House, Rick agrees--assuming he can specify the designers, his partner, and the other home to be designed. Instead, he gets a bit of a nightmare--a designer whose central idea is crochet. But at least 'Aunt Fern' doesn't believe in pulling up the hardwoods or turning a home into a prison and that's what the other designer, beautiful Helena Godiva has in mind for Rick's friend, recently out-of-the-closet police detective Terry Zane.<br />When Helena Godiva is found murdered and Terry's cousin, Ann-Margaret, is the chief suspect. Rick and Terry decide they need to clear Ann-Margaret's name and, with luck, get Rick some great insider gossip and Terry a conviction credit with the LAPD. Pretty clearly, the killer has something to do with the show. Even more clearly, the two men discover as they investigate, just about everyone has good reason to have killed Helena. She had slept with the women's fiances, threatened to out the gay men, exposed embarassing secrets, and generally been a hateful witch. Even Ann-Margaret has a motive despite Rick and Terry's moral certainty that she is innocent. But with such a wealth of suspects, how can they track down the actual killer?<br />Author Jon P. Bloch develops charming characters in the cynical Rick and the straight-arrow Terry. Rick (first person protagonist) can be critical of everyone (except himself), which can be offputting until you realize that this simply reflects his personality. Terry proves an effective foil, reminding Rick that there is more to life than empty perfection--and why not have a television in the living room anyway. Bloch's examination of the gay lifestyle in Los Angeles rings true--although the complete lack of worthwhile straight guys is a bit disconcerting.<br />MURDER BY DESIGN pokes fun at the nations fascination with design makeover shows and provides a charming mystery as well. Nicely done.<br />MURDER BY DESIGN pokes fun at the nations fascination with design makeover shows and provides a charming mystery as well. Nicely done.	2004-06-09
637020:US	49115690	R9QS4IYAIR4KO	0595300855	852164963	Face of a Stranger	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Well written with nicely integrated worldbuilding	Student Maric Sevillus lives as ward to dictator Eric Sheel--and does everything he can to embarass the man. Sheel is a hero, of sorts. His efforts twenty years previously headed off a dome collapse. But since then, he has become ruthless in preserving his power, taking advantage of a group of people with natural antibodies to a horrible Smart DNA disease. Sheel discovers that Maric's mind holds an encrypted message from his father--a scientist who may have discovered the cure to the SDNA disease--and will do anything to learn Maric's secret.<br />Maric has discovered a horrible fascination for the 20th century--and starts to suffer from frequent nightmares. Sheel believes that the fascination is more than a student interest. The dreams may hold clues to the encrypted memory--a memory that even Mars's best psychologist was unable to discover. Sheel is prepared to let Maric discover the truth in his own time, but when Maric develops an interest in a fellow student--a woman heading back to Earth--Sheel feels compelled to push harder.<br />Author Dan Roentsch delivers a well-crafted and interesting first novel. Both the science and society of this future Mars settlement are convincing. I was impressed by the quality of the editing--many iPublish books have editing problems but FACE OF A STRANGER was clean. People looking for a coming of age story with a young man forced to come to face with his own weaknesses and overcome them won't go wrong picking this story.	2004-06-08
639812:US	49115690	RE3I5Z88ZTAWY	0312324928	52263761	Southern Fried	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Tasty southern treat	After flipping out during a trial when her own witness was lying to help her case, lawyer Avery Andrews is jobless and back home in small town South Carolina. There she finds a number of cases including possible environmental polution, a man who admits to murder to be with her, a husband suspected in the long-ago death of his wife, and a woman who wants to sue a historian over his unflattering portrayal of a civil war spy. It isn't want Avery went to law school to do, expecially when the one client with money's wife accuses her of ruining his life and fires her.<br />Avery pushes after most of the cases (although she does her best to avoid the civil war lawsuit), but bad things seem to keep happening--the dead body in the lake, arson at the furniture factory, the EPA searching for a toxic waste dump, and poor lovelorn Donlee Griggs coming up with another attention-attracting device involving death or bodily harm.<br />In any small town, especially in small southern towns, gossip and long-remembered affairs and misbehaving play a role. The grapevine becomes a central source of clues and red herrings as Avery continues to look into building a legal practice in Dacus, South Carolina--the town she left when she went away to college and never even considered returning to until now.<br />Author Cathy Pickens offers up a charming and funny treat in SOUTHERN FRIED. If you enjoy a combination of humor, wacky anecdotes, and 'cozy' mystery solving, FRIED will definitely please your palate.	2004-06-06
641485:US	49115690	R13FOIBC34VJ0U	0765309866	944061381	Medalon: Book One of the Hythrun Chronicles	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nice world-building and well written	R'shiel, trainee in the Sisterhood of the Blade, hates her ambitious mother--but even she doesn't suspect that her mother will overthrow the legal leader and take on that role herself. when R'shiel and her brother, Tarja are forced to flee, they have to question all that they've been taught--and all that the sisterhood has stood for. Because the sisterhood exists to stomp out beliefs in the demons and gods of the world--and R'shiel just may be the long-expected child of demons--a part of the race of beings that stands between the gods and humans.<br />The officially atheistic nation of Medalon is surrounded by potential enemies. To the North, the Karien follow the 'overlord.' The overlord hates the atheists of Medalon, but he hates the demons of Hythria worse and has made peace with Medalon for centuries based on the promise to keep paganism under control. But peasant beliefs are hard to contain and Karien just may invade at any time--especially if they learn that the demon child is in Medalon--and has been bred by the gods specifically to kill their god. To the south, the Hythria worship the gods and demons that Medalon threw out--and that many of the poor and farmers still follow. When civil war threatens Medalon, the nation becomes a tinderbox.<br />Author Jennifer Fallon designs an intriguing world where gods are real and play a surprisingly personal role. The half-Harshini Brak is a surprisingly complex and interesting secondary character--one who deserves more book than he gets in MEDALON. Expect to see more of him in the sequels. I found Tarja a bit too heroic, Joyhinia too evil, and R'shiel too caught up in petty anger with her mother to make them fully sympathetic, as well as a bit lacking in story goal, but Fallon's strong world-building and strong prose style kept me glued to the pages.	2004-06-05
642593:US	49115690	R3NAL98ELJGDWW	0060581050	576689910	I Dreamed I Married Perry Mason: A Cece Caruso Mystery	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Charming mystery with great L.A. feel	Biographer Cece Caruso is stuck in her planned biography of Erle Stanley Gardner--the creator of Perry Mason. When she comes across a misfiled letter a prison inmate sent to Gardner, she thinks this might be a key to unlocking a part of his personality. But when she meets the convicted murderer, she wonders if Gardner made a mistake--because she can't believe that Joe Albacco really is guilty of the crime he's spent most of his life in jail for. On the urgings of the pison priest, Cece sets of to discover the truth--and finds herself pursued by a mysterious black SUV and confronting murder far more recent than the one that took place half a century ago.<br />Cece flitters back and forth between the Los Angeles of today and the southern California of the early twentieth century when oil discoveries made some people billions, when Erle Stanley Gardner was writing his thrillers, and when Hollywood set the stage for fashion. Cece frequently wears vintage costumes, fitting herself more into the world of the past than that of the present. But in this case, the past is striking back with a vengence because someone still holds onto a secret--one that just may be worth one more murder.<br />Author Susan Kandel creates a sympathetic and motivated heroine in Cece Caruso. While she's not investingating long-ago murders, she's delaying her writing by trying to save her daughter's wedding, trying to decide whether to pursue an interest in the glamorous Burnett or the sexy but practical Detective Gambino, or shopping for first edition Perry Mason or a Coco Channel outfit. Kandel brings in plenty of parallels to the Perry Mason style of investigation (including occasional disregard for the law in the hunt for the truth) and does it all with a sexy female-empowered attitude.<br />There's a lot to like in this cute short mystery.	2004-06-04
644838:US	49115690	R1G97SKH4P97KT	0525947981	608087708	Bubbles a Broad	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Way over the top--but pure fun	Bubbles Yablonsky has won a trial job at the local newspaper--only to get caught up in a cat-fight at the historical society and fired. But an escaped convict, proclaiming her innocence, gives Bubbles a story angle that just might win back her job. Somehow, she's got to track down the truth behind a cyanide murder, the powerful steel company that rules over Lehigh Pennsylvania, a possible underground railroad tunnel, and the mysterious M.R.S. program at Two Guys Community College. In the meantime, Bubbles has a noxious ex-husband, a Princeton-bound daughter, and super-sexy sometimes boyfriend/journalistic rival Steve Stiletto to deal with. Will Bubbles and Stiletto finally make it all the way to the bedroom, or will they again be kept from consumation by journalistic demands?<br />The Bubbles series is completely over the top. From character names (Bubbles? Stiletto?), to attire (Bubbles agonizes about whether to wear her leapard-pattern blouse or her one-armed zebra dress to the fancy date with Stiletto), to Bubble's pride in being the biggest loser in Two Guys Community College history to the story itself, BUBBLES A BROAD is definitely not to be taken seriously. It's silly, a bit rediculous, and pure fun. Bubbles enjoys being tacky, worries that her failure to talk to Jon Bon Jovi has tainted her for life, and does the best she can to be a good mother for her teenaged daughter. Rediculous or not, though, Bubbles keeps her eye on the mystery, comes up with one theory after another, and intends to get her story if it kills her.<br />Author Sarah Strohmeyer pulls off the difficult challenge of mixing mystery with farce and delivers a page-turning adventure. It's hard not to admire Bubbles--although any but the most courageous might want to take her fashion hints with a grain of salt. Still, if it's good enough to attract Steve Stiletto...	2004-06-03
645988:US	49115690	R1SCT9W45RQ7Q0	0778320448	618771939	The Shop on Blossom Street (Blossom Street, No. 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Strong writing of 4 self-absorbed women learning to grow	When she opens a yarn and knitting shop on Blossom Street, cancer survivor Lydia Hoffman doesn't know what to expect. She has enough money to run the shop for a while, but will she bring in customers? Or is she simply wasting her time and creating a burden on her mother, as her sister hints? It doesn't take too long before Lydia's beginning knitting class starts up with three very different women. Jacqueline Donovan is a wealthy snob, contemptuous of her daughter-in-law and angry with her husband for having an affair. Alix Townsend is planning on working off the community service time she earned for having drugs in her purse (they belonged to her roommate). Carol Girard is obsessed with having a baby--no matter what the financial, emotional, or ethical costs. Despite their differences and initial conflict, the four women forge a bond, gradually growing together.<br />At first, the women seem to share only two things--their knitting and an unhealthy self-obsession. By working together, each becomes free to break out from their self-imposed boundaries and to see how their self-destructive behavior was a choice rather than something imposed on them from the outside.<br />Author Debbie Macomber specializes in strongly written stories of women coming together for support and growth. THE SHOP ON BLOSSOM STREET is a strong entry into this category. Although all four women may initially put readers off, their growing strength as they finally face their problems and seize their power makes them sympathetic and even heroic. The love interests are possibly a bit too perfect, but this is a romance after all and who needs a romantic fantasy about a realistic male.	2004-06-02
647648:US	49115690	R1GTM8OYUNWE9D	0061051438	939152313	Superluminal: A Novel of Interplanetary Civil War	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent world-building and military action	A thousand years from now, humanity has spread through the solar system--and mankind is no longer alive. Artificial intelligences have grown so complex that they have taken on life--become 'free converts.' And 'physical' humans themselves have uploaded themselves into the omnipresent nanotechnology/communications net. War has broken out between the inner (Mercury/Venus/Earth/Mars) systems and the interconnected 'Met' and the outer systems with the inner systems, under director Ames, attempting to eliminate human rights for the free converts and to bring everyone under centralized control. The outer systems are outnumbered, outgunned, and faced with stupid generals, but they have powerful weapons of their own and fight back hard.<br />Author Tony Daniel examines the lives of a number of people living in both the Met and in the outer systems, exploring the developing war through their eyes and virtual eyes. A young woman develops an affair with a nine-hundred year-old jeep, a rock-balancing monk re-falls in love, a punk-kid is adicted to 'glory' and a free-convert military leader tries to hold off the overwhelming force of the inner systems' attack.<br />Daniel does a fine job balancing the lives of different 'people' with the need to move the story along. His powerful world-building provides a strong structure on which to hang the story and it works. SUPERLUMINAL is a big book (and part of a series) but it didn't take long for me to get hooked into it--reading until my wife had to beg me to turn the light off so she could sleep. The combination of first-class world-building, intriguing characters, and innovative military action adds up to one of the best Science Fiction titles I've read in years.	2004-06-01
649485:US	49115690	R2LSZ8PR94UHSZ	0345467159	999628123	The Alpine Pursuit (Daheim, Mary)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Enjoyable and insightful mystery--a good one	When a college professor is killed during a student play, newspaper owner Emma Lord decides to get to the bottom of what might be an accident but could be murder. Nobody much liked Hans Berenger--but disagreements over sports policies or dating hardly seem like good enough reason for murder. Still, in a small town like Alpine, Washington, secrets are hard to keep. Emma suspects that a mysterious stranger is involved, but something seems missing--some clue that will put it all together.<br />Author Mary Daheim brings the town of Alpine to life. Mary is a complex and damaged character--still recovering from the death of a lover, uncertain whether about exploring her feelings toward the sheriff, angry with plenty of people all the time, and pursuing the truth about what might be murder both for her newspaper and to satisfy some need within herself that has nothing to do with the news. Daheim interjects humor, the petty disagreements that make life real, and small-town competitiveness and cooperation.<br />The mystery itself is cleverly constructed with enough clues to bring in the alert reader without being obvious. THE ALPINE PURSUIT is an enjoyable and engaging story that tugs the reader along with a subtle but powerfu current. This is a good one.	2004-05-30
649745:US	49115690	RECI3PTQ57A0J	0743226380	886391866	Muletrain to Maggody: An Arly Hanks Mystery (Arly Hanks Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun look at murder in a small Arkansas town	Maggody Police chief Arly Hanks's job gets complicated when historians discover that a minor civil war skirmish took place near Maggody--and that the confederate soldiers had hidden their payroll gold somewhere. All of a sudden, missing people reports start to show up as half of Maggody heads for the nearby caves in hopes of discovering treasure and becoming rich. Rumors of treasure and the filming of a documentary about the skirmish (based on a confederate soldier's recently discovered journal) bring out-of-town visitors as well--actors, underemployed professors, and socialites looking for a chance to be seen. But when one of them turns up dead, Arly has to wonder whether it could really be the accident it appears to be--or could it be murder.<br />Author Joan Hess turns the town of Maggody into her story's main character. From the venial mayor Jim Bob to his wife Mrs. Jim Bob with her fixation on the local minister to the moonshiners and the good-ole-boys of the small Arkansas town, Maggody feels real. Arly has a bit of a love-hate relationship with the town she serves as police chief but she uses the threat of Jim Bob not being able to buy a beer in her mother's bar to make sure she keeps her job long enough to decide where she wants to go next. The escapees from the retirement community, the pig-loving moonshiner, and her mother's friends with their mad plan to break into this historical society all add charm to this nice mystery.<br />The plot line to MULETRAIN TO MAGGODY slowed down from time to time, but Hess's strong writing kept me involved in the characters even when the story wasn't doing much. Hess's insights into the civil war recreation mentality creates some additional humor to this fine light novel.	2004-05-30
651889:US	49115690	R1ESAGYE6XKJ2E	0765307456	426788127	Daughter of Exile	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Strong start, Too much coincidence and e-z read writing	Angarred Hashan was raised far from the royal court after her father's exile but, when her father is assassinated, she returns hoping to find justice. Instead, she finds a court torn by rivalry as the aging king declines, his niece suffers from insanity, and his nephew and a power-mad wizard vie for control. With the help of a sexy but drug-addicted mage and the one other loyal member of the court, Angarred begins to see that invisible hands are controlling everything--pushing the world toward violence and destruction.<br />In a series of adventures, Angarred luckily runs into a palace servant who knows the secret passages that give Angarred access to the secrets, travels through the forest and learns about woman's magic (denied by the male wizards), and learns of the magic stone that limits all magic and prevents another outbreak of the wizard wars that once nearly destroyed the planet. She also finds herself attracted to the sexy wizard/addict and increasingly fond of the nobleman who helps her.<br />Author Isabel Glass starts strong with her description of Angarred's exile, the doomed inevitability of her father's destruction, and the introduction of the tortured addict/mage. But the story weakens from there as coincidence is piled on coincidence as Angarred survives the most unlikely dangers and conveniently discovers all of the kingdom's secrets. Glass's writing is occasionally very strong but she sometimes oversimplifies her construction, letting the reader feel that he/she is being taken through a young adult title rather than a serious work of fantasy.<br />Still, with the strong beginning and a wealth of adventure, it's easy to understand why TOR purchased this first-time author. As her talent matures, I look forward to reading more from Glass in the future.	2004-05-28
653000:US	49115690	R36T7RGUK7F5Q3	0385337787	534883988	Hallowed Bones	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Mostly enjoyable with some glitches	Occasional private investigators, Sarah Booth Delaney and Tinkie Richmond get a call from a nun asking them to help clear a young woman of the worst of accusations--murder of her own child. Doreen Mallory is too innocent, too spiritual, and too unconnected to any real sense of grief to be real, but somehow Sarah and Tinkie believe her protestations of innocence. What they don't believe is that the baby just died. The police have clear evidence of murder--drugs in the baby's formula. And the mother is the only candidate with motive (the baby suffers from birth defects and Doreen's career is a faith healer), opportunity, and means.<br />It takes some doing to even get Doreen to name the baby's father candidates--a senator, a minister, and a business manager. All have alibis and none seriously believe that they were the father (Doreen had told each that someone else was the father) so they seem to be clear. But Sarah and Tinkie know that murder is generally connected to the family and they intend to pursue all the leads. In between, that is, showing up in the perfect gown at the New Orleans Black and Orange party and paying close attention to their ticking biological clocks. Because the death of a baby reminds both Tinkie (married to a man who doesn't want children) and Sarah (interested in two unavailable men) that neither is getting younger and that their time to have a baby will eventually run out.<br />Author Carolyn Haines brings the Mississippi countryside to life and captures some of the vibrant energy of New Orleans. Sarah is an interesting character with the happy problem of two men in love with her. Unfortunately, one is married and the other is committed to living in Paris, France, a million miles from Mississippi where Sarah's family is buried and where her resident ghost hangs out. Haines handled transsexual issues (one of Sarah's best friends had been born a man) sympathetically.<br />There were a few problems in the mystery itself. The insistence on DNA evidence of the true father would have made more sense if one of the potential fathers had any reason to believe that Dorren was lying about paternity. As it was, Sarah and Tinkie never bothered to inquire whether any of them might have guessed. The shabby police work isn't quite credible, even for a work of fiction, and the holes in at least one of the alibis were so obvious that surely Sarah should have followed up on it. For me, as well, Sarah's dilemma over which man to pick went on a bit. Still, although HALLOWED BONES is well written and enjoyable.NA evidence of the true father would have made more sense if one of the potential fathers had any reason to believe that Dorren was lying about paternity. As it was, Sarah and Tinkie never bothered to inquire whether any of them might have guessed. The shabby police work isn't quite credible, even for a work of fiction, and the holes in at least one of the alibis were so obvious that surely Sarah should have followed up on it. For me, as well, Sarah's dilemma over which man to pick went on a bit. Still, although HALLOWED BONES is well written and enjoyable.	2004-05-27
653801:US	49115690	R3C3CI4KUA1SUW	0345462327	559514085	Flashpoint (Troubleshooters, Book 7)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Well written and exciting action-romance	CIA researcher Tess Bailey longs to get into the field but is continually denied the chance. When she overhears that an agent's cover may be blown, she contacts his partner, Jimmy Nash, and includes herself in the rescue. She does a good job but even that doesn't win her the promotion--it does win her a one-night-stand with Nash, though, and she's wanted Nash for a long time.<br />Frustrated at the CIA's unwillingness to let her into the field, Bailey quits and joins Troubleshooters Incorporated, a private company run by ex-Navy Seals who take on the jobs the government won't do. There she finds herself on a team with Nash, his partner, and several other ex-Seals, Marines, and ex-CIA agents--being sent to Kazbekistan--a Moslem failed state whose warlords are reputed to have close ties to Al-Qaeda. An earthquake has created a humanitarian disaster serious enough to force Kazbekistan to open its borders for the first time in years--and killed the local Al-Qaeda leader. The man may be dead, but his laptop computer, equipped with all of Al-Qaeda's plans for terrorist plots, is still at large.<br />In Kazbekistan, Bailey and Nash confront the attraction that neither wants but neither can deny. Somehow, between dodging aftershocks, heading off a noisy newspaper reporter, setting up illegal broadcast towers, and chasing down every CIA contact left in the country, they make time for passion. But passion comes with its own price--especially as Nash comes to realize that his partner has fallen for Bailey too.<br />Throw in a beautiful American whose husband was beheaded by the local dictator and a daring rescue in the fortress-like headquarters of the local warlord and you have an exciting romantic adventure.<br />Author Suzanne Brockmann does an excellent job characterizing the damaged Jimmy Nash and setting him up for redemption at the hands of the first woman who can actually understand and respect him for who he is. I was impressed as well by the way Brockmann dealt with the Moslem resentment against an America which seems more intent on punishing than on understanding and helping--not supporting the attitude, of course, but understanding it. I thought that Brockmann backed away from some of the action and sensual scenes without giving the reader the full bang-for-the-buck, but that didn't stop this from being a completely enjoyable and fast-paced read.ith the Moslem resentment against an America which seems more intent on punishing than on understanding and helping--not supporting the attitude, of course, but understanding it. I thought that Brockmann backed away from some of the action and sensual scenes without giving the reader the full bang-for-the-buck, but that didn't stop this from being a completely enjoyable and fast-paced read.	2004-05-26
655284:US	49115690	R9BZXW8NE28AL	0451459652	960632728	The Last Light of the Sun (Kay, Guy Gavriel)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Lack of goal weakens interesting story and world	Erling (Viking) raiders have pillaged for generations but their day is finally passing. The Anglcyn (Saxons) under their powerful king Aeldred (Alfred the Great) have centralized their government, built strong fortifications, and even taken some Erling into their own kingdom. And the Cyngael (Welsh Celts) continue their squabbling while providing relatively little loot for the Erling. Three young men, Bern Thorkellson--an Erling, Athelbert--an Anglcyn prince, and Alun ab Owyn--a Cyngael prince are thrown together by fate in these last days of Erling raids. Because the grandson of the last great raider, Ivarr Ragnarson has sworn to recover his grandfather's lost sword and gain the glory and death that was once every Erling's destiny.<br />Author Guy Gavriel Kay strays from history primarily by introducing the fair people--fairies and ancient gods, and by transforming historical Christianity into faith in the sun-god Jad.<br />THE LAST LIGHT OF THE SUN delivers plenty of action as the Erling battle amongst themselves, and with both Anglycyn and Cyngael. Then again, the Cyngael and Anglycyn don't exactly see eye-to-eye and the greatest sport of the Cyngael is to raid one another. Occasionally, Kay escalates the action into true emotion. Kay's strong writing kept me hooked to the story even when he digressed into amusing sidetracks about the post-story lives of minor characters who would never be seen in the narrative again.<br />The best story comes when a character has a goal that drives him/her forward, forces decisions, and transforms both the character and those around him/her. In LAST LIGHT, Ivarr Ragnarson comes closest to having such a story goal. Unfortunately, he is too minor of a character to be an effective anti-hero and is dealt with too easily. For me, this lack of story goal weakened the plot and held LAST LIGHT back from achieving its full potential. Still, LAST LIGHT draws strength from the fascinating period of history that it is derived from and makes for an interesting and worthwhile read.kes for an interesting and worthwhile read.	2004-05-25
657556:US	49115690	R1ZDIERMRQWPIQ	0892968117	196680666	The Accusers: A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superior Roman legal thriller	Back in Rome after an extended stay in Roman Britain, informer Marcus Didius Falco and his young brother-in-laws attempt to restart his business tracking down information, assisting in lawsuits, and generally taking advantage of the state of Roman society. Falco gets involved in a case almost by accident--a lawsuit followed by a botched suicide leads to multiple accusations of murder. And all of a sudden, the dead man's son is looking to Falco as his only defender.<br />To get the young man off the charge of murdering his own father, Falco needs a better alternative and one is readily at hand. His client's mother hated the dead man, is busy accusing her son, and has motive, opportunity, and knowledge of poisons. Falco becomes emeshed in a murder case that he brings against the woman. But if he's wrong, or fails to prove his case, he doesn't just lose. The injured parties will come after him and his meager assets. And his opponents are two of the sharpest lawyers first century Rome has to offer.<br />Author Lindsey Davis combines action, history, and courtroom tactics into a compelling and fascinating story. Falco is a bit of a film-noir type hard-edged private eye but he's forced to take the stand in this case and also to decide where his ethics lie. Davis's depictions of 1st Century Imperial Rome are crystal-clear and accurate (as far as my History minor lets me remember) but her research never intrudes into the story.<br />THE ACCUSERS is a welcome addition to a fine series. Recommended.	2004-05-23
659621:US	49115690	R3UHRQZ39S71HP	0765303086	124646762	A Scholar of Magics (College of Magics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Charming journey	The Titanic is still setting speed records as it crosses the North Atlantic, the sun never sets on the British Empire, and the mages of Glasscastle University chant their wards and protect themselves and everyone nearby from evil. Britain, threatened by the German Empire, has embarked on an ultimate weapon--the Agincourt Project and has involved Glasscastle in its construction. American sharpshooter Samuel Lambert is a consultant, his aim with multiple weapons providing a benchmark for their efforts. But when his roommate disappears, Lambert suspects that something has gone very wrong.<br />Beautiful Jane Brailsford isn't a teacher at Glasscastle--no woman would be allowed such a role--but she is does teach mathmatics at a rival university in France. She's in England on a mission central to the world's future. The warden of the West has refused to take up his position and the entire world is spinning toward disaster. Her task, set by the new warden of the North, is to persuade him to take up his post. If she can even find him. Because the new warden is Lambert's roommate, the two form an uneasy alliance.<br />Author Caroline Stevermer puts her emphasis on world-building and the subtle interplay between characters. Jane and Lambert share an attraction that neither knows how to relate to in the world of Victorian manners and morals. Even as they try to determine what is keeping the warden from taking his job and what is wrong with the Agincourt project, their attentions are distracted by romance. Lambert's fascination with Jane is overshadowed by his fascination with Glasscastle itself--a university where Americans, especially working-class Americans like himself, would never be admitted.<br />A SCHOLAR OF MAGICS is a leisurely journey through a time when manners mattered, when a woman's virtue could still be ruined, and when the vast speed of thirty-five miles an hour was almost unthinkable.	2004-05-21
665119:US	49115690	R1BB10DJZPERAL	0595307337	737690839	THE SCYLLA HEXAGRAM: KYM A-1	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good descriptions of global financial system	Although she has become a super-spy for the global agency 'the Network,' Kym Blaze is still dealing with the night she was almost killed by the Unicorn. When her newest assignment puts her directly into confontation with the Unicorn, Kym must learn to use her fear and anger--or be destroyed. The Unicorn has developed a plot to undermine the global trading system, creating financial instability and driving a return to the Maoist/Communist rule in China. Using the tools of cyberterrorism, he intends to dump false information into the network, create false and losing trades, and send rumors of destruction through the system.<br />As she throws herself into her mission, Kym can never be certain who is an ally and who is an enemy. The felon/trader Obermeyer is a doubleagent in the hire of the Network, but does he really work for the Unicorn--or is he working for himself. And who is the Unicorn really--and why does he seem to be driving toward an ultimate confrontation with Kym, no matter what the cost in slain men or even damage to his plans?<br />Author Paul Riva does a good job describing the international financial trading system putting the complicated nature of trade in language that readers can understand. He also worked hard to show Kym as a heroine tortured by her past failure and wrestling with her role in the world. Often clunky language and insufficient character development, however, sometimes gave THE SCYLLA HEXAGRAM a comic-book feel. Still, SCYLLA makes an enjoyable read.	2004-05-17
665926:US	49115690	R1IU7F09IUWNIN	0060525290	605633628	The Body in the Attic: A Faith Fairchild Mystery (Faith Fairchild Mysteries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Empty calories	When her pastor-husband takes a temporary teaching job at Harvard, Faith Fairchild worries about uprooting her children but finally goes along. Her husband has arranged to borrow a huge Cambridge house close to the University, but Faith senses that something isn't right about the house--a sensation reinforced when she discovers an ancient diary that recounts the story of the wife of a former owner--who was held captive and raped by her husband. Faith's problems with her husband's new job are reinforced by the sexy graduate student who seems intent on meeting with Faith's husband every time she gets the chance and the emergence of Faith's old boyfriend--now apparently a client in a homeless shelter.<br />Author Katherine Hall Page surrounds the reader with Faith's daily life--her business as a caterer, her sister's upcoming wedding (and baby), the gossip of Aleford where Faith had lived and her husband had preached until the move to nearby Cambridge. So much so, however, that the mystery doesn't actually get started until the book is halfway over.<br />Page's smooth writing kept me turning the pages through this mystery but Faith wasn't especially sympathetic as a character, resourceful as a sleuth, or clever in escaping from danger. THE BODY IN THE ATTIC is a nice enough quick read but that's about all.	2004-05-16
666590:US	49115690	R1SBLF9M8VVUPF	076531052X	970276746	The Priestly Sins	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fascinating story of a priest and the coverup crisis	Herman Hoffman thought his hardest task would be to decide between his love for the beautiful Irish-American Kathleen and his calling to the church. And that was a difficult choice. But what he found once he'd entered the priesthood was worse. When Hoffman blew the whistle on a fellow priest he caught in the act of raping a teenaged boy, Hoffman was committed to a mental institution, kept doped for months, and finally sent to graduate school as a form of exile. Still, Hoffman fights for his calling--against all of the pressure that the power of the Archbishopric can bring.<br />Author Andrew M. Greeley deals with one of the most explosive issues facing the Catholic Church in America--the fact of priestly abuse and the even more serious fact of high-ranking cover-up. For decades, anyone who stood for the truth was hounded from the church, boycotted, shunned, and even committed. And the church that Greeley exposes (Greeley is a Catholic priest) is rife with all of the sins that the newspapers cover. But it remains a church of hope. And Father Hoffman stands as a positive example of what people of faith can do.<br />Greeley is a talented author and his strong writing brings to life the emotional growth of Hoffman from youth to accepting his calling, his struggles once he'd witnessed the rape (including support from Greeley's beloved sleuth Bishop Blackey), and the story of the Volga Deutsche (Germans who came to America by way of a century or so spent on the plains of Russia after being invited there during Peter the Great's western push). Greeley shares his mystical vision of the church in an interesting way with the spirit of Hoffman's long-dead great grandmother playing a significant role.<br />Fans of Greeley's mysteries and love stories will want to savor this more complex tale.	2004-05-16
668252:US	49115690	R2OHCIBQQ0K5JX	0765301938	457201235	House of Reeds (In The Time of The Sixth Sun)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great worldbuilding, plenty of action	In a universe where the Aztec rather than Europeans prevailed, the Aztec-dominated Empire reaches across the galaxy. On one ancient world, the priests of the Aztec plot a 'flower war.' The manufactured war will give soldiers a chance to earn glory, exercise their weapons, and provide the blood sacrifices their gods require. Of course, the war will also cause problems for anyone who gets caught in its midst--including renegade Captain Mitsuhara Hadeishi, archeologist Gretchen Anderssen, or Aztec prince Texozomoc.<br />To provoke the war, Aztec priests pretend to be nordic opponents of the Aztec empire, sharing military equipment with the native population of Jagan. But not even the priests recognize the dangers they're provoking--dangers that include hidden weapons from millions of years of civilization (many made unusable by the lack of fuels and metals in a world where mines where exhausted thousands of years earlier but suddenly useful with the Empire's reintroduction of lubricants, power supplies, and metal), real opponents of the Aztec rule, and even possibly remnants of ancient civilizations with no love for the upstart Aztec Empire.<br />Author Thomas Harlan has smoothed out the often-clunky writing of some of his earlier books and offers some fun and fascinating world-building. What if the Japanese and Aztec empires had been able to strike first? With Japanese metal technology and their shared martial traditions, the combination would have been daunting. Adding to that a mysterious ancient civilization and hunt for its artifacts and you have a powerful basis for story-telling. Harlan adds some nice battle sequences and considerable blood-letting to keep the pages turning.<br />HOUSE OF REEDS is nicely done, even to its twist at the end. It did, however, fall a bit short of my hopes when it came to the characters. I didn't really get a good understanding of what Gretchen was up to, or why we should care about her successes or failures. In the difficult balance between developing characters and putting them in danger, Harlan chose action--perhaps a bit too often.nce between developing characters and putting them in danger, Harlan chose action--perhaps a bit too often.	2004-05-14
672548:US	49115690	R3N8Z70UMA6MCZ	0765309076	209580980	Wellspring of Chaos (Saga of Recluce)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Wonderful worldbuilding. Well written.	When he gets between a lord's son and his pleasure, cooper Kharl goes from being a respected craftsman to an accused criminal. Ultimately, he loses his entire family and has to flee his native Brysta--but not before a young black mage he had rescued is murdered. Kharl takes the mage's staff. As her reads the fallen mage's book and experiments with her staff, Kharl begins to refine his own sense of order. He may be a simple cooper, but he believes in doing things right--and over time, comes to believe in making things right as well. But it's difficult for a refugee to make things right--you need power to accomplish much. A mage, on the other hand, has real power.<br />Kharl's problems lead him to befriend beggers, fight pirates, and ultimately battle white mages for the future of one of the kingdom of Austra. Fortunately, he has a knack of finding friends when he needs them and, although he denies it, his sense of order begins to bring him power.<br />Author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. has created a fascinating world in the Recluce saga. Order and chaos battle one another, yet need each other to survive. The politics of the world are far more complex than good vs. evil, and even the side of 'order' has its own problems. Kharl makes an interesting character--with a love for wood and iron and true caring about others.<br />Readers new to Modesitt and Recluce may find the novel slow going at first. The problems Kharl faces reveal themselves only slowly and his ultimate (in this book at least) battle does little to resolve the problems that first set him into motion. For me, WELLSPRING lacked some of the emotional intensity of earlier novels in this fine series. That, however, is not to say that WELLSPRING isn't a fascinating adventure and well worth the read.	2004-05-11
672613:US	49115690	R2G6UK8BY4634Y	0312313977	23813238	The White City	Books	2	13	17	N	N	Unlikable characters weaken novel	The great 1893 World's Fair in Chicago is marred by the kidnappings, murder, and vivisection of several boys and psychologist Elizabeth Handley is sent to Chicago to see whether her profiling can help solve the case. She arrives just as another boy vanishes--this one the son of a wealthy capitalist. But Billy's kidnapping seems different--especially when a underworld leader approaches Billy's father with a deal--give him the contract for a skyscraper if he ever wants to see his son again.<br />THE WHITE CITY switches between Handley's investigation, impressionistic views of Chicago at the turn of an earlier century, and Billy's plight in the hands of his kidnapper. Author Alec Michod is at his best as he describes the early Chicago but far weaker when he deals with characters.<br />I found THE WHITE CITY to be a bit of a mishmash. None of the characters, not even the annoying Billy, is especially sympathetic. Handley's investigation seems to consist of unmotivated wandering around and discovering of bodies. But Michod doesn't make the criminals any more sympathetic. Their terroristic plan to blow up the electrical building, and Skurlock's desire for Billy seem unmotivated and poorly thought out.<br />THE WHITE CITY is Michod's first novel and he's obviously trying hard. But mystery fans will want to hold off until Michod moves beyond mood and city and discovers characters, motivation, and engaging the reader's sympathy.	2004-05-11
674358:US	49115690	R3HKZOST4U5QXT	0312301979	641031887	Earth Colors (Em Hansen Mysteries)	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Weakened by unsympathetic heroine, unlikely motivation	Em Hansen is waiting out her life--waiting for her boyfriend to return from whatever overseas operation the military sent him on, waiting for her friend's baby to grow older, waiting while she struggles with ideas for her Master's thesis in geology. In the meantime, she sponges off of her mother, lives rent-free with her equally impoverished friend Faye Carter, and visits western art museums to check out the fabulous paintings by Remington. When Faye meets up with an old school friend, she offers Em a way to solve all of her problems. Tert Krehbeil has a possible Remington he'd like tested for authenticity and he's willing to pay Em to use her geological skills to identify the pigments used in painting. It's an opportunity to make some money and pick up a thesis topic. And Faye gets some dates out of it with the handsome Tert.<br />Em's detective instincts warn her that something is wrong with the deal--and with Tert, but she can't turn down money. She soon finds herself investigating--and stepping on toes in the FBI who has their own investigation going on. But if Em's fears are right, she's stumbled into something even more serious than paint forging--something very much like murder.<br />Author Sara Andrews offers interesting information about the pigments used in 19th century painting (most of them poisons) and in the dangers of suburbinization. Despite these strong points, I found Em to be unsympathetic--too concerned with her own pathetic life, bitter with her mother for not taking better care of Em's prospective inheritance, and angry with Faye for not getting on with her life--as if Em was doing better with her own. I also had a hard time understanding why Terc would ask for Em's advice (let alone pay for it) in the first place. As an art dealer, surely he had plenty of contacts he could use and trust without opening up to a complete stranger.<br />EARTH COLORS isn't a bad mystery--it certainly kept me reading. But the unsympathetic protagonist dragged me out of the complete involvement a reader has a right to expect in a first-class mystery.out of the complete involvement a reader has a right to expect in a first-class mystery.	2004-05-10
675681:US	49115690	RBKI7NYLFR33G	0425194272	4008031	Circus Of The Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Thrilling Action with just a hint of sexuality	Anita Blake has a full time job animating zombies (to serve as witnesses, finalize their estates, or comfort families), but she can't escape her part-time job as paranormal advisor to the police and vampire hunter. When she gets a police call about a murder, she suspects vampires--but the scene of the crime reveals something much worse--multiple vampires attacked. It can only mean one thing--a rogue master vampire and his servants is loose in St. Louis. And a vampire pack requires frequent feedings. Anita knows that the killing will be only the first in a series--unless she can stop it.<br />The thing is, a rogue master vampire should be impossible. Jean-Claude is master of the city and no master vampire should be able to enter his domain without his being aware of it. But the invader isn't some weak and fresh corpse--he's the oldest, most powerful, and deadliest vampire Anita has ever faced. And he's intent on ending the current rules that treat vampires as citizens--even though it means he'll have to overthrow Jean-Claude first.<br />Anita faces a dilemma. Jean-Claude is gradually turning Anita into his human servant--something she doesn't want despite the sexual feelings she has for Jean-Claude. But does she fear him enough to turn him over to his enemies? Complicating her feelings toward Jean-Claude, Anita meets Richard--a too-good-looking science teacher with a secret and an obvious desire to date Anita. Then there's her fellow vampire killer, Edward who just might have to kill Anita to get at Jean-Claude. The poor girl isn't having much luck with her love life.<br />CIRCUS OF THE DAMNED is an early novel in the Anita Blake series. In CIRCUS, the lines between good and evil are faded, but they still exist. Vampires are evil and must be killed. Some can become temporary allies, but they can never be trusted. And Anita dare not put herself in any vampire's power--even if the alternative is her death. Although CIRCUS is sensual, it lacks the outright sexual orientation of more recent Anita Blake stories.<br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton always writes compelling action and CIRCUS shows the young Anita as she battles through waves of vampires, vampire-hating fundamentalists, and snake people. It's exciting and compelling stuff with just enough sexuality to entice the reader and make us wish for more.entation of more recent Anita Blake stories. <br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton always writes compelling action and CIRCUS shows the young Anita as she battles through waves of vampires, vampire-hating fundamentalists, and snake people. It's exciting and compelling stuff with just enough sexuality to entice the reader and make us wish for more.	2004-05-08
676734:US	49115690	R2E6GTU7UHN6W1	0373250517	543585297	Spitting Feathers (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Amusing story, unlikable protagonist	Photographer-hopeful Tao Tandy needs a job and needs a place to stay so, when she finds a house-sitting gig and a job photographing food for a sexy television chef, her life suddenly seems to be on track. Especially since the chef likes more than just her pictures. Admittedly, the housesitting job is a bit demanding since it comes with a needy parrot (African Grey) who hates everyone except his owner, Tao, and the gardener, Chris. But a needy bird soon becomes the least of Tao's problems when her parents' marriage disintegrates, valuable paintings get stolen, and the celebrity chef seems to be keeping a part of his life under covers.<br />Author Kelly Harte uses a breezy and fresh style as she details the life of Tao and her single girlfriends in London. Sir Galahad (Sirg), the bird is an amusing character with a strong personality (do birds have personalities or birdalities?) and always something to say. The human characters are a bit more problamatic. Peter Parker, sometime hoodlum and spiderman wanna-be who still lives with his mother shows promise but Harte doesn't really develop him. Despite Tao's problems, however, her constant egocentrism and snobishness makes her hard to like. Her obliviousness to what's going on around her and her terrible decisions about men would be funnier if she seemed to learn from them.<br />Despite some problems, SPITTING FEATHERS is a cute and well-written story.	2004-05-07
678458:US	49115690	R1VSM0QWACSSLY	0393058557	387243736	The Girl with the Long Back: A Harpur & Iles Mystery (Harpur & Iles Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Strong story of the dark interplay between cop and druglord	Brilliant but insane Assistant Chief Constable Desmond Iles has created a sort of peace in his city by allowing local druglords to operate without much opposition, but ruthlessly squashing outside influence. But the rumors are that the Chief, Mark Lane, is due to be promoted and that a new chief (definitely not Iles) will be appointed. With Iles losing influence, the three major drug lords of the unnamed English city are trying to decide which direction to take and looking at one another with guns drawn. Detective Chief Superintendent Col Harpur tries planting an undercover cop in the smallest of the operations--and nearly loses her when her cover is blown. But the rescue results in two dead criminals--and just might be the spark that sets off a drug war. Especially when Iles's primary informant is killed in what looks like a revenge murder.<br />Harpur, Iles, and the surviving drug lords face off in a multi-sided game. Every man, even within the police department, is pursuing different objectives--yet no one really wants an end to the peace on the streets that Iles's rules have created.<br />Author Bill James continues his fascinating exploration of law and disorder in the world of drugs. Harpur, co-protagonist along with druglord Ralph Ember, is always claiming that there are no gray areas, that good police work will be done and that the police are investigating all of the murders, but everyone knows that Harpur his hiding secrets, and that Iles holds even more secrets and far more gray areas within himself. Panicking Ralph Ember continues as a sympathetic character in his criminal and blustering way.<br />In the world of Harpur and Iles, no one ever answers questions, no one comes out and says what they are thinking, and no one directly admits the truth that they all recognize but cannot speak out loud. The line between policeman and criminal is thin indeed, and Harpur's attempts to hold onto his sanity by imagining the potential that Chief Mark Lane might someday exercise his nominal authority over Iles are both sympathetic and reprehensible.<br />Harpur &amp; Iles Mysteries are strong and thoughtful accounts of the real world--where the police might just be more dangerous than the criminals they hunt and sometimes cooperate with, where informants are protected at all costs, and where the gray area is large indeed.eday exercise his nominal authority over Iles are both sympathetic and reprehensible. <br />Harpur &amp; Iles Mysteries are strong and thoughtful accounts of the real world--where the police might just be more dangerous than the criminals they hunt and sometimes cooperate with, where informants are protected at all costs, and where the gray area is large indeed.	2004-05-06
681491:US	49115690	RMX719R6KPN2A	0670031909	409938290	Lost in a Good Book: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Clever, laugh out loud, with strong emotional moments	Literary Detective Thursday Next, who has just discovered she is pregnant, is in hot water again when her husband, Landen, is eradicated at age 2 in an evil attempt by the corrupt Goliath Corporation to blackmail Thursday. In her previous adventure, Thursday trapped one of Goliath's key employees inside The Raven, and they want him back. If all this sounds impossibly confusing, it isn't once you get into the swing of Fforde's incredibly complex alternate reality.<br />Thursday, who has slipped into an alternate alternate reality where she has no husband (but seems to have a mysterious boyfriend named Miles of whom she has no memory), is determined to do whatever it takes to get Landen back. To meet Goliath's demands she has to learn how to jump into books without the help of her uncle's invention, the Prose Portal, which has been destroyed. She seeks out the mysterious Mrs. Nakajima, the only other person Thursday knows who can &quot;book jump.&quot; Her search leads her into the shadowy world of Jurisfiction, where a dedicated group of fictional characters police the fictional world from inside the books, just as Thursday's agency, LiteraTec, does from the human side. As an apprentice to Miss Haversham (yes, that Miss Haversham), Thursday undertakes her education while dodging evil Goliath persons, coincidences gone wild, and a corrupt ChronoGuard agent attempting to catch Thursday's time-jumping fugitive father (who often pops in to give Thursday a hand).<br />And then there's Pickwick, Thursday's genetically engineered dodo, who has laid an egg .<br />The second Thursday Next installment is every bit as fun as the first. The writing is incredibly clever, filled with literary allusions and amazingly deft wordplay. About 90 percent of it goes straight over my head, but the 10 percent that I do get is plenty to make me laugh out loud. And just when you think it can't get any crazier or funnier, you get socked between the eyes with tender, emotional moments that make me wonder if Thursday could actually &quot;book jump&quot; into my living room.ake me wonder if Thursday could actually &quot;book jump&quot; into my living room.	2004-05-04
681831:US	49115690	R1S4CK3AWILDG8	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Charming fairy tale	Mma. Precious Ramotswe gets a new case for the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency--a woman made wealthy by her hair braiding salons has decided to take a husband and has four suitors. Mma. Ramotswe is hired to determine which is most suitable and which might only be after her money.<br />Author Alexander McCall Smith uses this boyfriend investigation as a jumping off point to consider relationships between men and women. As always, the focus is on Botswanna (a country in southern Africa) with a rich interplay between the traditional culture of this nation and changing society. Intriguing characters, especially Mma. Ramotswe and her secretary/assistant detective, Mma. Makutsi add depth to the story. The lessons aren't especially surprising--men need women to tell them what to do and can't really be trusted to know their own minds--but are told in such a charming way that they seem filled with wisdom.<br />Africa has become the forgotten continent. It seems that we hear about it only in the context of the terrible AIDS epidemic (which is not ignored but ony briefly touched on in this story) or genocide and civil war. McCall Smith takes a different and refreshing tack. Without excessively idealizing the continent, the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency series suggests that Africa is filled with people much like ourselves--but different enough that we can learn about them, and about ourselves, by watching and listening as they go about their daily lives.<br />McCall Smith uses a simple writing style, almost as if creating a fairy tale, that simultaneously highlights the differences between his Botswanna and U.S./U.K. society and also reminds us of humanity's universality.	2004-05-04
682148:US	49115690	RGGWP785BU62Y	0345452593	660919237	Therapy	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Very satisfying read	Psychologist Alex Delaware, now a full-time consultant to the Los Angeles Police Department and his friend Milo Sturgis are called into a homicide investigation. It looks like a lover's lane murder. Two kids, clothing undone, both with bullet holes in their heads. But his psychology training tells Alex that something is wrong with that picture. The sharp post stuck through the woman's chest speaks of anger and intention. As they can't identify the woman, though, Milo and Alex begin investigating the young man.<br />Gavin Quick had been in a personality-changing auto accident and was seeing a psychologist--a woman who had lost another client to murder a year earlier. Alex's instincts tell him that something is wrong, that coincidence does not explain these facts. Still, there is something deeper going on and Milo and Alex have plenty of time to explore every lead.<br />Author Jonathan Kellerman creates a twisty and involved thriller. Although THERAPY lacks the emotional punch of some of Kellerman's early child-abuse mysteries, the story exposes Kellerman's talent for connecting pieces together to gradually unveil a larger conspiracy. Nothing is as it initially seems to be and some of the nicest people in the story turn out to be much worse than they appear.<br />THERAPY combines a bit of psychological profiling with police investigation and with exciting action to add up to a very satisfying read.	2004-05-03
683998:US	49115690	RRIZHWGDJWP6M	0345462742	44171075	The Cutting Room	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Entertaining with over-the-top but sympathetic characters	When a fellow movie trivia buff tells Roy Milano he's found the holy grail of film--the original director's cut of Orson Welles's Magnificent Ambersons, Roy can hardly wait to see the screening. But when he arrives at his friends house, he finds the movie gone and his friend murdered. Now Roy sets out on a mission--to find the movie and see it for himself. If he can help find the actual killer, so much the better. Working his way through the slightly weird clan of fellow trivia buffs, and soon joined by one of the rare attractive females in the group, Roy heads to Hollywood, Spain, and Boston in search of the elusive movie.<br />It doesn't take Roy long to realize that he's onto something major. He seems to run into fists at least as often as clues, but he also finds people who think he knows more than he does--and who are willing to give him money to help them find what they want. Because outside of the narrow world of old-film cultists, the Magnificent Ambersons is simply another ancient flick. Roy's single-minded obsession nearly gets him killed--which makes him better off than most of the people he comes in contact with. Eventually Roy tracks down the movie, but having it only increases the danger.<br />Author Laurence Klavan dishes up an over-the-top adventure with an unlikely trivia-nerd hero who, nevertheless, manages to be sympathetic and even get his share of the girls. Fast-paced action, badly flawed characters, and America's obsession with the movie industry provide plenty of reader interest. Klavan's high-quality writing held my interest and kept me turning the pages--I read the entire book in one sitting. The twist at the end worked for me--adding to the emotional impact of a fine novel.	2004-05-02
684410:US	49115690	R20L91BDJX1WU	0786712961	434848855	Breaking Up Is Hard to Do: A Sam McCain Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strong and engaging mystery	It's 1962, Russia and the U.S. are lurching toward war over the Cuban Missile Crisis, and detective/lawyer Sam McCain two strange offers in one day. First, a stranger offers him way too much money to deliver a package. Second, one of the Iowa town's rich men--a candidate for Governor, hires Sam to take a look in his bomb shelter. It turns out that the two offers are interconnected--the dead body in the bomb shelter is the woman Sam was supposed to deliver the package to. The police have no problems with the case--the candidate must have killed his mistress. But Sam knows that reality is often more complicated than the police let on.<br />Sam mixes noire detective grit with a bit of sensitivity as he tries to track down other candidates for the murder--and there are plenty. The evil brother and the dead woman's other boyfriends are additional candidates. When he's not busy detecting, he tries to straighten out his own life. The woman he always loved is thinking about getting a divorce--and is interested in Sam for the first time. Adding to the complexity, the woman who was always in love with Sam is getting a divorce too--and she wants Sam too. Then there's the candidate's pretty daughter. It makes for an interesting life.<br />Author Ed Gorman brings the early 1960s to life in a convincing but sympathetic manner. Small-town bousterism, hypocritical morality, and narrow-minded snobbery are all there, but so is a certain warmth and caring--heightened by the impending end of the world that the Cuban crisis threatens.<br />BREAKING UP IS HARD TO DO mixes some nice twists with engaging characters and some insights into the world--pretty good for a short detective mystery. I recommend this one.	2004-05-02
685067:US	49115690	RHSMSVJI8M0VC	0553803085	869935696	Mallets Aforethought: A Home Repair is Homicide Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Solid and entertaining	While working on a long-abandoned historic home, Jacobia 'Jake' Tiptree and her friend Ellie White discover the body of a long-dead flapper--and a much more recent corpse. Nobody much regrets Hector Gosling's death. The man was a swindler and a cheat. But the problem is, Ellie's husband George has been making all sorts of noises about wishing Hector were dead. And the more the police look into it, the more evidence they find that points directly at George. Jake finally decides that it's up to her and to vastly pregnant Ellie to get to the bottom of the mystery.<br />It turns out that there were plenty of people with good reason to want Hector dead. His partner is scheduled to inherit everything, Hector broke up his maid's engagement, and he ruined a business deal for a wood-cutting couple who are barely making ends meet. Which makes for plenty of suspects for Jake and Ellie to investigate. The problem is, none of these suspects have more reason to hate Hector than George does, and all seem to have some sort of alibi for the critical times. Only when Jake puts herself in serious harms way does she finally figure out what must have happened. And by then, it just might be too late.<br />Author Sara Graves mixes home renovation with detecting in an entertaining story. Jake's largely disfunctional family (ex-drug abusing son, ego-centered ex-husband, and ex-radical bomber ex-husband as well as mobster ex-business partner) are over the top but add interest to the story. Jake and Ellie do some serious detecting and are well motivated through the story. MALLETS AFORETHOUGHT is definitely worth the read.	2004-05-01
685254:US	49115690	R34WF1GDRQSNIQ	0765303957	393999410	Queen of the Amazons (Alexander the Great)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Well written with effective Alexander the Great	When the Amazon Queen's daughter is born without a soul, the Amazon tribes are torn. Some want to kill the child, but the Queen swears that, soul or not, her daughter will become queen. And Selene, a seer haunted by unwanted visions, volunteers to head the princess's bodyguards. Since the soulless child seems to soak off the effect of Selene's visions, it isn't a bad bargain--at first. Although the princess is soulless and cannot talk, she has a way with animals and weapons. When she takes off one day, Selene, the Queen, and the Queen's military leader follow--as the princess leads them to Alexander the Great.<br />Alexander is in the midst of his world conquest. Unlike the soulless princess, his soul overflows his body and the princess is attracted to him to the point where the Macedonian warriors call her his dog. The princess seems happy but Selene's visions return and she sees Alexander dying young. What will happen then, expecially when the Queen also dies, is anyone's guess.<br />Author Judith Tarr brings Alexander, his Macedonian soldiers and his Persian allies to life. Alexander's unquenchable appitite for more--more conquest, more wine, more fame--drives the story. In the hands of a writer as capable as Tarr, this verve and historical detail makes the story worth reading. For me, the book is weakened, however, by Selene's basic lack of a story goal and by the question of why the Goddess felt it necessary to create the soulless princess in the first place. I kept expecting some great deed that could only be accomplished by a princess without a soul--or a princess who had found a soul. But the resolution of the story, although exciting, didn't differ much from what could have been accomplished if the princess had been born with a soul and we'd never gone to visit Alexander in the first place.	2004-05-01
685504:US	49115690	RM77RLVCPMH1Q	0451209451	285742175	Catch The Moon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Strong characters and real emotion	When a popular gubernatorial candidate is murdered, it's the juiciest case in Monterey County history, and it falls right into Alicia Maldonado's lap. The hardworking deputy district attorney sees it as the perfect vehicle to launch her into public office. Unfortunately, her slimy and incompetent boss, DA Kip Penrose, commandeers the case and the limelight. He needs the visibility to win votes for his upcoming reelection, and a conviction is a slam-dunk--the murderer practically left his calling card.<br />Alicia is relegated to a fact gatherer, someone who feeds the DA sound bites so he'll look good. She's resigned to her fate--until she begins to suspect that the case isn't so cut-and-dried after all, and the murderer might be the victim's own wife. Penrose, however, sweeps under the carpet any evidence he doesn't like. The wife's family is his biggest campaign supporter. And when Alicia won't shut up, Penrose sabotages her entire career in a way that promises she will never be elected to any public office.<br />Add to this injustice a charming network TV reporter trying to use Alicia for his own ends, and a host of over-ambitious characters who will manipulate any situation to further their aims, and Alicia is in heaps of trouble.<br />As in her first novel, FALLING STAR, Diana Dempsey creates realistic and memorable characters, complete with flaws, that you can really root for; then she puts them into trouble so terrible you can't figure out how they'll ever triumph. The author immerses the reader in a well-researched world of money and power, ambition and greed, and surprise plot twists. This is an author to watch.	2004-04-30
686182:US	49115690	R1Y7YDX9L09WB1	0939460211	882503404	The Jake of Diamonds	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute (if dated) mixture of bridge and mystery	Jake Winkman, bridge professional, decides to write a book on how we can all become bridge pros and make a great living ($50k in 1960s dollars) while living in swank hotels and having all the women we ever want. To tell the story, he'll take us through a normal tournament. But as he tells the story, things start to spin out of control. It starts when someone plants stolen diamonds in his beach towel. And then there's the dead body in his hotel shower. And before Jake can say two-clubs, he's in trouble with the police and is starting to pick up hints of international incident.<br />But Jake is intent on teaching us to be bridge pros. He takes us through some interesting hands and describes the type of logic that professional bridge players use to make their decisions--and to help their less skillful partners. It turns out that bridge logic and bridge-trained memory aren't only useful at the bridge table, however. When pushed, Jake finally uses his honed mind to figure out who is really behind the thefts, and identify both victim and killer.<br />Author Don Von Elsner (see more BooksForABuck.com reviews of novels by Von Elsner) does a fun job mixing useful bridge information with adventure. Jake's attitudes toward women and casual sex were probably liberated by the standards of the time this book was written in the 1960s, but seem terribly outdated now, as do the fears of Communism that lurk behind some of the dangers Jake Winkman faces. Likewise, the bridge world has changed--with sadly fewer young faces of the type Jake frequently met. But THE JAKE OF DIAMONDS isn't all history lesson. There's a lot of fun stuff here--and fascinating bridge. My discovery of this series (years ago) sparked my interest in serious bridge--which says something for the compelling power of story.	2004-04-30
686303:US	49115690	R2Y3PDLCVB1IAB	0399151079	804105086	The Cat Who Talked Turkey	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Peaceful, zen-like, but not quite a mystery	With the city of Brrr in upper Michigan getting ready to celebrate its 200th birthday party, newspaper columnist and secret millionaire James Qwilleran picks up his typewriter and begins working on a one-man play about the great storm of 1913. His cat Koko warns him of a murder on his property and tries to send him clues by picking a particular book--the hunting of the Snark--but Qwilleran is too busy with the Brrr festivities, interfering with an aging woman's choice of whether to leave her home to her unfriendly granddaughter, and helping friend/girlfriend Polly with her plans to open a bookstore in the town of Pickax.<br />Author Lilian Jackson Braun brings the lifestyle of upper Michigan into focus as ordinary people interact with Qwilleran, tell him about their lives, and enjoy the way his words add a sense of permanence to what they've always done. Qwilleran's own life, centered around his cats, his writing, and Polly (in that order) is a peaceful and zen-like thing, undisturbed by the violence taking place in the world around him--even in rural Moose county. In his world, the storm of 1913 is every bit as current and certainly far more important than a serial killing that is taking place nearby. Koko the cat disagrees, but he can't seem to get Qwilleran to come around this time.<br />I have profoundly mixed feelings about this book. Qwilleran, the primary character, is essentially passive and goalless through the story. He goes about his life. But it is an interesting life--a life that would have been just as interesting to observe and a lot easier to identify with if murder wasn' happening around him. The bottom line in genre fiction is, was the book worth reading. THE CAT WHO TALKED TURKEY is worth reading for Braun's gentle writing. But if you're looking for a page-turning mystery, you'd do better to look elsewhere.	2004-04-30
691200:US	49115690	RF32CN13HNBHV	074347192X	248677031	Seas of Venus	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Very strong military SF	In a huge effort, humans terraformed Venus, increasing its reflectivity to reduce its heat absorption, introducing life, and finally introducing people. Just in time because human war created the galaxy's newest star and Venus was all that was left of humanity. The lessons of Earth weren't completely missed. Venus's domed cities (the land areas were considered too dangerous to settle) made plenty of war, but their warfare was limited, civilized, and conducted by professional mercenary companies. Cities who stepped outside of the rules of war could be quickly nuked--a strong incentive toward cooperation. Of course, even 'civilized' warfare is still warfare and mankind's efforts were largely squandered in an entire world that is overrun with mutating and dangerous descendents of the species brought in by Earth's teraformers.<br />In two linked novellas, author David Drake explores the mercenaries who carry on the wars. In the first, Surface Action, Johnnie Gordon joins his mercenary-uncle Dan Cooke in an attempt to overcome a conspiracy of mercenary companies to preserve their way of life--by preventing Johnnie's father from bringing about a peaceful union of Venus domed cities. With only Dan's mercenary company to protect the young alliance and with multiple opponents lining up, Johnnie's mercenary experience seems doomed. And that's before Dan comes up with a crazy idea involving a cross-country cutting out operation.<br />In The Jungle, two junior officers face their own failings after their boat is damaged. Each perceives the other as embodying all of the characteristics that they know they are missing themselves--and each uses the other's example for inspiration, subtly living up to the other's misconceptions. But survival is only a part of the requirement. Because the Venus domed cities have themselves reached a critical situation. Somehow, men must reclaim the land while they still have the chance.<br />In SEAS OF VENUS, David Drake sees the romance of war, but he doesn't let it seduce him. Even distant warfare conducted by professional mercenaries has its costs--including the creation of a self-perpetuating and self-dooming system. The first story, Surface Action, is straightforward, with a twist ending. The Jungle is a continual twist as Drake gives us a deeper insight into the characters and into the world and society wich spawned them. The non-linear time flow is occasionally confusing, but the storytelling works.<br />SEAS OF VENUS. especially The Jungle, is military SF at its best. And Drake's story of a true-life voyage to the jungle of Belize is a nice bonus.but he doesn't let it seduce him. Even distant warfare conducted by professional mercenaries has its costs--including the creation of a self-perpetuating and self-dooming system. The first story, Surface Action, is straightforward, with a twist ending. The Jungle is a continual twist as Drake gives us a deeper insight into the characters and into the world and society wich spawned them. The non-linear time flow is occasionally confusing, but the storytelling works. <br />SEAS OF VENUS. especially The Jungle, is military SF at its best. And Drake's story of a true-life voyage to the jungle of Belize is a nice bonus.	2004-04-26
693337:US	49115690	R3O8UJU9PEDMUX	0595299679	908229417	Fire of God: The Dark Angel Tales	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Exciting adventure but rough prose	An angel appears in William KaRel's office with frightening news. The Bible, which most inhabitants of this planet believe to be fiction brought by lost space travelers is true and Satan is attempting a takeover of KaRel's world. But the angel offers hope as well. One of KaRel's sons will take the ring the angel leaves and save the planet--and the galaxy--from Satan's demonic forces. As far as the other son goes, the news is less favorable.<br />As youngest son Joseph grows, he studies the martial arts and tries to stay clear of his older brother, Michael. But Satan's attack comes too soon and the ring selects Joseph. In his bitterness, Michael rejects God and chooses to ally with Satan. With Satan's help, almost the entire world is taken over by Michael's forces. Joseph barely escapes murder and survives to lead a desperately outnumbered rebellion. Yet the ring and his faith in God give him strength to be virtually unbeatable no matter how badly outnumbered he is--until Satan discovers a way to undermine that faith and strip the forces of good of their greatest weapon.<br />Author J. M. Kelly writes an exciting adventure of human bravery, strength of faith, and power of redemption--without stinting on the power of evil as well. Kelly is obviously a story-teller rather than a craftsman and his prose is sometimes rough or redundant. But the power of his story and his belief kept me going despite occasional glitches in style.	2004-04-25
696181:US	49115690	R2SJVFFWJ7C23I	0758201524	710174763	Fudge Cupcake Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fun and well written	When cookie caterer Hanna Swensen's brother-in-law becomes a murder suspect, Hanna throws herself into the investigation. Bill was running for Sheriff against the victim and he might lose the race because of the suspicion. What Hanna finds is that Sheriff Grant had plenty of enemies, including both Bill, his own wife, and just about every deputy in the Sheriff's office. Still, she doesn't need more suspects, she needs evidence to clear Bill and, she hopes, to find the actual killer.<br />Of course, an amateur sleuth has more to do than follow clues. Hanna has her cookie business to run, a pregnant sister to take care of, a mother who's continually demanding that she settle down, get married, and start producing children, and two boyfriends to balance. One of the boyfriends, Mike, just happens to be the acting sheriff who put Bill on suspension. So, unless she can clear Bill, she's also cut herself off from the man who sends her hormones into overdrive.<br />Author Joanne Fluke writes a breasy and page-turning mystery filled with character, co-dependent family life, and a number of cookie and desert recipes--including the Fudge Cupcakes of the title. Although the solution to the mystery is telegraphed a bit obviously, Fluke manages to stage a thrilling rescue and even hints at a way out of the boyfriend mess. FUDGE CUPCAKE MURDER is a fun and well-written mystery.	2004-04-22
698196:US	49115690	R1L86OZ2DV2XKQ	0743471873	811662950	The Road to Damascus (Bolo)	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Good military, way too much social commentary	Sonny, a tracked weapon system (Bolo) as large as apartment building, is sent to the planet Jefferson as his last home. Humans are hardpressed by two alien species and the Bolo represent their one great hope. Although Sonny is aging, even an aging Bolo is a terrible weapon of destruction. When the Deng attack, fleeing from even more rapacious aliens, Sonny, together with the effective military of Jefferson and some farmers armed with beehives, is able to kill all of them with no survivors. But the effort and its attendant destruction saps the Jefferson economy and rabble-rousing populists blame the planets problems on Sonny, the farmers who bore the brunt of the fighting, and on evil profiteers. Their election victory leads to continued encroachments on liberty--including dreaded efforts to disarm the citizens.<br />Stripped of his human officer, Sonny is left under the control of the newly elected President of Jefferson. Sonny's artificial intelligence recognizes the falsities in the Poppa Party program, with its slave labor for farmers and dole for unemployed gang members, but he is unable to ignore the President's orders that he engage in riot suppression. And the Bolo's efforts lead to greater violence against the Poppa Party leading up to an insurection. Where the Poppa once reveiled Sonny, they soon come to depend on him as their primary defense against well armed and well led rebels--especially as they've eliminated virtually all of the disloyal Jefferson army.<br />Authors John Ringo and Linda Evans provide a mix of exciting military/Bolo action (the Bolo construct was initially introduced by Golden Age SF author Keith Laumer) and heavy-handed social commentary. The Poppa platform is a strange mix of pre-World War II Soviet anti-farmer genocide and work camp, anti-Viet Nam war peace activism, environmentalism, and pure stupidity (even the Soviets weren't stupid enough to completely destroy their warmaking ability although they certainly damaged it enough to make things easy for Hitler). Ringo's apparent belief that the right to bare arms can secure freedom certainly flies in the face of recent experiences in Afghanistan and Iraq where armed populations were nevertheless terrorized into docility.<br />There are plenty of great SF books that include strong political statements and I don't begrudge Ringo's use of the soapbox of a novel to send his own right-wing/libertarian message (although I do think that lumping environmentalism with the Soviet genocide of Ukranian farmers is way over the top). From the story perspective, however, Sonny's long cogitations about the internal logic and factual problems in the Poppa program distracted from any plot and also made Sonny seem stupid.<br />A couple of hundred pages of tightening and this could have been a first-rate military SF thriller.o make things easy for Hitler). Ringo's apparent belief that the right to bare arms can secure freedom certainly flies in the face of recent experiences in Afghanistan and Iraq where armed populations were nevertheless terrorized into docility. <br />There are plenty of great SF books that include strong political statements and I don't begrudge Ringo's use of the soapbox of a novel to send his own right-wing/libertarian message (although I do think that lumping environmentalism with the Soviet genocide of Ukranian farmers is way over the top). From the story perspective, however, Sonny's long cogitations about the internal logic and factual problems in the Poppa program distracted from any plot and also made Sonny seem stupid. <br />A couple of hundred pages of tightening and this could have been a first-rate military SF thriller.	2004-04-21
699073:US	49115690	R1SAFYMX2UA2P3	0758200706	943672907	Highlights To Heaven: A Bad Hair Day Mystery	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Flawed but interesting	When her neighbor disappears and a dead body is found in his condo, hair stylist Marla Shore gets involved. She recognizes the highlights on the body and knows the one hairdresser who can produce them. What she doesn't know is that her investigation is going to lead her into serious troubles involving animal research, animal smuggling, a cure for baldness, and a plant disease that threatens the citrus crops of Florida. Along with sometimes boyfriend Police Detective Dalton Vail, Marla rushes from danger to danger--all the while trying to figure out where her relationship with Dalton is headed.<br />Marla Shore is a mostly likable heroine, interested in others, sympathetic toward Dalton's pre-teen daughter, and caring about her neighbor, 'Goat,' who, Marla is certain, could not be the murderer. Marla's bad judgment when it comes to personal safety weakens the character, however, as does her certainty that she knows what is best for Dalton's daughter. One would think that a few near-death experiences would teach her a bit more caution but, unfortunately, they don't.<br />Author Nancy J. Cohen slips in an occasional clunker but her writing is mostly professional quality. HIGHLIGHTS TO HEAVEN is a flawed but interesting mystery.	2004-04-20
700049:US	49115690	R1A25020F6SJC5	0451529006	600206939	House of War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Emotionally satisfying alternate history with great action	The old man of the mountain, Sinan, king of assassins, was defeated and killed, but Hell itself cannot hold him. Sinan is raising new armies against the crusader kingdom of Jerusalem, and his magic seems stronger than ever. King Richard the Lion Hearted sees his knights vanish and knows he needs to march out to battle, but he knows he is no mage--and Sinan can only be defeated by a magic more powerful than anyone has seen in two thousand years.<br />When Sinan captures her daughter, Siomed, half-sister to Richard, nearly goes crazy. Her husband and her friends call her back to reality. No matter how powerful her magic, she can't simply strike back. Sinan will absorb her power and turn it against those she loves. They need a tool--and in Jerusalem, the ultimate tool is the lost Arc of the Covanent. But the Arc has been lost for two thousand years and, even if it is found, only a few oppressed Jews know how to work its magic.<br />Author Judith Tarr paints a wonderful picture of an alternate history where magic is real, where Richard found a compromise in his crusade and built a crusader nation that welcomes people of many faiths, and where Christian, Jewish, Moslem, and pagan magicians strive in the perpetual battle against evil. Tarr's skillful use of the danger to Siomed's children increases the story's emotional intensity as does the growing affection between Mustafa and Giuliano. I also appreciated the sensitive way Tarr handled the cultural differences amongst her protagonists--using it to strengthen the story rather than glossing over it.<br />HOUSE OF WAR is a sequel to DEVIL'S BARGAIN and is, if anything, an even stronger work. This is alternate history fantasy at its best.	2004-04-19
700074:US	49115690	R1ZT9MQZES4XZL	0743457544	990473885	Pink Slip Party	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Good writing, unsympathetic character and motivation	When Jane McGregor's boss/boyfriend decides to dump her, he takes the easy way--including her in a corporate downsizing. Now, Jane has to deal with crushing credit card debt, no income, a bad economy, rough times in her parents' relationship, a French landlord with a gambling problem, and a brother who always wants to give advice. (...)friend Kyle is some help, but Jane knows better than to trust Kyle. Instead, she takes in a kleptomaniac roommate, begins plotting to raid her former company, and sends out zany job applications listing non-existant skills and requesting improbable career paths.<br />It sounds hysterical and it ends up being slightly amusing. Jane is the prototypical chick-lit heroine, caught up in herself, her need for shoes and stuff, whining about the lack of jobs for people with art degrees, and unable to deal with the rapidly increasing army who move into her apartment with her--all unable to help with the rent.<br />Author Cara Lockwood has an approachable style that makes PINK SLIP PARTY hard to put down. I would have liked the story more, however, if Lockwood had put together more of the pieces. The raid on Jane's former company was the central element of the story but I never felt like Jane was involved in it--making the protagonist a bit of a sideline player. Jane also seemed a bit contemptuous of everyone around her--something that reduces the reader's sympathy. I also would have liked the resolution to center more around character growth than it did. Still, Lockwood's strong writing makes this book worth the read.	2004-04-19
700527:US	49115690	RGWNXWNHKW4O8	193156146X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A different kind of time travel	Clare Abshire meets her future husband for the first time when she is six, when he appears naked and a little worse for wear in a clearing near her home. Henry DeTamble has just popped in from the future. He continues to visit her over the years, and she gradually falls in love. (He is already in love, since in the future he is already married to her.) On his last visit from the future, when she is 18, he tells her they will meet in the present in two years.<br />When they meet in two years, she is already in love with him, yet he has never seen her before. (He always visits her as his future self.) So the courtship begins again, from a completely different perspective.<br />This is a time travel story like I've never read before. For one thing, in this universe, time travelers cannot change the past or future no matter what they do. Everything is fixed; essentially, while there appears to be free choice, there isn't. The second thing is that the time traveler has no choice about when he will go traveling, or where and when he turns up, but usually it is to places and times that have emotional intensity. He arrives naked and ill, and spends most of his displaced time stealing clothes, money and food, and running from the police. The one constant is the love between Clare and Henry, and the darkness that hovers just beyond their grasp as they both gradually come to realize that their time together is limited by forces they have no control over.<br />Gripping reading, really amazing stuff. I did not much care for the ending; as skillful as this author is at planting clues and paying them off with an &quot;ah-ha!&quot; moment, I was waiting for some grand twist at the end that would surprise me. But there are no surprises, and the ending just sort of trails off. Still, don't let that stop you from giving this novel a whirl. I am praying that Niffenegger writes a sequel, because there is a character who begs her own story.	2004-04-19
702873:US	49115690	R2RB2W2MEI6XIV	0312277326	472104828	We'll Always Have Parrots	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Zany look at culture with charming protagonist. A good one.	It's an ordinary convention, celebrating the stars of a 'B' grade television show, Porfira, Queen of the Jungle. Meg Langslow accompanies her actor-boyfriend Michael and hopes to sell some of her swords (Meg is a blacksmith). But ordinary SF conventions are anything but ordinary. Parrots and monkeys escape and run wild in the hotel, space-suit clad fans mingle with angry writers and actors, and everyone is angry with leading lady Wynncliffe-Jones. But when the actress ends up killed, her dying words echoed by an African Gray parrot, Meg knows she needs to get to the bottom of the mystery. Because if she doesn't, her boyfriend is likely to be a chief suspect.<br />With occasional assistance from her nerotic doctor-father, Meg explores the world of comic books (graphic novels) on which Porfira was based, the 1960s culture that spawned some pretty good art and bad story-telling, and the web of contracts and bad will that Wynncliffe-Jones used to maintain control over the Porfira franchise.<br />This was a very funny book. Author Donna Andrews has an eye for the zany world of fantasy fans, prima-donna actors, and ambivalent family relations. Protagonist Meg Langslow makes a good and sympathetic character with real personality and skills.<br />I picked up my first Meg Langslow mystery, Crouching Buzzard, Leaping Loon, because of the title and WE'LL ALWAYS HAVE PARROTS is another great title. What's great, though, is finding a book that can live up to a title like this. And Andrews delivers exactly that book. Anyone who enjoys a slightly zany approach to mystery, kick-ass female protagonists, and a tongue-in-cheek look at American culture will want to get their hands on this one. Highly recommended.	2004-04-17
705506:US	49115690	R2V47L5MVX9CQI	0743471644	76699286	There Will Be Dragons (Council Wars)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	And how about that bikini-clad elf on the cover?	For a thousand years, Earth has been almost paradise. A computer artificial intelligence, 'Mother,' keeps track of everything, prevents explosions, and supplies enough energy and nanite technology for everyone to live in plenty. A few recreators dream about the romance of medieval life, but for the most part, they enjoy the long lives that nanite technology allows. There is one problem in paradise. Despite the long lives, humanity is under-reproducing itself. According to some calculations, it will die out entirely if trends don't change. And a faction of the ruling council has come up with a scheme to change everything. That faction is essentially fascism. When the council splits, war breaks out and all of the energy produced by 'Mother' is suddenly drawn into the conflict.<br />Edmund, a smith and medieval recreator, gathers an increasing group of refugees into a town. Since Mother doesn't allow steam engines, let alone internal combustion, they need to recreate medieval technology. But not everyone is content to live in peace--bandits are becoming increasingly organized--and supported by the fascist council members. Former recreator and recently healed Herzer joins the town, gets to work in timber cutting, then joins Edmund's brain-child. A Roman legion. Legions, Edmond reasons, stayed a Republic as long as it did because of the legion. Peasant levies and heavy cavalry, in contrast, lead to feudal serf/noble societies--something that Edmund wants to avoid but that he can only prevent in his own section of the world.<br />THERE WILL BE DRAGONS starts a bit slowly, although the world-building is interesting and convincing. The background, AI wars, Mother, and energy currenty all make for a well-conceived future (I'm not sure that a world where reenactors stop around the beginning of the 20th century really makes sense for the 50th century, nor that 50th century citizens would be more aware of the evils of Pol Pot than we are of the evils of particular old kingdom Egyptian phaeros, but hey, we have to give authors a bit of leeway on the cultural things. Parts of Herzer's life also read like an adolescent male's fantasy--how about that bikini-clad elf-warrior on the cover, anyway.<br />I found myself getting angry at author John Ringo's strange belief that arming the people does much good (it certainly didn't keep Iraq or Afghanistan from totalitarian evils), but in the end, his story convinced me. The Roman legion training and the battle sequences which make up the final third of the book were a great payoff for the reading investment. Naturally, DRAGONS leaves a lot of loose ends hanging--plenty of material for sequels, but I'm looking forward to reading more.Egyptian phaeros, but hey, we have to give authors a bit of leeway on the cultural things. Parts of Herzer's life also read like an adolescent male's fantasy--how about that bikini-clad elf-warrior on the cover, anyway. <br />I found myself getting angry at author John Ringo's strange belief that arming the people does much good (it certainly didn't keep Iraq or Afghanistan from totalitarian evils), but in the end, his story convinced me. The Roman legion training and the battle sequences which make up the final third of the book were a great payoff for the reading investment. Naturally, DRAGONS leaves a lot of loose ends hanging--plenty of material for sequels, but I'm looking forward to reading more.	2004-04-15
708502:US	49115690	R30QY7DRIY9R9V	0812536479	728515099	A Wizard In Bedlam: Second Book of the Rogue Wizard! (Tor Fantasy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Revolution needed. Send for Rogue Wizard.	For hundreds of years, the churls have been oppressed, raped, murdered, and exploited by the lords who brought them to their planet. Once, a rebel leader rose from among them--DeCade. And legend of DeCade's return still fills the churls with hope. But, for runaway Churl Dirk, DeCade's legend is a problem too. An organization of runaway churls founded by DeCade's partner, the wizard, controlls the trading fleet that supplies the planet where the churls are held captive. But they cannot move until the people are ready, and the people are waiting for the return of DeCade. There have been plenty of rumors of DeCade's return over the generations, but how can a dead man return--and there is no doubt that DeCade is dead, killed by the nobility in the great rebellion.<br />Dirk is sent to investigate the latest rumor of DeCade's return and finds instead an extraplanetary nobleman, Gar. Gar is a do-gooder, wandering around the galaxy in his own spaceship, but Dirk knows that Gar is trouble--and trouble is something the nobles are quick to crack down on. A noble raiding party follows up almost as soon as Dirk and Gar meet, and Gar manages to rescue Dirk but is himself captured. Dirk is faced with the decision of trying to rescue Gar, or continuing with his mission--the mission that has been central to the lives of his consortium since DeCade's death in the first revolution.<br />Author Christopher Stasheff writes convincingly of a future world where fantasy can come true--for the few who are willing to exploit the many. Dirk and Gar make a good team with Dirk being cast in the role of Dr. Watson to Gar's Sherlock Holmes. As the protagonist, Dirk is sympathetic, caught between multiple admirable goals, taunted by the beauty just beyond his reach, and torn between the love of the land of his birth and the reality that even the churls see him as an outsider--not really one of them.<br />In his Rogue Wizard series, Stasheff presents a number of different societies in need of overthrow and revolution--with Gar the Tom Paine of his day. Although some of the books are better than others, all are entertaining. A WIZARD IN BEDLAM is the second book in the series and one of the best. I also found the martial arts details to be well researched and integrated--something that's very welcome in the fantasy world.verthrow and revolution--with Gar the Tom Paine of his day. Although some of the books are better than others, all are entertaining. A WIZARD IN BEDLAM is the second book in the series and one of the best. I also found the martial arts details to be well researched and integrated--something that's very welcome in the fantasy world.	2004-04-13
709000:US	49115690	R3A4TOFLHA4X2C	0670030643	89209679	The Eyre Affair	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Incredible imagination. This one is a winner	When a valuable original manuscript of Martin Chuzzlewit is stolen, LiteraTec Operative Thursday Next is after the thief--a brilliant former professor of hers who went terribly, terribly bad. Acheron Hades has mysterious powers over his enemies. Bullets bounce off of him. In short, he is just about the most evil man on earth, and soon to be the most powerful. For his plan isn't just to sell the manuscript or hold it for ransom. Thanks to a device invented by Thursday's uncle, Hades can actually kidnap characters from the original manuscript--even kill them--rendering every copy of the novel virtually blank or hideously corrupted.<br />When the Chuzzlewit manuscript burns, Hades sets his sights on Jane Eyre, kidnapping Jane and causing the novel to end abruptly in the middle. Thursday must chase Hades into the novel herself. Aided by her time-traveling fugitive father, a couple of loyal fellow agents, a corporation bent on world domination, and even Rochester himself, she matches wits with the most diabolical villain I've seen in a long time. But her interference in the novel's fabric has unintended results, which are beautiful to behold as the ending unfolds.<br />The Eyre Affair is a fantasy novel like none I've ever read. It's set in the recent past (1985) in England, but because of the alternate history established by the author, the setting is hardly recognizable. The Crimean war is still raging after 130 years, time travel and gene splicing are routine, no one has ever heard of Winston Churchill (he died as a child), and people travel by blimp rather than jet. England and Wales are separated by something like the Berlin Wall. And everywhere, people take literature very seriously. Fans of various authors and poets form special-interest groups with political aspirations and sometimes terrorist plots. Literary crimes such as forgery and plagiarism require an entire section of Special Operations devoted to capturing offenders.<br />Author Jasper Fforde just has an incredible imagination, with delights on every page, well-rounded characters, and even a nifty romance. This is one of the best books I've read this year, and I the others in the series (there are four so far) are on my shopping list.an incredible imagination, with delights on every page, well-rounded characters, and even a nifty romance. This is one of the best books I've read this year, and I the others in the series (there are four so far) are on my shopping list.	2004-04-13
709216:US	49115690	R2W92RW3EJNQYU	0743246020	525724505	The Prisoner of Vandam Street: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Kinky Friedman at his best	Private investigator Kinky Friedman suffers a bout of malaria and begins seeing the world in a whole new way. Part of it is visions and delusions created by the disease, but part of it may actually be a new clarity caused by the sickness, or by being shut up in his apartment with half a dozen strange men (his friends) who insist on taking care of him but who can hardly take care of themselves. When Kinky sees a woman being beaten in her apartment across the street, he's sure that this isn't a vision. When the cops respond to his 911 call and discover that the building doesn't have a third floor where the beating is supposed to have occured, Kinky isn't disuaded, but his friends begin to wonder whether this sighting is about as real as some of the other strange things he's seen.<br />More to humor Kinky than because they believe he actually saw anything, his friends start to watch the window where Kinky thought he saw the beating. But only Kinky spots the next incident--where the violence escalates. Somehow he's got to figure out how to rescue this woman who might not exist, but he's got to do it from his own apartment because his malaria leaves him to weak to move.<br />Author Kinky Friedman offers up a strange but insightful story of cat defecation, malarial visions, spousal abuse, and friendships in today's New York. THE PRISONER OF VANDAM STREET is a strange book with largely unlikable and certainly unlikely characters. But Friedman's ironic sensibilities are in full swing. I found myself reading along, chuckling at some of Friedman's thoughts on cats--only to be struck by a nugget of insight into the human condition that set me back hard on my heels.<br />Although there is humor in PRISONER, this isn't a funny book--quite the contrary. But it is the kind of book that hits you hard and sticks with you for a long time. It's Kinky Friedman at his best. Highly recommended.	2004-04-12
711925:US	49115690	R2HDNJIUSM9HLU	0553802208	514415907	The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Emotionally satisfying	He was destined for great things--until a drunk driver and a terrible mistake ended his dreams. Charlie St. Cloud recovered from the auto wreck--in the car he'd 'borrowed,' brought back to life by paramedics. His younger brother, Sam, though, died. And Charlie finds himself unable to move on, living his life in the graveyard where he buried his brother. When beautiful sailor Tess Carroll shows up in his graveyard, confused by her recent accident and still grieving for her father's death, Charlie feels an attraction stronger than any he's experienced before. But he knows that he can't enter into a relationship. His promise to stay with Sam comforts Charlie, but it also limits him. Still, there is something about Tess that's important, and that Charlie needs to understand.<br />THE DEATH AND LIFE OF CHARLIE ST. CLOUD is about life, death, and moving on. Because Sam's death--and Charlie's promise--gave Charlie the gift of seeing spirits of the recently dead as they work their way to the future. But the gift and the promise hold both Sam and Charlie in a curious halfway world between life and the promise of an afterlife.<br />Author Ben Sherwood's strong writing adds emotional depth to his story of life, hope, and the search for something meaningful in the universe. Sherwood's descriptions of everyday life in Essex County, New England and of the relationships between the major characters and their family and friends ring true and satisfying. If you're looking for a thoughtful pick-me-up, THE DEATH AND LIFE OF CHARLIE ST. CLOUD is a great choice.	2004-04-11
713670:US	49115690	R3LA8VMP538B0P	0743488156	70854276	1634: The Galileo Affair (The Assiti Shards)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Good alternate history--but needs more battles	The West Virginia town of Grantville, cast back into the midst of Germany during the 30 years war, has done pretty well for itself. Uniquely in a world where religion was a cause for war, Grantville preached tolerance. And, with the help of modern weapons and strategy and an alliance with Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden, they've been able to enforce their will--and peace--on a good part of what is now Germany. Even Austria, humbled by the rebellion of its great general Wallenstein, has backed off. Spain remains an enemy, but it has its hands full with the Netherlands. And France is too careful to risk its armies in the meat-grinder that the United States of Europe has become.<br />Still, there are more ways to defeat than the purely military and the Catholic powers dominate Europe despite the new United States. Prime Minister Stern realizes that he needs some accomodation with the Church and trade. Of the three great trading powers of 1634, England is an enemy, Holland has its own problems, but Venice is desperate for a chance to recover her past glories. Catholic Venice is, therefore, the prize in the latest game of Empire. And all sides send their best agents--the French to disrupt and discredit the Americans, the Spanish to protect themselves, and Grantville to get the materials and allies that it desperately needs.<br />Unfortunately for Grantville, its embassy includes some teenage boys who love adventure and who get caught up in the romance of rescuing Galileo from the inquisition. Never mind that Galileo was never especially badly treated, they become convinced that his rescue would be a glorious blow against entrenched power and for freedom. With a few pushes from the evil French, a hopeless plot becomes a very real danger--something that could destroy everything Stern and his allies have been working for.<br />Author Eric Flint, this time working with author Andrew Dennis has created a fascinating alternate history in his 1632 series. Rather than picking a single hero/king, Flint works from a community--a union town of coal miners and working people. It's a great idea and it works. The 1632 series is a powerful direction in alternate history. 1634: THE GALILEO AFFAIR continues in this tradition, picking up on minor characters from the earlier novels in the series or even from short stories written by others. Flint also manages to mix some romance with his military.<br />1634: THE GALILEO AFFAIR might have stepped too far in the direction of romance and away from the military. There are no battles in this book, few examples of the technological advances of the West Virginians (using the radio for clever speculation is the primary example), and a bit too much romance. All of which means that GALILEO isn't quite up to the standards set by the original 1632. It is, however, a well written and entertaining story. If you've read the earlier books, you'll definitely want to get this one. If you haven't, you'll want to get this one--and read the other ones first.ingle hero/king, Flint works from a community--a union town of coal miners and working people. It's a great idea and it works. The 1632 series is a powerful direction in alternate history. 1634: THE GALILEO AFFAIR continues in this tradition, picking up on minor characters from the earlier novels in the series or even from short stories written by others. Flint also manages to mix some romance with his military. <br />1634: THE GALILEO AFFAIR might have stepped too far in the direction of romance and away from the military. There are no battles in this book, few examples of the technological advances of the West Virginians (using the radio for clever speculation is the primary example), and a bit too much romance. All of which means that GALILEO isn't quite up to the standards set by the original 1632. It is, however, a well written and entertaining story. If you've read the earlier books, you'll definitely want to get this one. If you haven't, you'll want to get this one--and read the other ones first.	2004-04-09
714282:US	49115690	R1CKSYW5S2FG58	0553800981	465934557	Peril	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Doesn't quite live up to strong opening	Sara Labriola has had enough of abuse. Gathering up her courage, she runs away from her husband, his abusive father, and everything she owns. She has a dream of creating a new life in New York--a dream that isn't really formed, doesn't make a lot of sense, and that she doesn't dare believe that she deserves. But one thing is certain--she can't go back to the life she formerly led. Unfortunately for Sara, her father-in-law has other plans. Leo Labriola is a minor mobster who demands respect and knows that a woman's place is exactly where the dominant male puts her. In his family, he is dominant. It doesn't matter that Sara's husband, Tony, wants Sara left alone. Leo intends to have her found--and punished.<br />Private detective Stark has a recurring nightmare--that he'll lead another killer to his victim. And something about this case doesn't feel right. His nightmare is sending all sorts of warnings, but he trusts his partner and Mortimer is telling him that this is a simple deal. But Mortimer is lying--in debt to the mob for gambling losses and willing to say anything to get himself out of trouble.<br />Author Thomas H. Cook starts powerfully. Sara's terror, springing from her current situation and from long-past rapes and victimization, is horribly real painful. Leo Labriola's sidekick, Caruso is also well depicted--torn between fear and admiration for the man who took him in and whom, he hopes, will some day make him a made man in the mob--some day trust him to kill.<br />Cook's strong beginning doesn't quite carry through to the rest of the novel. There is too much coincidence in the discovery of Sara's hiding place and some characters, especially Stark, are just not that interesting. Still, Cook's writing is strong enough to pull the reader in and it certainly kept me engrossed from the fascinating beginning through the foreshadowed but still unexpected end.	2004-04-08
715904:US	49115690	R3GSKQUYDW4J3K	0312277334	743152240	The Tumbler (Gabriel Du Pre Mystery)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent and thoughtful	Violence is never far removed from Gabriel Du Pre's life. It starts when an angry girlfriend breaks in on Du Pre's band and starts shooting the bass player. But things get worse when someone attacks one of his friends and maces the friend's daughter. And the legal troubles Du Pre finds himself in over the journals he's discovered from the Lewis and Clark Expedition suddenly explode when someone starts offering big bucks for the journals--no questions asked. Du Pre isn't selling, but Indian wise man Benetsee tells Du Pre that his troubles are only starting. Before long, there will be death. And Du Pre and his friends will be in the middle of it.<br />Author Peter Bowen tells a fascinating story of old treasure, modern greed, Indian wisdom, and the west. Du Pre, Benetsee, and several of the other characters ring absolutely true and Bowen paints a vivid picture of rural life in Montana.<br />As with the other books in the Gabriel Du Pre series, THE TUMBLER is both a fascinating mystery and an even more fascinating look into character and the land. Du Pre and the other characters don't speak much and when they do, their dialect takes a bit of getting used to, but I found charm, wisdom, and a nice sense of humor combined in what they had to say. THE TUMBLER is a definite winner with plenty of red herrings, lots of people with more money than sense, and an ending that is exciting and satisfying, while being as wistful as is Bowen's picture of the dying west.	2004-04-07
717587:US	49115690	R1WIR1TWIDGYZO	0670032891	260413038	The Well of Lost Plots: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Clever, funny, with a well integrated message. Good one	Thursday Next is in trouble. Her husband has been stricken at age two and now only Thursday's memories of him keep him alive. She plans on getting him back, but a memory virus is attacking even her own memories of him. And, while the world of literature is getting ready for its annual book awards and for the release of a new book reading experience (the biggest change since the upgrade from Scroll to Book), Jurisfiction agents are vanishing or being murdered. Somehow, Thursday, who has taken refuge in a terrible detective mystery under the character exchange program, must solve the murders, keep herself alive, and regain the memories of her husband.<br />Thursday's adventures take her across multiple novels--from Sense and Sensibility to Wuthering Heights to The Stars My Destination (one of my favorites) to a variety of pot-boiler mysteries and to the mysterious Well of Lost Plots itself. In Thursday's universe, books are created from characters that are composed of words. Characters dream about moving from stock roles to having a backstory, a name, even taking over a book. Of course, there's plenty of danger and the Jurisfiction agency is responsible for ensuring that books aren't changed--say by having the evil squire actually fall in love with the chambermaid and letting them live happily ever after.<br />Author Jasper Fforde writes a very funny book, but with some serious political agendas to hone. His mix of clever ideas, cliche, and hackneyed plots (done tongue in cheek) from every new writer's first attempt at a novel kept me laughing and reading. I especially enjoyed the dramatic moment when Thursday nearly fell into the vanished boxing gym--which the author had apparently cut out to use in another book. The magical word creatures add a nice touch.<br />This is a different kind of fantasy--so much so that I considered reviewing it in general fiction rather than fantasy, but it is fantasy. Fford's strong writing, clever plot devices, and well integrated agenda all add up to a superior novel. WELL OF LOST PLOTS is definitely one to add to your must-read list.enda all add up to a superior novel. WELL OF LOST PLOTS is definitely one to add to your must-read list.	2004-04-06
717588:US	49115690	R326ZL33POB79O	0670032786	968675587	Aunt Dimity Snowbound	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Charming and funny	When her friend persuades her to break her post-Christmas funk with a hike, Lori Shepherd figures on a pleasant five hours walking through the beautiful English countryside, possibly watching lambs gamboling (whatever that is). But when she takes a wrong turn and England is hit by the blizzard of the century, Lori finds herself snowbound in a strange house--deserted except for an ancient caretaker with a shotgun, and two fellow Americans, similarly caught by the unexpected snowfall. Those, along with her stuffed rabbit and the notebook that contains the spirit of Lori's Aunt Dimity.<br />The odds of three Americans being caught by snow in one small building don't seem high and Lori is suspicious. She gets even more suspicious when Catchpole, the caretaker, tells the tragic story of the late owner of the building--and her hatred for anything American. Following Aunt Dimity's advice, Lori starts a treasure hunt for whatever the building's owner supposedly lost--or had stolen. But Lori isn't the only person hunting and her suspicions quickly turn to Wendy--the American backpacker who just happens to have a crowbar in her pack.<br />Author Nancy Atherton serves up a fun light mystery. The ghostly Aunt Dimity serves up hints for both Lori and the reader but Lori uses her own common sense and judgment as well. Wendy and Jamie, along with Catchpole are interesting and well developed characters. Lori has an unfortunate habit of being terribly attracted to one of the suspects in each of the Dimity mysteries and this is no exception. Jamie turns out to be exactly the tall handsome and intelligent types that get Lori going--husband and children not-withstanding. In this book, Lori's little weakness (which she womanfully suppresses) adds rather than detracting from the narrative.<br />Fans of light English-set cozies will definitely want to grab this one.	2004-04-06
718765:US	49115690	RGDTSJGBWQSU8	0743471768	834429865	Demon's Gate	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Quick guilty pleasure	It starts out as a normal embassy visit--warriors Khaavorn and Valdar are visiting 'the city,' center of a resurgent empire to pass on their High King's good wishes and to visit Valdar's cousin, Andonre. But the moment they get off their ship, their plans are disrupted--first by a riot, then by the arrival of a man they'd both thought long-dead. Nyrthim, a sorceror, tells them that the demons, long barred from their world, have returned. Only human sacrifice and support from the most powerful in the Empire--and in the High Kingdom could raise the energies needed to bring demons across the dimensional gates.<br />His fears are quickly justified when a demon appears. Nyrthim persuades Khaavorn and Valdar to spy for him--and what they discover is worse than they had immagined possible. A demon now rules the empire and plans to open a gate between universes, flooding their home world with powerful demons. When that happens, only one species will survive. Given the demon's near immunity to bronze-age weapons, humans seem the likely losers. To further reduce their hopes, Andonre has been converted by the humans who worship demons and have performed the tasks to bring them over.<br />Somehow, Khaavorn and Valdar must survive to get a warning back to the High King. But even that seems inadequate--because no human army seems capable of standing against a horde of demons.<br />Steve White's DEMON'S GATE makes for pleasant beach-type reading. His characters are fairly one-dimensional and don't seem to grow much during their adventures, but good old-fashioned demon-bashing and brawny barbarians are ever-popular and appealing. Like cotton candy, this book is a quick guilty pleasure.	2004-04-05
719937:US	49115690	R2XC0OGQR96R3	076530693X	193033614	Gunpowder Empire (Crosstime Traffic)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not bad but needs more of a story goal	Jeremy and Amanda Solters thought they'd just be spending summer vacation with their parents in an alternate timeline. In a near-future earth which has discovered cross-timeline travel, this is pretty standard. Our earth needs the food and resources that can be taken from other timelines and it also gives scientists and researchers a chance to really get their hands on history. When the Solters' parents have to return to their home timeline, Jeremy and Amanda are stranded in a Roman Empire where Agripola didn't die on schedule, where Augustus's conquest of Germany was successful, and where Rome still dominates Europe, threatened only by Lithuania in the north and Persia to the east.<br />Big and slow-moving empires (Gunpowder Empires) have dominated a significant part of Earth's history as they do in this alternate timeline. In our own history, the breakup of Rome created a number of smaller nation-states whose frequent wars gave rise to the cult of innovation and also allowed free-thinking scholars refuge if they fell out with their current government. In this alternate timeline, Roman tradition slowed scientific development.<br />GUNPOWDER EMPIRES follows the largely abandoned tradition of writing serious SF for young-adult readers. Author Harry Turtledove writes an approachable, almost easy-read alternate history that still manages to touch on significant moral issues (although slavery is the obvious one, it isn't really a lesson that modern readers are likely to find a lot of controversy about. More interesting is his discussion of cultural relativism--as in Jeremy's abhorance of fur coats but unthinking willingness to eat meat).<br />Even recognizing that GUNPOWDER EMPIRE is intended for young readers, I found the simplistic dialogue and the frequent repetition condescending. Also, although this is a personal preference, I prefer stories where the characters have more of a story goal. Jeremy and Amanda didn't really have anything they were trying to do, any ticking clock that they needed to work against. Instead, they merely attempted to stay alive while warfare broke out around them, and dealt with their feelings on observing a world that is different from our own, but that has many of the same characteristics.<br />GUNPOWDER EMPIRE doesn't stack up well against the great young-adult SF of Andre Norton or Robert Heinlein, but it's a good try and an interesting bit of alternate history.ticking clock that they needed to work against. Instead, they merely attempted to stay alive while warfare broke out around them, and dealt with their feelings on observing a world that is different from our own, but that has many of the same characteristics. <br />GUNPOWDER EMPIRE doesn't stack up well against the great young-adult SF of Andre Norton or Robert Heinlein, but it's a good try and an interesting bit of alternate history.	2004-04-04
720986:US	49115690	RG1MJGM2CL0VU	0425194116	545655521	Good Blood (Gideon Oliver Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Enjoyable mystery with a nice Italian setting	It was supposed to be a peaceful vacation in Italy, but when his friend's relative is kidnapped, American forensic anthropologist Gideon Oliver offers his assistance. The kidnapping was badly botched--resulting in the death of the chaufeur, but Italian police Colonel Caravale can't see any use for a high-powered bone man. They know what killed the chaufeur. Still, bones do turn up--on property owned by the aristocratic family of the kidnapped boy. And Caravale doesn't believe in coincidence. Still, could a skeleton that looks to have been underground for a decade have anything to do with a kidnapping?<br />Caravale and Gideon overcome initial distrust and begin to work together as a team--but someone is watching and knows too much. Gideon finds that the decade-old murder poses real danger to him--in the present. What started out as a vacation just might end up terminal.<br />Author Aaron Elkins combines the best elements of an Italian opera, forensic science, and an old-fashioned cozy in his well written and entertaining GOOD BLOOD. The aristocratic Italian family, with their internal feuds and snobish belief in the 'good blood' of the family, rings true as do Gideon and his friend Phil--the distant but looked down-on relative of the family who now makes his living giving cheap tours of the world. Elkins' strong descriptions make Italy come to life.<br />Aaron Elkins is an Edgar Award Winner and with GOOD BLOOD it's easy to see why. I recommend this one highly.	2004-04-03
722852:US	49115690	RFDYJO5MM5W5	074347175X	862855904	Ring of Fire (Assiti Shards)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Important and nice addition to great series	After the town of Grantville, West Virginia, is plunged into the middle of the 30 years war in 1632, everything changes. To survive, the Americans ally themselves with the Swedish protestants against the Hapsburg Catholics. But more than taking sides, they begin to spread their influence, both cultural and military, on a broader scale. In two earlier volumes in this series 1632 and 1633, author Eric Flint and colaborators detail the military and social situation as the Americans attempt to survive, create a liberal society, and deal with their own issues of cultural elitism. RING OF FIRE is a collection of short stories and a novella from this same universe.<br />As with many 'universe of' collections by multiple author, RING OF FIRE is a bit of a mixed bag. Several of the stories, in particular The Wallenstein Gambit by Eric Flint, offer significant pieces of the history and advance the general story line. Others discuss internal issues in Grantville (how the last survivor of a hippie commune comes to terms with his ideals and still gets the girl, how teenaged boys recreate junk food), or the nature of the post-Vatican II church in a world where Vatican II is probably more heretical than the protestant faiths that the local church is battling.<br />Fans of the 1632 universe (like me) will definitely want to read this one. Enough of what happens in this volume is integral to the history and much of it is well written with interesting characters. I don't recommend starting with RING, however. Although one of the stories, Power to the People does tell the original arrival story, most of the book depends on an understanding of the history of what went before.	2004-04-01
724854:US	49115690	R1JH0EJPVR2KJ8	0758204957	319290542	The Actor's Guide To Murder	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Funny mystery of a different Hollywood	...<br />Author Rick Copp does a wonderful job portraying the Hollywood that lies under the glamour that we see on television and in the magazines. Stars sell themselves for a few bucks, let their egos be defined by today's role, and let the media define their relationships and their honesty. Copp's descriptions and dialogue are frequently laugh-out-loud funny and Jarrod makes a convincing and sympathetic character. Mystery readers are likely to guess the killer a long time before Jarrod does, but that doesn't keep this short mystery from being an enjoyable read.	2004-03-31
725831:US	49115690	RGZJ8Y7E1RRIC	0451211138	984439737	Thou Shalt Not Grill (Pennsylvania Dutch Mysteries with Recipes)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Funny and cutting	Magdalena Yoder is pleased that her bed and breakfast is filled--and even more pleased that she's been able to sucker some of her guests into paying extra to help with the chores, but one of the guests is a jokester--with whoopie cushions, faked dead bodies, and handshake zappers. It's annoying to everyone--but is it annoying enough for someone to kill her. Because she gets a late night call from her brother-in-law, Hernia's (that's the city she lives in) cop. The guest has been killed and Melvin is much too busy running for office to solve the crime. It's up to Yoder to uncover the secrets, win the pig-chasing contest, and generally make sure that all of the proprieties are followed.<br />She doesn't want to believe it at first, but the evidence starts to point at her own guests. All of them seem to have a connection to Hernia--and to the legend of the treasure that is rumored to be hidden somewhere in the town. Yoder chases after legends, squabbles with her fellow townspeople, and battles with her fiance and his mother on her way toward solving the crime.<br />Author Tamar Myers creates a memorable character in Magdalena Yoder. With her bossyness and greed, she might not be the most sympathetic heroine out there, but she is funny, different, and honest. The Pennsylvania Dutch setting (Yoder is Mennonite) provides a unique atmosphere that pokes gentle fun at the religiously up-tight.<br />The setting and the characters are really the keys to this short mystery. But, although the mystery itself is a few clues short of convincing, Myers does enough with the characters to make THOU SHALT NOT GRILL well worth the read. And you've got to love those titles.	2004-03-30
727789:US	49115690	R15Y58PF4WTFYD	0312303467	15622163	Bet Me	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming fairy tale	When boyfriend David breaks up with her just weeks before her sister's wedding, Minerva Dobbs thinks her life has hit a low--she can't fit in her bridesmaid dress, thinks she's fat, works as an acturarial, and now she's dateless for the big event. But live takes a quick downturn when she overhears her ex-boyfriend and some of his friends betting on whether one of them can get her to bed in thirty days. On the other hand, Cal Morrisey is a hunk. If she can string him along, she'll have that date to the wedding. It's a plan, except that Min's emotions tend to get in the way. David was a sleaze, but Cal is close to the real fairy tale prince. And Min can't afford to have her heart broken again.<br />She may think she's fat, but Cal thinks Min is about perfect. If she'd only wear clothes that show off her figure rather than hide it. He turns on the charm not to win the bet because he wouldn't really bet on getting a woman into bed, but because he's attracted and ready to move on with his life. But Cal has his own issues and he's not sure he can deal with a woman who's always rejecting him, who likes Elvis Presley, or who keeps asking him strange questions about secrets. Still, fate seems to have plans of its own and Cal and Min can't seem to stay apart even when they try. Of course, things get serious when Min's ex-boyfriend and Cal's ex-girlfriend gang up to break up the new couple.<br />Author Jennifer Crusie creates a fresh and contemporary telling of the cinderella myth. Although the shoes are no longer glass slippers but [attractive] fruit-enhanced pumps, and the wicked stepsisters are transformed into ex's, it's still the classic fairy tale--but told with Crusie humor and insights into the human condition. Min's insecurities about her weight, her issues with her mother, and her fears about her future all ring true. And it's refreshing to see a romance heroine who doesn't think that instant pregnancy is a great thing.<br />(...)	2004-03-29
729071:US	49115690	R584HJCLLKIZX	0778320278	242336379	Dead On The Dance Floor (Graham, Heather)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable romantic suspense	When beautiful dancer Lara Trudeau dies while dancing of a drug overdose, the police are quick to write it off as another tragic accident of perscription drug abuse. But one cop isn't so sure--and he gets his brother, ex-FBI profiler and private investigator Quinn O'Casey to look into the case. The obvious suspect is another dancer, Shannon Mackay. Shannon has lost her partner and her lover to Lara several years earlier and an 'accident' on the dance floor had cost her her competitive career. But Quinn likes Shannon--likes her a lot. Of course, there's really only one thing he's sure of--his own judgment is fatally flawed.<br />Quinn puts Lara's case together with several other drug-related deaths that seem connected to the dance studio where Lara and Shannon worked. It could be coincidence, but Quinn doesn't believe in coincidence. He signs up for dance lessons, starts to fall for Shannon, and learns that she is chased by her own demons--or maybe by something far more real than mythical demons. It's tough enough solving a case, but both Shannon and Quinn have major issues they need to work for before they can deal with the attraction that flows between them like, well, like a dance.<br />Author Heather Graham writes convincingly of the world of ballroom dance and of sultry southern Florida. Damaged but hunky Quinn makes a great foil for frightened but spunky Shannon. Their issues parallel and they find that working through together gives each of them strength to admit their true goals. Of course, before any kind of long-term romance can develop, they'll have to stay alive. And someone seems intent on making sure that doesn't happen.<br />DEAD ON THE DANCE FLOOR is an enjoyable romance.	2004-03-28
729560:US	49115690	R27EKD5TKZM6EY	0373691718	308412239	It Should Happen To You	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Contemporary but with some serious topics	Mickey Coleman has a problem. One of her co-workers, a semi-cute intern, took a video of the one time Mickey had a few drinks too many and had sex with him. The intern is blackmailing her to do it again, but for Mickey, the sex wasn't that great. So, when her friend Beth tells her she knows a criminal-type who can help, Mickey decides to give it a whirl. Dominic Corlucci is a dangerous man. Connected in the Chicago Mafia, damaged by youthful mistakes, and fighting a losing battle for self-respect, Dominic knows that he should just tell Mickey to move on. The combination of her great legs, her story, and pure chemistry keeps him from doing it--even though he knows he's playing with fire. He agrees to help Mickey--if she'll go out to dinner with him.<br />Mickey doesn't do men. She's a scientist, an astronomer who knows more about the stars than she does about the male of the species. But she knows she's found something special with Dominic. He creates sparks she's never imagined before--but he's a Mafia goomba type. She tells herself that she'll be bad just once, but how can she keep herself from falling into his arms again, every time he'll take her.<br />Author Kathleen O'Reilly maintains the light tone of the series but introduces the more serious topics of abuse, organized crime, and official corruption into her story. Mickey makes a great heroine, conflicted by her ambition at work and her hormonal attraction to the dangerous Dominic. And Dominic is the type of damaged hero that women just want to fix--especially since he's six-foot something of pure muscle and sex.<br />As with the other books in this series, much of the pleasure comes from the relationship between the four women: Beth, Mickey, Cassandra, and the newly married Jessica. Instant messaging gives the story a contemporary feel and lets the characters interact and display their emotions in a fun and unusual way.	2004-03-27
730051:US	49115690	R3SVSY7V4CG5YE	0821774409	381506827	Beyond My Dreams (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sizzling Egypt romantic adventure	Five thousand years ago, King Menes united upper and lower Egypt and created a unique crown--the pshent. According to legend, whoever holds that crown can rule the world. And one man, more than any other, believes he is up to the challenge. Napoleon Bonaparte occupies Egypt and has hired every crew to search the deserts and find him the unique crown. But Engishman Gavin McLeod, Earl of Blackwell, intends to find the crown first and return it to King George. He hires the last digging crew available, not knowing that its captain is the beautiful and very female Mackenzie (Mac) Tuggle.<br />Mac has devoted her life to taking care of her father and his aging crew--the men Gavin has hired. But she doesn't know if she can even take care of herself where Gavin is concerned. The physical attraction is obvious, and mutual, but Gavin guards his heart with strong walls. He was betrayed before, by a woman, and swears he'll never let it happen again. At any rate, Gavin is an Aristocrat, more comfortable in the drawing rooms of London. And Mac loves Egypt. Although she's English, she wants to spend her life in the exotic land of the Pharaohs.<br />In an exciting adventure that takes them through the ruins of ancient Egypt and the streets of revolutionary France, Mac and Gavin battle the French, nature, and their growing love for one another. Each knows that the other is wrong for them, but neither can keep away.<br />Author Tammy Hilz has written a compelling and fast-moving adventure. The sexual attraction between Gavin and Mac sizzles and Gavin makes a wonderful wounded hero. But Hilz excels in her descriptions of action, combining physical danger with the growing emotional risks that her protagonists put themselves in. Hilz fans will delight in seeing returning characters Jake and Sarah from SHADOW OF THE SUN but this book definitely belongs to Gavin and especially the delightful Mac.<br />This is a good one.	2004-03-27
730802:US	49115690	R2SLJJOK4B86CP	0060505737	569988195	The Ideal Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Super-sexy historical thriller	Michael Anstruther-Wetherby has a challenge. There's an opportunity to move into the British cabinet, but only if he can do so as a married man--married to the right kind of woman. Because in 1825 England, women control society and can make or break a man's career. Michael identifies a candidate, Elizabeth, the daughter of a neighbor, and moves in. But his plans don't take into account the schemes of Elizabeth's aunt Caro. Elizabeth has fallen in love with another man and begs Caro to help her fend Michael off. Caro is willing and her plan works--sort of. Because Michael is soon convinced that Elizabeth isn't his perfect bride after all--Caro is.<br />Caro has never really recovered from her marriage to an aging diplomat. Although she was successful as a society hostess and made her late husband even more powerful, she has always known that he married her only for her political insights and not out of love. As a widow, Caro has a certain power--power she's sworn never to give up by marrying another. Michael may be sexy and strong, she might even consider an affair with him, but marriage--never. Of course, Michael isn't going to give up on his goals. But he'll take whatever path comes open and an affair sounds like the perfect first step. Things really get complicated, though, when Michael discovers that someone is trying to kill Caro.<br />Author Stephanie Laurens writes a steamy-sexy story. Caro is an interesting damaged character--filled with strength but still wounded from her former marriage. Michael is a fine alpha hero, fiercely protective of his woman and forceful in his lovemaking. Fans of Laurens' books will find a lot to like here, including appearances from some of the Cynster men who were heros in earlier novels.<br />Several errors pulled me out of the story (note: this review is based on an early review copy. Some or all of these may have been corrected in the published volume). Although it's a minor point, the Austrian general who claims that Austria has no seacoast is living in the post-World War I world rather than in 1825 when the book is set. At that time, the Austrian empire included much of northern Italy (including Venice) and Croatia. It had a seacoast and a navy. Later, Caro refers to Michael as a 'prehistoric caveman.' That term hadn't yet been introduced. More fundamentally, I found the action-packed conclusion to be unconvincing. Surely the intelligent Caro could have come up with a smarter plan to save her love. Also, alpha heros are a matter of taste but I think Michael's decision not to tell Caro about the pellets in her horse (which almost killed her) and his plan to get her pregnant were both unattractive. In contrast, Caro is a highly likable character who's easy to identify with and cheer for as she faces her own problems and the deadly threat to her life.<br />If you like sexy stories set in an England where the aristocracy still reigns supreme, where manners still matter and where a woman's every gesture can be packed with meaning, you'll find a lot to like in THE IDEAL BRIDE.ia has no seacoast is living in the post-World War I world rather than in 1825 when the book is set. At that time, the Austrian empire included much of northern Italy (including Venice) and Croatia. It had a seacoast and a navy. Later, Caro refers to Michael as a 'prehistoric caveman.' That term hadn't yet been introduced. More fundamentally, I found the action-packed conclusion to be unconvincing. Surely the intelligent Caro could have come up with a smarter plan to save her love. Also, alpha heros are a matter of taste but I think Michael's decision not to tell Caro about the pellets in her horse (which almost killed her) and his plan to get her pregnant were both unattractive. In contrast, Caro is a highly likable character who's easy to identify with and cheer for as she faces her own problems and the deadly threat to her life. <br />If you like sexy stories set in an England where the aristocracy still reigns supreme, where manners still matter and where a woman's every gesture can be packed with meaning, you'll find a lot to like in THE IDEAL BRIDE.	2004-03-26
738436:US	49115690	R3B9III4J3BU88	037369167X	756796120	Pillow Talk	Books	5	1	1	N	N	fun, comtemporary, but thoughtful. Very nice indeed.	Jessica Barnes and her girlfriends have almost given up on love and marriage. For Jessica, the alternative is competition and success in business. She's on track to become the first Vice President ever from her Chicago union family and lusts after a Porche almost as much as she does over the hunky consultant her firm has hired. Unfortunately, the hunky consultant, Adam Taylor, is the problem. His job is to polish the company she works for as an acquisition target--and if that happens, Jessica is going to be out the door rather than through the glass ceiling.<br />Adam Taylor is good at what he does and what he does is help companies maximize their profits by doing more with fewer workers. Sure he finds Jessica attractive, but that doesn't mean he can escape the brutal logic of the numbers. Fortunately, Adam has a better plan. He'll persuade Jessica to give it all up and help him pursue his dream--the house he already owns in Alabama needs a wife and kids. And Adam's homey fantasies have suddenly gotten a lot more concrete with Jessica in every picture. Unfortunately for his fantasy life, Jessica is a Chicago girl and wouldn't recognize a stove or vacuum cleaner if they bit her. Still, Adam can be very persuasive.<br />Author Kathleen O'Reilly writes with fast contemporary pacing and delivers a sexy, funny, but thoughtful story. Jessica's friendship with her girlfriends was strong and well integrated into the plot and conflict as well as introducing readers to the protagonists in later books in this series.<br />PILLOW TALK is a fine example of a new wave in category romance--one where a woman is allowed to have friends and a career as well as a man. It's a welcome trend and O'Reilly does a great job with it.	2004-03-20
738645:US	49115690	R1PL0HDBISXNOB	0060008032	568824372	Angels	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Laugh out loud funny	Fired from her job and with her marriage in shambles, Maggie Garvin decides to leave Dublin and visit her best friend Emily in Los Angeles, where she hopes the endless sunshine, white sand beaches, and the warmth of her friend's unconditional love will heal her broken heart.  What she finds is that her friend is<br />having her own crisis--her burgeoning career as a screenwriter is about to crash and burn.<br />The two women comfort each other and offer (usually bad) advice as they try to extract themselves from an emotional quagmire with mindless sex, irresponsible shopping and \\"complicated martinis.\\"  As Maggie floats along in the plastic world that is La-La land, the reader learns through flashbacks the tragedies thatled to the break-up of her marriage.<br />This was one of the funniest books I've read in a long time, with passages that had me hooting with laughter and following my husband around the house reading scenes out loud so he could appreciate them.  But it also brought a tear to my eye.  And though this book broke several rules of good storytelling (the heroine, for example, is not the driving force of her own story<br />and has no goals to speak of) I still loved it.  The conclusion was very satisfying as Maggie finally figures out what she wants--and gets it.	2004-03-20
739155:US	49115690	R1TQ3PGAUNVHQG	0060563893	322269217	Blue Blood (Debutante Dropout Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Snicker out loud	Drop-out debutante Andrea \\"Andy\\" Kendrick receives a plea out of the blue from her former best friend from prep school. Molly O'Brien, whom Andy's high-society mother, Cissy, calls \\"that scholarship girl,\\" has been arrested for murder and she wants Andy to take care of her little boy.<br />Though Andy hasn't heard from Molly in ten years, she jumps into the fray--rescuing the boy (and dumping him at her mother's Highland Park mansion, much to Cissy's dismay). She just knows Molly could never possibly kill someone under any circumstances, and she is determined to prove her friend's innocence. With the help of Molly's inexperienced (but cute) lawyer, Andy delves into the mystery, going so far as to get herself hired at the \\"Hooters\\"-type restaurant where the murder took place, and where Molly worked as a waitress. In purple hot pants and a stuffed bra, she gathers the evidence against the suspects, which include a randy televangelist, a former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader, a rabid activist who regularly pickets the restaurant, a mysterious silent partner, and a host of sexually harassed waitresses.<br />This is a cute read, with an amusingly eccentric cast of characters. Though I felt Andy was inexcusably reckless at times (like when she barges into a motel room where she knows the possible murderer is having illicit sex), I couldn't help cheering for her. And though the humor felt a bit forced in places, I did snicker out loud several times. This is a must-read for anyone within or on the fringes of Dallas high society. The author certainly nails that world.	2004-03-20
739291:US	49115690	R3989LIZUIKNMY	0743471563	547908554	This Scepter'd Isle (The Doubled Edge, Book 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Henry VIII, baby Elizabeth, and Elves. Entertaining	Seers in both Selieghe and Unselieghe courts see two visions of the future. In one, Queen Mary rules England, enforces the grim rule of the Church and the Inquisition, and destroys the Elf-court of Avalon. In the other, a red-headed child grows to create a new England--one that practices tolerance and that creates a flowering of literature, art and science. For both, the choice of the future is critical. The Selieghe would be destroyed by the inquisition as surely as the elf-courts of Spain had been. The Unselieghe will gain power from the suffering.<br />Open battle between the two courts is impossible and too-overt manipulation in the affairs of mortal men has its own danger, but this doesn't prevent them from sending their agents into Henry VIII's England. The Selieghe see the bastard son of Henry as a key to the child of prophesy and send Demoriel, one of their warriors, to protect him. The Unselieghe send Demoriel's half-brother to thwart him. The result is a battle that unfolds over a decade as King Henry seeks a legitimate son, a child who can secure the English throne and prevent it from becoming a tool of the Spanish or French. Because a ruling Queen must marry, and whomever she marries would soon control England.<br />Authors Mercedes Lackey and Roberta Gellis combine to create an intriguing alternate history set in England at the dawn of the modern age. Elves and men conspire and plot to chose the next Queen of England, to strengthen or weaken the bonds of Church over State, and to gain control of the future in a pivotal moment in history. Lackey and Gellis add amusing jaunts through the 'underhill,' letting the reader savor the joys of magic.<br />There's a lot to like about a story that brings history to life, adds a bit of magic, and is written by two such accomplished authors. (Baen makes the offer even more intriguing by including a CD-ROM (in the hardback version, at least) with the full text to at least 40 other Baen novels). Still, I found myself feeling somewhat cheated at the end. After all, Mary did become Queen and did her best to bring back the Catholic church with all of its late-medieval cruelty and oppression. Elizabeth was protected and did become the Queen that maintained England's independence, allowed writers including Shakespear to flourish, and began the global trading empire that grew into the largest and most powerful nation in the world--but was Harry FitzRoy really that critical?<br />THIS SCEPTER'D ISLE is an enjoyable read. I certainly recommend it to anyone interested in Henry VIII and his many wives--and to those who track the doings of the elf-courts. Still, am I the only one who thinks authors with the talent of Lackey and Gellis couldn't have done a bit more?lf feeling somewhat cheated at the end. After all, Mary did become Queen and did her best to bring back the Catholic church with all of its late-medieval cruelty and oppression. Elizabeth was protected and did become the Queen that maintained England's independence, allowed writers including Shakespear to flourish, and began the global trading empire that grew into the largest and most powerful nation in the world--but was Harry FitzRoy really that critical? <br />THIS SCEPTER'D ISLE is an enjoyable read. I certainly recommend it to anyone interested in Henry VIII and his many wives--and to those who track the doings of the elf-courts. Still, am I the only one who thinks authors with the talent of Lackey and Gellis couldn't have done a bit more?	2004-03-19
743211:US	49115690	R2IMWGYJXXOHHR	0758204582	657137574	Cereal Killer: A Savannah Reid Mystery (Savannah Reid Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Someone is killing the plus-sized models of L.A.	When Private Detective Savannah Reid gets a call from her police ex-partner, she doesn't hesitate to check out the case. For one thing, the dead woman is a famous plus-size supermodel and Savannah is a plus-sized private investigator. For another, Savannah's sister, Marietta, is visiting and Savannah is looking for an excuse to get away before she has to hear any more about the dream date Marietta found over the Internet. The death looks natural--the woman appeared to have died of heat and dehydration as she attempted to lose weight for a diet cereal commercial, but there are a few suspicious signs. And suspicion grows to certainty when another plus-sized model is found run over.<br />Author G. A. McKevett uses an approachable first-person style and mixes up a humerous blend of personality traits and adventure to make CEREAL KILLER a fast and fun read. Savannah's life philosophy (the way to prevent carbohydrate sugar bounce is to buy a half-dozen maple sticks rather than just two) will appeal to many readers, but she has her serious side too--and it's hard not to identify with her desire to hunt down whomever might be killing these beautiful women.<br />From a mystery perspective, I would have liked to see a few more suspects, and from a personality perspective, I would have liked it if Savannah had, occasionally realized that she was being as opinionated and judgemental about others as she was, but these may be personal likes and neither is really a flaw in this short novel. The pathetic romantic subplot of Savannah's sister and Savannah's own empty lovelife provide a subtle echo to the problems in the mystery--adding depth to a well written story.	2004-03-17
743864:US	49115690	RBGI5C1JBW09Z	0312873891	344388478	Illumination	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very high potential/worldbuilding. Some story flaws	The day she passes her exams and becomes a full illuminator/mage, Liath abruptly loses her power. She still has the light within her--the light that marks her as a potentially powerful mage, but without the ability to cast, she is nothing. Nothing, that is, except a trap. Because the rulers of the island have detected a renegade--one of their own who has turned to the magic of death and darkness. The darkmage, Torrin, desperately needs the power of a bright illuminator. Magic is strongest when cast in threes--scribers, illuminators, and binders. Torrin is a powerful scriber. He won't be able to resist Liath's light.<br />Liath's search for Torrin takes her over the island and lets her see the way that the old order is breaking down. Mages exist to serve, but too many are being called and too little is being returned. The heads of the mages have lost touch with the people. Still, when Liath finally reachs Torrin, she can't believe what he tells her--that everything is a lie. Of course, what else would the darkmage say and, even though she is powerless, he harbors fantasies that he'll be able to use her light, to recreate her power.<br />Author Terry McGarry offers a strange and beautiful world and magic system. The triads, which prevail through magic and everything else in her world, make a strange kind of logic. McGarry has fully developed the world Liath and Torrin live in--you can almost feel the power of McGarry's research behind the words--although the book is fairly long, I suspect that McGarry has notebooks upon notebooks of family trees, biographies, and personal histories. While this background is fascinating, it can also detract from the story. And story is one area where Illumination falls a bit short. I enjoyed the novel, but I would have liked to see Liath have more of a personal stake in the story goal. Her search for Torrin, with the promised reward that the Ennead might be able to heal her--when they'd already failed--doesn't ring true for me. Her indecision and conflict when Torrin shares his side of the story is convincing but, after all, indecision doesn't make for compelling action.<br />McGarry's writing and world-building are strong enough to overcome these story weaknesses and I certainly enjoyed ILLUMINATION. This was McGarry's first book. I look forward to reading more and seeing if she evens out the rough spots and fulfills her promise in becoming one of the fine fantasy writers of today.ndecision and conflict when Torrin shares his side of the story is convincing but, after all, indecision doesn't make for compelling action. <br />McGarry's writing and world-building are strong enough to overcome these story weaknesses and I certainly enjoyed ILLUMINATION. This was McGarry's first book. I look forward to reading more and seeing if she evens out the rough spots and fulfills her promise in becoming one of the fine fantasy writers of today.	2004-03-16
748018:US	49115690	RXZIQ579W542C	1413701930	743079304	Jump Start	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable tale of dragons, pyramids, and the world's end	A failed scientist discovers bones in Death Valley--bones that look like nothing on earth, nothing, that is, but a dragon. An archeologist discovers a huge pyramid buried under the sands of Australia. An astronomer sees a huge number of small meteors approaching Earth. They seem unconnected, but when the meteors arrive, they become something more terrible than anyone had guessed--a plague of dragons intent on eating and growing. And anything, any biomass, even people, are their natural prey. Earth's government and her military fight back, but how do you fight a huge fast-moving and virtually invisible opponent?<br />Scientists Jacob Malfusco and Marsha Kimbrough were on downward career spirals before their discoveries. At first it is difficult to believe that a nine-thousand year-old dragon skeleton and mankind's sudden advance in intelligence could be connected, but something happened about nine thousand years ago. Humans that had lived together in villages and hunted with crudely chipped stones suddenly discovered agriculture, advanced to the new stone age, built pyramids and stonehenge-style monuments. Marsha suspects that there is a connection--and the connection comes from space. It isn't a popular theory, even when the dragons land and prove the theory to be fact.<br />Author Gary Carter writes a page-turning adventure. The dragon hypothesis explains mankind's intelligence explosion, but also mass die-offs that have happened throughout planetary history. Jacob and Marsha make intriguing and flawed characters. The dragon attack drags them from their bad habits and makes them rethink their lives. Of course, rethinking their lives will only pay off if they survive long enough to enjoy them. And the dragon attack is so overwhelming that they sometimes wonder whether humanity is finished. The example of the last invasion, and St. George's elimination of the last dragon in that attack provides some hope--but only some.<br />Fans of alien explanations of the pyramids, dragons, and end-of-the-world fiction will definitely want to get their hands on Gary Carter's JUMP START.ids, dragons, and end-of-the-world fiction will definitely want to get their hands on Gary Carter's JUMP START.	2004-03-13
754779:US	49115690	R2G0F2VEL492XQ	0061053775	196352270	Cold Case	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nicely done female cop story	San Francisco detective Kate Gillespie has no idea the hornet's nest she's about to stir up when she goes on TV, pleading for leads in a three-year-cold murder case. Soon she has an intriguing lead from a \\"Jane Doe\\" that puts Kate at the scene of a bank robbery/murder in progress. The bank robbery offers a clue--bullets that came from the same gun as the cold-case murder.<br />Soon Kate is knee-deep in a colorful cast of characters and suspects--a sexy gangster; the gangster's ex-wife, who goes by several different aliases and is currently missing; the ex-wife's transexual brother, \\"Louise\\"; the dead banker's non-grieving widow. Then there are the good guys, including her potential lover, Mike Torrance, formerly with the San Francisco police and now the FBI, and his oddly unemotional and far-too-pretty partner.<br />This book is nonstop action--driving here, questioning this suspect, tracing phone records, fingerprints, background checks, car chases, shootings, stalkings. It's a great deal of fun. And if I occasionally got lost in the complex twists and turns of the plot--there were some convoluted scenes with name after name after name thrown out until my head spun--most of the time I didn't care that I didn't know what was going on. I certainly gave up trying to figure it out and assumed all would be explained, which it was.<br />Kate Gillespie is a likeable, competent, no-nonsense heroine with just that hint of feminine vulnerability that makes me relate to her. I look forward to the next installment of her relationship with Torrance.	2004-03-08
754946:US	49115690	R13S9EVS2KUMUP	0441011322	215655075	Conqueror's Moon (Boreal Moon Tale)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Strong writing overcomes unsympathetic characters	When Didion not only rejected Cathra's claim of sovereignty, it executed the ambassadors, Prince Conrig of Cathra decides to claim the sovereignty by force. Of course, there's the little matter of getting an army across the high and well-defended mountains that separate the two nations, but Conrig has a plan for that--a plan based on the magical powers of the beautiful Princess Ullanoth. In return, she asks his support in her plans to be the next Queen of her own kingdom and plenty of money. Of course, a more fertile relationship isn't to be ruled out either--if Conrig's current wife can be dealt with.<br />Conrig's plans would have failed quickly if not for the efforts of a young servant--Snudge. Snudge has a wild magical talent--one that even practiced mages cannot detect. The talent allows him to detect enemies spying on the prince--and track them to their hiding places. On one spy he discovers a stone that allows invisibility--a powerful tool for a spy or for a commando.<br />Author Julian May offers a fascinating world and magical system. The political infighting and backbiting all ring true. Unlike much fantasy, May doesn't portray a battle of good against evil. All of the major characters, with the possible exception of the thief/spy Snudge, are morally ambivalent. Cathra's desire to conquer its neighbor may have been motivated by Didion's murder of the ambassadors, but Conrig would have attempted the conquest without the excuse. Although May's world is more real as a result of this decision, it also distances the reader from the action. Since we don't really like any of the characters (again with the possible exception of Snudge), it is hard to care too much whether Conrig's military adventure is successful or not.<br />The sympathetic character of Snudge and May's strong writing work, however. I found myself getting emeshed in the story and wanting to find out what would happen next--even when I found the characters largely unsympthetic.	2004-03-08
755023:US	49115690	R3RSLEKZPGKM78	1575668777	195952845	Polished Off (Charlotte LaRue Mystery Series, Book 3)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Cute concept, problems in execution	When one of her clients discovers a skeleton in an ornamental pot, cleaning lady Charlotte LaRue tells herself that it's none of her business. But when Charlotte discovers that the body is the ex-boyfriend of one of her employees--a woman who is now her niece by marriage, she knows that she'll have to involve herself. Because it isn't long before her niece disappears, her nephew is charged with murder, and Charlotte herself is stuck taking care of their young child.<br />A cleaning lady who solves mysteries is a cute concept and New Orleans, where the books are located, makes a charming setting. Author Barbara Colley is a smooth and professional writer who keeps the pages turning as she introduces a tangle of long-lost love, blackmail, and political corruption.<br />Unfortunately, I found Charlotte LaRue to be an unlikable character. She is hypercritical of those around her, unsympathetic to her clients' concerns, and completely self-absorbed. Together with Colley's reliance on coincidence (how likely is it that Charlotte would be in one suspect's office just as he receives a suspicious call? How did the criminals arrange that Patsy end up with the pot? What are the odds of Charlotte's showing up just in time to see the bones? Would the first person connected with Tulane University that Charlotte thinks of really know the private life of her students and be able to tell Charlotte all about it?), and unexplained behavior (why, exactly, did Nadia do her disappearing act?) I found myself pulled out of the story.	2004-03-08
756948:US	49115690	R4DT5EO0XVKMW	0060083956	843453239	Mr. Paradise	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Missing the Elmore Leonard twist	When her friend Chloe Robinette suggests that Kelly Ann Barr join her in a topless cheerleading session for Chloe's aging Mr. Paradise, Kelly finally lets herself get talked into it. She likes Chloe, wants to help her, and a few hundred dollars never hurts. But nasty cheerleading turns into something far worse when gunmen break in and murder the old man. Now Kelly is caught in a trap. If she talks, she might be next. One thing she knows, Mr. Paradise was rich--and there's money in this somewhere.<br />Detroit homicide detective Frank Delsa doesn't think it's shock. The beautiful blonde knows more than she's telling. But is she in with the killers, or is she playing some other game. One thing Delsa has learned in his years as a cop--the criminals are always stupid and always make mistakes. Of course cops can make mistakes now and it doesn't take a genius to realize that the instant attraction he feels toward Kelly is dangerous. What, exactly, is her relationship to the primary witness, African-American Montez Taylor? And what motive for murder do either of them have?<br />Author Elmore Leonard always writes a fast-paced and interesting book and MR. PARADISE certainly fits the pattern. It's a hard book to put down as Leonard makes you feel like there's another twist coming. For me, though, this was the problem with the book. Unlike many of Leonard's stories, MR. PARADISE lacked the clever twists, the too-smart plans, and the street-smart cleverness of many of Leonard's works. I kept waiting for Kelly's hidden plan to reveal itself--waiting and waiting. I kept waiting for the hidden subtext of the too-spontaneous relationship between Delsa and Kelly. She's a Victoria's Secrets model, after all. What would she see in a bitter and much older cop? I'm still waiting.<br />I don't think Elmore Leonard can write a bad book and MR. PARADISE isn't bad. For me, though, it has too many hints of where it could have been a great book--without really delivering. This isn't one of Leonard's masterpieces and that's too bad. But any Leonard novel is worth the read.f Leonard's masterpieces and that's too bad. But any Leonard novel is worth the read.	2004-03-06
758830:US	49115690	R2JI3JCYB1XFRJ	0312323190	450252146	SPQR VIII: The River God's Vengeance (The SPQR Roman Mysteries)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great fun. Fascinating historical mystery	Roman tenement apartments fall down all the time and aedile Decius Caecilius Metellus figures this is just another straightforward prosecution of building code violations. But as he investigates, he discovers that the pattern of late Roman Republican corruption has spread even further into the city than he had imagined. The building collapse might not be just bad building materials, but premeditated murder. And his investigations put him in both physical danger and at odds with his powerful family. And then there are the filthy sewers. With the Tiber River set to flood, the sewers seem ready to back up. To a good Roman, the crimes threaten to go beyond criminal all the way to impious.<br />Decius makes a wonderful and memorable character with his offhand comments on Roman society, on figures like Caesar, Pompey, and Cicero that have become history, and with his strangely consistent attitudes toward corruption and friendship. This case pushes Decius outside of his comfort zone--making him deal with the one man he hates more than any other--the stuffy Cato. It also gives him plenty of opportunity to walk the streets of ancient Rome, dodge the gangs fighting for control of the dying republic, and give his pithy observations on the curious and fascinating social structures that made Rome work.<br />Author John Maddox Roberts does a fine job recreating a critical period in world history, delivering an interesting mystery that fits the historical period, and offering a fascinating first-person protagonist. I found myself laughing out loud at Decius's observations on his world--and his thoughts on humanity in general. Roberts's writing is fast-paced and compelling. I read the book in a single sitting then checked to make sure there weren't more books in the series that I need to get my hands on right away. I recommend THE RIVER GOD'S VENGEANCE to anyone who enjoys history, democratic government, or a rollicking good mystery.	2004-03-05
759456:US	49115690	R1HCBUFH4LOBJC	0765308754	249733757	The Destroyer Goddess: In Fire Forged, Part 2 (In Fire Forged, 2)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Best book in a very nice series	The Valdani have finally left Sileria after hundreds of years of occupation but now the water lords, led by their powerful chief Kiloran, intend to take over. Their rule, should they be successful, will be far harsher and far more complete than anything the Valdani dreamed of. And all that stands in their way are a handful of guardians (fire mages) and Tansen--a great warrior to be sure, but hardly a cult leader like his brother, now killed by Kiloran. Things only get worse for Tansen when the great fire-mage and prophet, Mirabar--the woman he loves despite her cruelty to him--decides to marry a crazy waterlord. They need dissension among the waterlords, but Tansen hates the idea that any man but he will touch Mirabar.<br />Tansen, along with his adopted son, do their best to stir up troubles among the waterlords, playing them off against each other. But the prophecies require children to be born for real freedom--and Kiloran's assassins are doing their best to kill any of the likely candidates.<br />Author Laura Resnick has created a fascinating magical world. Tansen and the half-Valdani lord Ronall, in particular, come to life as flawed but fascinating characters. The magic system with its battles between water and fire magic is fully developed and very nice. Resnick's word pictures of the water magic are especially powerful.<br />THE DESTROYER GODDESS is the strongest of the three novels in this series. The plot is more tightly integrated as the characters come together for the resolution of the centuries-old struggle between fire and water, between the Society and the Guardians, and between the peasants and the sea. Even the gods come ito play in this one.<br />The novel could be read as a stand-alone but readers will find it more interesting if they read the three novels in the order they were written.	2004-03-04
760564:US	49115690	R3ODUNXQ3YK9Q0	0312322836	207290202	Reap a Wicked Harvest: A Gardening Mystery (Gardening Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Clever emotional story	Nothing ruins a party like finding a dead body in the middle of it. That's the challenge facing widowed florist and amateur sleuth Bretta Solomon when she attends the &quot;Customer Appreciation Day&quot; festivities put on by her friends, Natalie and Dan Parker of Parker Greenhouse. The dead young woman, a recently hired employee at the greenhouse, has a sharp object in her throat and a cryptic note near her body indicating she had scheduled a meeting with someone.<br />Though the sheriff and Bretta have had their tiffs in the past over Bretta's snooping, this time Sid welcomes Bretta's help. He's facing a reelection campaign and wants this crime solved by whatever means possible. Also lending a hand is Bretta's father, who thinks it would be just dandy to open a father-daughter detective agency. But even without the encouragement, Bretta can't help herself, especially when a few clues just fall in her lap and the sheriff can't put two and two together. Soon it appears the victim had been doing some sleuthing of her own and died for her troubles.<br />This was a lovely who-dunnit peopled with interesting characters, richly drawn and each with problems and a history of his own. I didn't guess the solution, though the clues were there. The crime itself was a bit improbable--I believe the villain's goals could have been achieved with far less trouble and intrigue. But by the time it all came together at the end, I'd been so entertained I didn't care. A clever and emotional story.	2004-03-03
762327:US	49115690	R2LI9EDXGBH3DX	034544356X	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Gruesome, sexy, and darkly fascinating	Meredith Gentry, princess of the Unseelie court, has a problem. Her cousin will do anything to kill her--and anything for an immortal is quite a bit. If Meredith can get pregnant, however, she'll become heir and be largely out of danger. With a male harem of willing bodyguards and a huge sex drive that doesn't sound like it should be much of a problem for Merry. Except fertility is terribly low amongst the sedhe and she seems to be no exception. In the meantime, court politics continue and Merry has more enemies than just her cousin--including perhaps, her aunt, the Queen of the Unseelie court.<br />When she's invited to the Seelie court for a ball in her honor, Merry has no choice but to go--to refuse would show weakness, something no one of faerie can afford. But first, she needs to make a trip to the Unseelie Court and shore up her rough relationship with her aunt. Strange things are happening, however and Merry seems involved in awakening magic that had been lost for generations or more. The long-lost caldron/grail shows up in Merry's dream and then materializes and she is able to restart a long-dead magical spring in the Unseelie Court itself. But she is still mortal--and a few good tricks don't seem likely to stop her aunt who is on a murderous rage.<br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton cooks up a fascinating world of sex, violence, perversion, and power in her Meredith Gentry series. All of these, sex, politics and blood are connected and Merry finds herself torn between the lessons of her father--assassinated for his weakness--and those of her aunt who kills without compunction. Since she awakens magical powers through sex or blood, there is plenty of opportunity for both--especially when her blood-covered appearance in the Unseelie Court causes magical challenges against her--and her aunt.<br />SEDUCED BY MOONLIGHT moves a bit slowly. Merry has ample time to sample her males, negotiate with the goblins and fey, and generally go about her business of awakening magic. Lack of a ticiking clock generally weakens a story but in this case, the story is the characters--how Merry and her guard/harem deal with her powerful aunt and with one another as they vie to become the male who impregnates her and becomes consort to the heir. I find Hamilton's writing to be strangely fascinating and her best-selling status proves that I'm not alone. But SEDUCED BY MOONLIGHT is not for the faint of heart--it's graphic, often grotesque, and darkly compelling. Give it a try--but you may want to read the books in order.magic. Lack of a ticiking clock generally weakens a story but in this case, the story is the characters--how Merry and her guard/harem deal with her powerful aunt and with one another as they vie to become the male who impregnates her and becomes consort to the heir. I find Hamilton's writing to be strangely fascinating and her best-selling status proves that I'm not alone. But SEDUCED BY MOONLIGHT is not for the faint of heart--it's graphic, often grotesque, and darkly compelling. Give it a try--but you may want to read the books in order.	2004-03-02
763542:US	49115690	RJ85MAIC15FX3	0060085452	27148357	Boy Meets Girl (The Boy Series)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Fun, fast, and easy	Kate MacKenzie has problems enough, what with breaking up with her boyfriend of ten years (just on the eve of his million-dollar record deal) and not having a place to live and working for the biggest witch in New York, Amy Jenkins, Director of Human Resources. When evil Amy forces Kate to fire the very popular dessert lady, Kate ends up being named in the unlawful termination lawsuit. What she doesn't need is to tall in love with the lawyer handling the arbitration, Mitch Hertzog, who also happens to be the brother of Amy's fiance, who caused all the trouble with the dessert lady in the first place.<br />Told through a series of e-mails, Instant Messages, phone messages, journal entries, menus, recipes, receipts and other miscellaneous written documentation, this story is a quick and easy read, and laugh-out-loud funny in places. The characters are sharply drawn, from Kate's rock-singer-ex-boyfriend and his lame songs to Mitch's recently outed lesbian sister. But the gimmick of e-mails, etc. gets old and serves to distance the reader from the actual events. We always hear about what happened after the fact, and all the !!!! and CAPITAL LETTERS become tedious. I also did not find the romance itself particularly riveting. But the book is fun, fast and easy, often very clever. You can actually read it during commercials and not forget your place. Chick lit fans will appreciate it.	2004-03-01
763773:US	49115690	R3258FTV0JEUTT	0553802526	941388331	The Killing Hour	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gripping thriller	FBI New Agent Kimberly Quincy is living her dream. In an attempt to put the murder of her mother and sister behind her, she's training to be an FBI agent. But when she discovers a body in the FBI training facility, she's reminded of her sister's death. All of a sudden, she doesn't care about the FBI or anything else. She wants to find the killer. It doesn't hurt that the lead investigator in the case is hunky Georgia cop Mac McCormack.<br />The serial killer has a pattern--he kidnaps two young women, murders one and uses her body as a map to the second. The second he leaves alive--but in an exposed location where she'll die if the police don't react in time. In three previous events, the police had been on time only once. But now, the killer has raised the stakes. Since the police 'won' the game last time, he'll make it even more challenging for them.<br />Author Lisa Gardner writes an intense and emotionally involving story. Serial killers are weirdly fascinating and the ticking clock of the second victim adds to the novel's emotional punch. Setting up Kimberly as a survivor brings the killings close for her and for the reader. Gardner cuts between scenes involving Kimberly and Mac, scenes with the still surviving victim, scenes from the killers point of view, and scenes where Kimberly's FBI agent-father and his lover also try to solve the mystery. Of these, only the father/lover fell short of being emotionally gripping and exciting.<br />Although THE KILLING HOUR is a thriller, it does contain a strong dose of romance--between Mac and Kimberly and between Kimberly's father and his lover. From a story perspective, contrasting life-affirming love and murder makes sense. Gardner walked the line carefully between overwhelming the plot with romance and, except for one scene with dad, did the job.<br />Gardner's strong writing kept me fully involved in the story, hoping for victim Tina, and intrigued by the killer's motivation and background. I couldn't put this one down and recommend it to anyone who likes woman-driven thrillers.down and recommend it to anyone who likes woman-driven thrillers.	2004-03-01
765927:US	49115690	R19GRNGNRCLQDU	0312284977	594805457	The Cat Who Wasn't a Dog	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun and enjoyable	When their friend's ancient dog dies, actors Trixie and Evangeline are summoned to help grieve--and help assist the dog on its way to the taxidermist who will immortalize its remains. Despite an appointment, however, no one appears to be at the taxidermist--at least no one alive. When Trixie finds a living cat, a dead man, and a fast-spreading fire, the three women flee--accidentally leaving behind the mortal remains of Fleur-de-Lys.<br />Getting away from a fire is one thing--getting away from murder is something else. The police soon identify the aging actresses and their driver as witnesses--or suspects. Trixie and Evangeline have to return to the scene of the crime, witness the dreadful rehersals for a reprisal of Arsenic and Old Lace, and deal with a number of unlikable and unsavory characters including their hostess's step-mother, the director, the lead man, and a friend of Evangeline who is intent on making big bucks in investment. Trixie finds herself more and more attached to the rescued cat, Cho-Cho-San, but there are plenty of other claimants for Cho-Cho's love. Still, somebody had left the living cat at the taxidermist--with instructions to have it stuffed.<br />Author Marian Babson does a great job developing her characters--with the blend of competition and mutual support that typifies the thespian professions. Her writing is light and enjoyable with plenty of places that left me with a big smile on my face. Mystery fans will notice that the actual solving of the mystery goes on outside of the book--the primary protagonists aren't really involved in solving the murder(s) or arson. I would have thought that this would detract from my reading pleasure but, to my surprise, it didn't. THE CAT WHO WASN'T A DOG is a fun and enjoyable novel.	2004-02-29
767451:US	49115690	R3TSLUD293DM8I	0312314140	448096680	The Wrong Stuff (Jane Wheel Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Cute and charming	When her friend's wife is accused of murder, part-time antique picker, part time private detective, and part time bad-mom Jane Wheeler and her gay friend Tim set off for a fine furniture comune. Jane quickly finds another victim and an even bigger mystery. Nobody in the comune seems completely happy, but there certainly don't seem to be any reason why someone would kill. Still, two people are dead now and Jane knows that her friend's wife is innocent.<br />Jane's investigation turns up plenty of problems, and puts her in danger of being killed herself, but it is cryptic clues from her distant mother and strange vibes from the local residents that finally give her the intuitive leap to solving the mystery.<br />Author Sharon Fiffer does an excellent job portraying Jane Wheeler's troubles with stuff--she is so intent on buying stuff that her house and garage overflow and she gets so distracted she forgets to sign her son's permission slip for a field trip--and integrating it into the story. The plot line about antique furniture and faked antiques is intriguing and Sharon's research adds to the story without drawing the reader out of it.<br />Fiffer's writing is fresh and funny. Jane is a charming character whose problems create reader identification (who hasn't been overwhelmed by too much of the Wrong Stuff), and her concerns over reaching middle age, being a good mother, and balancing her careers all ring true. THE WRONG STUFF is the right stuff as far as light-hearted mysteries go. Recommended.	2004-02-27
768895:US	49115690	RSQUWVQP3VS0D	0892967943	363374910	The Con Man's Daughter	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Very interesting but emotionally uninvolving	When his daughter is kidnapped, ex-cop Eddie Dunne resolves to bring her back, not matter what it takes. He hears a rumor that a Russian mobster is involved and firebombs his Rolls Royce--and is completely unfazed when the FBI tells him that human remains were found in the car. For Eddie, his daughter matters and nobody else amounts to anything. Eddie thrashes around, beating up people, shooting them in the feet, and getting beat up himself, but doesn't seem to be getting anywhere. Until he comes across evidence of a Lesbian affair involving the Russian mobster's wife. That's when things really get nasty.<br />Author Ed Dee writes with a noire style. New York is gritty, dangerous, and filled with criminals--and the cops are worse. Although a kidnapped daughter is a potentially emotional event, Dee's writing holds the reader back from emotionally identifying with the character. None of the characters in the story are truly innocent and none engage the reader in anything other than horror.<br />Dee is a retired New York police lieutenant and clearly knows his law enforcement. The police procedural details make the story feel real. THE CON MAN'S DAUGHTER is an interesting story. Dee's writing makes you want to find out what is going to happen next--it just doen't make you care much about whether it happens to Eddie, his daughter, or anyone else.	2004-02-26
769236:US	49115690	R2C2QNKR7ESAC1	0743471490	17202992	This Rough Magic (Heirs of Alexandria)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nice mix of alt history, romance and magic	Defeated in his attempt to capture Venice (see our review of THE SHADOW OF THE LION) the demon Jagiellon hasn't given up on his plans to destroy the empire and his temporary ally, Emerick, King of Hungary is the perfect tool. Using Jagiellon's money and Byzantine ships, Emerick attacks the Venitian island of Corfu. Emerick hopes to weaken Venice, but Jagiellon has a darker motive. Corfu swarms with an ancient magic--a magic that, harnested by Jagiellon, could tip the balance of power between good and evil.<br />Unfortunately for Jagiellon and Emerick, Benito Valdosta, Prince Manfred, and Manfred's fearsome bodyguard Erik, along with a large group of martial monks, are on their way to Corfu. But Emerick doesn't give up easily and he has plenty of assistance, both magical, treacherous, and from his own cannons, to make sure that his conquest succeeds. Best of all, between his Byzantine allies and Jagiellon's sea-monster shaman, Venice remains in complete ignorance of the fate of its critical colony.<br />Authors Mercedes Lackey, Eric Flint and Dave Freer combine to deliver an emotionally satisfying and militarilly adventurous tale. The combination of alternate history and fantasy is strengthened by strong emotional ties and romantic entanglements amongst the characters. If the first novel in the series belonged to Kat and Marco, this one belongs to Benito and Maria--separated by Maria's stubornness and Benito's youthful mistakes.<br />THIS ROUGH MAGIC should be read as part of the series. Much of the story only makes sense in the context of THE SHADOW OF THE LION. Both of these are substantial books and require a significant investment in terms of reader time. In my opinion, they are well worth it and, if anything, THIS ROUGH MAGIC is even better than SHADOW.	2004-02-26
773566:US	49115690	R2BGCY54CWUF8K	0743471474	560643167	The Shadow Of The Lion (Heirs of Alexandria)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Massive and fascinating alternate history	The Grand Duke of Lithuania, under the control of a demon, is thwarted in his expansion attempts by the Holy Roman Empire. But the Empire has many demands on its resources and the Duke realizes that the focal point is Venice. If the Empire can be persuaded to divert its efforts into the quagmire of Italy, evil has a good chance to run over the weakened borders. Renaisance Venice is a city of feuds, rich merchants, magic, and mystery. The Emperor sends his nephew and possible heir into the Italian stew, accompanied by a Norse/Vinlander bodyguard and a group of Teutonic-style knights. Two young brothers, Marco and Benito struggle for their place in the city, abandoned by their family but still hunted by vendetta enemies. And Maria and Kat work Venice's famous canals in their gondolas. But the forces of evil are strong and Venice's ancient protector sleeps deeply.<br />Authors Mercedes, Eric Flint, and Dave Freer combine to create an intriguing alternate history. In this world, magic exists, Hypatia of Egypt converted to Christianity and became a Saint, the Greeks still control Constantinople, Germany is united in a useful empire that doesn't quite squander all of its resources in Italy, and Lithuania and Hungary rather than the Ottoman Empire threaten the west. The Christian Church is split between Petrian and Pauline branches with the more rigid Pauline being especially strong in Germany closer to the battle against the demons themselves.<br />THE SHADOW OF THE LION is a massive work--and only the first in a multivolume series. Its focus is almost wholly on Venice--the richest city in the world and a major link between east and west. Somehow, Marco and Benito must not only keep themselves alive, but also grow to the point where they can save the city. Because when the day comes, all of the Empire's forces, even his nephew Manfred, will be able to do little unless Venice can shake off its lethargy.<br />Alternate history buffs will enjoy the way SHADOW twists history--making it interesting to people who enjoy history but without beating the reader over the head with it.<br />Be warned, though. SHADOW is a major commitment. It takes time and energy to get through. This isn't the kind of book you can sit down with and get lost in. You'll work at it--but it'll be worth it.ry--making it interesting to people who enjoy history but without beating the reader over the head with it. <br />Be warned, though. SHADOW is a major commitment. It takes time and energy to get through. This isn't the kind of book you can sit down with and get lost in. You'll work at it--but it'll be worth it.	2004-02-23
776768:US	49115690	RYOKNEZ5RNC7N	0142400777	406847088	Wolf Moon	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Nice early work by de Lint	Kern, a werewolf shapechanger, barely escapes from a harper-hunter and finds himself in a home. Since he turned werewolf, Kern has been on the run, hated and feared by everyone--both human and wolf. Now, he keeps his secret close, pretends to be purely human, and gradually falls in love with Ainsy, the innkeeper. He even makes friends with the inn's dog--by becoming were by night, establishing dominance, and then going for a purely canine hunt.<br />Just when Kern is starting to think that he can have a normal life, he gets word that the harper, Tuiloch, plans on spending the winter in the neighborhood. And Tuiloch can see through any disguise. Tuiloch doesn't just want to kill Kern, he wants to destroy him, starting by eliminating the trust and love that Kern had created with his new family. And Tuiloch, with his harper magic, can do just that. It isn't long before Kern is on the run again, but this time he has friends to worry about--friends that Tuiloch hypnotically controls, and that Tuiloch doesn't at all mind using in Kern's destruction.<br />Author Charles de Lint has carved out a niche for himself as a leading writer of contemporary fantasy. WOLF MOON is an early book (set in a medieval-style fantasy world), lacks some of the sensual nature of his more mature writing, and is a fairly linear story. Although it is simpler than de Lint's later works, he does a fine job establishing Kern's problems and making the loss of his new family all the more poignant for the fact that he knew it would have to happen. WOLF MOON is a compelling quick read.	2004-02-21
779066:US	49115690	RC2KTCU0O0AO1	0758202261	942588940	Toasting Tina (Jane Stuart and Winky Mystery)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Light and frothy mystery	When literary agent Jane Stuart's client has his million dollar book deal cancelled, Jane pulls out the stops. She demands and finally gets a meeting with publisher Tina Vale. But Tina's motives have nothing to do with the book--and everything to do with Jane. Jane stole Tina's great love and now Tina is getting even. Of course, getting even is something Tina is especially good at and she has enemies throughout the book industry. Since they are at a meeting of Romance Authors Together (RAT), plenty of Tina's enemies are lined up.<br />When Tina turns up dead, an electric toaster in her bathtub with her, suicide is the first suggestion. But a missing key and a long list of enemies makes murder a more likely prospect. And Jane realizes that she'd better find the killer herself--before word gets around that she is one of the suspects. Jane's investigation takes her through a herd of obnoxious writers, ... publishers, and slimey agents before she starts to get a hint at the truth.<br />Author (and literary agent) Evan Marshall adopts a breezy and fun style, pokes fun at the romance industry (the RAT meeting seems like the worst of Romantic Times and Romance Writers of America, together), and generally has a good time with this light mystery. Serious mystery buffs may be disappointed at how easy the killer is to identify, but will enjoy Marshall's fast pacing and Jane's inventive detection techniques. TOASTING TINA makes for an amusing and very quick read.	2004-02-19
782872:US	49115690	R14HUKCDS0FWGL	0756402069	352643847	Exile's Valor (Valdemar)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Not Lackey's Best	Although Valdemar defeated the Tedrel invaders, the nation is still troubled, providing plenty of work for weapons master and spymaster Alberich. Selenay, the young queen, misses her father and dreams of romance--to the point where she is unwilling to listen to reason. Not that anyone bothers trying to reason with her. She is the Queen, after all, and the country needs an heir.<br />EXILE'S VALOR follows shortly after the events described in EXILE'S HONOR. VALOR is a smaller story--one of court intrigue, spies, and attempts to gain political advantage through love. For me, the plot seemed to barely get off the ground for the first two hundred pages. Excruciating detail of Selenay's unhappiness might seem necessary to justify her rash decision to fall in love with the first handsome man to pay attention to her, but it is still excruciating for the reader. Similarly, details of Alberich's shopping trip for new disguises are the type of information that could only appeal to the most avid Valdemar fan.<br />In EXILE'S HONOR, author Mercedes Lackey dug deep into character goals and motivation. In VALOR, she focusses more on the surface. For me, the result was not up to Lackey's usual teriffic example. Fans will want to read this one and stay current, but it isn't Lackey's best.	2004-02-16
784809:US	49115690	R24CWBZ1VGSKLA	0399151540	645136087	Divided in Death	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very entertaining futuristic adventure	The unfaithful husband and his lover are murdereed and the angry ex-wife is nearby. Somehow, though, Lieutenant Eve Dallas finds the whole thing a little to easy. Especially when her husband, Roarke, tells her that the woman is completely trustworthy and involved in one of his most important projects. Dallas decides to investigate further and finds subtle fingerprints of the Homeland Security Organization everywhere. Computer genius and billionaire Roarke finds out something else--Homeland Security stood by while Dallas was being raped by her father because they didn't want to compromise an investigation. Roarke may not be able to protect Dallas now, but he needs to go after those who messed with an innocent young girl.<br />Although Roarke and Dallas work together on the case, Dallas doing the legwork while Roarke leads the investigation into a strangely destructive computer virus that has the earmarks of one rumored to be created by a terrorist organization, the knowledge of Homeland Security's failure to protect Dallas lays heavy on their relationship. Dallas is a cop--she can't take revenge for a long-ago mistake. And she can't let Roarke take justice into his own hands. But Roarke knows that there is no justice when government agencies can use top-secret classifications to cloak their mistakes in national interest jargon.<br />Author Nora Roberts (writing as J. D. Robb) writes a fast-moving and exciting story. The damaged Dallas makes an intriguing character with her strong interest in the law and a sometimes battling interest in true justice. Dallas's decision to solve the mystery regardless of overblown claims about national security is strong stuff in an era where governments regularly ignore constitutional rights. Secondary characters like Peabody, Dallas's assistant and newly promoted detective are also charming and add a comic touch.<br />It's hard to go wrong with any book by Nora Roberts and DIVIDED IN DEATH is an enjoyable treat. I found the romantic conflict between Roarke and Dallas an occasional distraction from the mystery and Roarke is just a little too perfect to be sympathetic, but Robb/Roberts' writing is so strong you hardly notice.c conflict between Roarke and Dallas an occasional distraction from the mystery and Roarke is just a little too perfect to be sympathetic, but Robb/Roberts' writing is so strong you hardly notice.	2004-02-15
789942:US	49115690	R10BOSDONCX2VP	0142002399	261421472	The Shape of Water	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very good introduction to excellent series	The body of a well known politician is found with his pants down, literally. But instead of a coverup, his lawyer suggests calling in the police. Police Inspector Montalbano is suspicious, but the autopsy says the death was natural--a heart attack. Still, Montalbano insists on keeping the case open, investigating what really happened. Because in Sicily, where the Mafia remains strong, the truth can be as malleable as water.<br />Montalbano's investigations probe political corruption, sexual deviance, and Sicily's underworld, but the evidence seems clear. The only question is, who was the beautiful girl who abandoned the minister when he died.<br />THE SHAPE OF WATER is the first in a really fine mystery series by author Andrea Camilleri. In WATER, Montalbano is already a fully developed and intriguing character with a strong moral sense and an attractive disregard for the letter of the law. Hints of his passion for the taste and smells of Sicily come out although these are more fully developed in later books in the series.<br />Camilleri's mystery is fully engaging and Montalbano is a great character. Although I didn't find THE SHAPE OF WATER quite as compelling as some of the later novels in the series, it is a highly enjoyable read.	2004-02-11
792841:US	49115690	R3D6DO499UQEK1	0671654357	309887277	The Incorporated Knight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not classic but still enjoyable	There aren't any wars going on and local monsters have been pretty well subdued. So when his magician-instructor offers Eudoric Dambertson a deal--knighthood and his daughter for two yards of dragon skin, Eudoric agrees. He sets off on a quest that doesn't quite turn out the way he intends--ending up in prison for hunting season violations--but learns some valuable lessons along the way. One of the most basic lessons concerns women. Eudoric has problems with women. He'd like to get married, have a loving relationship, but the woman he gets interested in either run off with someone else, or come with dangerous entanglements.<br />Spurned by his first love, Eudoric decides to make his fortune building a stagecoach line, offering shock-absorbed comfortable journeying to horse-weary travellers. In a magical world where enterprise is often scorned and where getting a business franchise is difficult, Eudoric doesn't find it an easy task--in fact, he's sent off after more monsters. Eudoric may not be the bravest or most noble guy around, but he's smart and manages to twist things in his own favor.<br />Authors L. Sprague and Catherine Crook de Camp take a twist on traditional heroic fantasy. Rather than a muscled and empty-headed hero with women falling around him, Eudoric has problems with women, uses his head rather than his thews, and goes for pragmatism rather than heroics any day. It makes for an amusing story and Eudoric is an interesting character who insists on learning from what happens to him and making the best of the opportunities that come his way. Sprague de Camp has created several of the masterpieces of SF/Fantasy and INCORPORATED isn't in that category. But it is an enjoyable read.	2004-02-09
793487:US	49115690	R3RVOCIJ86LN9Z	0399149848	93143308	Birthright (Roberts, Nora)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Archeology adventure	When a 5,000-year-old skull is unearthed at a housing development on Antietem Creek, archeologist Callie Dunbrook is called in to organize an extensive dig. But not everyone supports the dig, which has halted construction and taken away local jobs. Soon Callie is up to her ears in trouble--threats, then murder.<br />If that weren't enough trouble, Callie's anthropologist ex-husband, Jake Graystone, is also hired to work the site. And she's being stalked by a woman who claims Callie is her long-lost daughter, kidnapped at three months and sold in a black-market baby scam.<br />You can always count on author Nora Roberts for a solid, emotional read, and Birthright is that. The murder mystery was intriguing, though there was, in my opinion, absolutely no clues that lead to the real murderer. The details about archeology and anthropology give the story a sense of credibility. However, the lead characters are impossibly gorgeous, smart, and perfect. Callie and Jake are in their late twenties--ridiculously young to be considered experts in any scientific field. Their sense of history--their memories of prior digs and what-not--would have fit better on characters ten years older.<br />Still, a pleasant read.	2004-02-08
793747:US	49115690	R1VP6O54GGCYI0	0380819732	750148109	Where Is He Now?	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Well written with perceptive details	A fifteen-year class reunion is coming up, and it's time for the prom queen, the most-likely-to-succeed jock, the brainy nerd and the outrageous girl rock singer to come to terms with their pasts and their dreams.<br />Jeanne Claire and Nate, the golden, popular couple who everyone assumed would marry, broke up shortly after graduation. But they've always loved each other, and now they have to explore the reasons for their break-up, realize the mistakes they made and correct them. They have to reclaim their own lives, their own dreams, before they can be what the other needs.<br />Arnold, the former brainy nerd, is now a millionaire, but still carrying a torch for funky Tamara, who ignored him in school. Now, however, Tamara, who recorded a couple of hit songs but then sank into a life of drugs, has all new priorities--and an all new appreciation for Arnold. But can Arnold overcome his insecurities to accept that Tamara might really love him?<br />Now, I am a big fan of Jennifer Greene's category romances at Silhouette. She's a legend. But this big book didn't thrill me. The class reunion theme has been so overdone. And it felt more like two category romances cobbled together than the deeper, more complex story I was hoping for. Still, it was smoothly written, the love scenes were satisfyingly steamy, and there were some nice moments and humorous scenes that brought a smile to my face. Ms. Greene's observations about dreams and disappointments were perceptive, I thought.	2004-02-08
794587:US	49115690	RW50L879XNI10	0380978911	305016435	The Burning Land	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Best fantasy I've read in a very long time	Gyalo Amdo Samchen, along with a pair of dreamers and a group of soldiers is sent into the burning land to rescue refugees sent into the desert by the now-deposed and atheistic Caryaxists. The burning land is more than a desert, though. It is the place where the god Arata laid down after his great battle against evil--the place where the prophet received his prophecy. Gyalo's mission seems to be a straighforward rescue, but as he travels, he begins to learn of high-level political ploys. Although the Caryaxists were overthrown, all is not well in the world and, increasingly, Gyalo finds himself at the center of a storm.<br />To his shock, there is a large group of refugees living in an oasis in the burning land--including dreamer Axane. Some of them believe that he may be the next messenger (prophet) sent to lead them out to the promised land, but others fear he is a demon sent to destroy them. What he finds shakes his faith and forces him to confront his destiny. Because everything he has ever believed is suddenly turned on its head.<br />Author Victoria Strauss delivers a stunningly powerful fantasy. THE BURNING LAND combines fascinating world-building with epic yet fully nuanced characters, and an exciting plot line. Gyalo's travels through the burning land are mirrored in the growth of his powers and insights, and the increase in his own doubts. Axane has always been a doubter, but her faith in humanity shows a hopeful path for the future--if anyone will dare take it. The somewhat ambiguous ending left me anxious for more--for a resolution to the question of what happened to Arata, and what happened to the new messenger.<br />THE BURNING LAND is the best fantasy I've read in a long time. I highly recommend this one.	2004-02-07
794610:US	49115690	R3OW6VHKMVYEHN	0060561629	36519057	Anything You Say Can and Will Be Used Against You: Stories	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Stunningly good insight into being a female cop	In a stunning collection of short stories and novellas, author and former female cop Laurie Lynn Drummond describes life as experienced by female police officers. She writes of women who must come to terms with death, their first killing, the emotional overload of the violent, hard-drinking life of a cop, and of women who struggle for balance between following the rules and doing what's right.<br />Drummond's writing is very strong, filled with imagery that packs an emotional wallop while strengthening rather than weakening the narrative story line. In many of the stories, not much is really happening. A woman cleans her weapon and thinks about her life--and ending it. Another woman remembers killing a man. In other stories, Drummond uses more conventional narrative structure. In every case, however, the real story is that of being a cop, a woman in a man's world, and a human forced to wrestle with silly little rules at the same time she is putting her life at risk.<br />Every word in ANYTHING YOU SAY CAN AND WILL BE USED AGAINST YOU feels real, packed with emotional impact, and heartfelt. This is one of those books you'll want to spend time with, savoring the stories and the feelings behind them. Well done, Laurie Lynn Drummond.	2004-02-07
795409:US	49115690	R1WU5AT2YEQ6SN	0142002631	293390331	The Terra-Cotta Dog: An Inspector Montalbano Mystery	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A really excellent book.	A Mafia leader wants out, but he has a job you don't just quit. Working with Sicilian Police Inspector Salvo Montalbano, Gaetano The Greek arranges a complex capture fantasy. The capture works, giving Montalbano more publicity than he wants and the threat of a feared promotion, but Gaetano also tells him of a cave where the Mafia hide a huge weapons cache. Montalbano investigates and finds both the weapons and an older and more complicated mystery. Two mummified bodies lie in a hidden cavern, accompanied by a water pitcher, a terra-cotta dog, and a rug. The meaning of the intwined lovers fascinates Montalbano and he virtually drops the Mafia investigation to discover what could have happened to the dead couple.<br />Montalbano is a fascinating and well developed character. He lives by his own moral code, pursues an ambiguous relationship with Livia, and seems to appreciate good food more than he does either women or the law. His investigation combines literary allusion, hard-core detecting, a history lesson, and intriguing mentions of the food Montalbano finds himself enjoying.<br />In THE TERRA-COTTA DOG, author Andrea Camilleri has a wonderful and moving story. Much of the story kept me laughing, but Camilleri maintains a darker subtext. The Mafia and Italian corruption and violence, both in the Fascist days and in the present, are an ever-present reality and form much of the story's background.<br />I found the story to be completely compelling and recommend it without reservation.	2004-02-07
795410:US	49115690	R2GV5J585K22KH	0373227566	784040554	Bounty Hunter Ransom	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Heart-throbbing hunk and exciting action. Cool stuff.	College professor Aubrey Schuyler doesn't have adventures. But when her cousin Patti asks for Aubrey's help and then disappears--along with Patti's baby, Aubrey arrives just in time to be assaulted. Unfortunately, the police know Patti's past and suspect that Patti simply ran. The only one who seems concerned is the last man Aubrey wants to see--handsome bounty-hunter Beau Maddox. Beau, whom Aubrey has cherished a secret crush on since their childhood. Beau, the man who shot her brother. In an uneasy alliance, the two start a search for Patti and the missing baby.<br />Aubrey, and Patti's wealthy family, vow to find the baby and save her--somehow. Aubrey's search takes them from gentile southern mansions to the depraved depths of Texas's most tasteless and dangerous S&M bar. When Patti's father offers a multimillion dollar reward for the baby's return, Beau suddenly seems much more interested. Could he be interested only in the money? Or could the hunky bounty hunter be part of the conspiracy rather than a concerned rescuer?<br />Author Kara Lennox became a Harlequin American favorite with her blend of humor and sexiness. In her Harlequin Intrigue debut, Lennox adds danger and adventure to create a page-turning thriller. Aubrey makes a fine heroine and Beau is a heart-throbbing hunk. Lennox's polished and professional writing kept me intrigued and in doubt about who was behind all of the danger that came into Aubrey's life.	2004-02-07
795693:US	49115690	R3FOWGVORBI1WH	0446690171	164404419	Hope's Highway	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Enjoyable but simplistic	Margie Kinnard has always dreamed of going to Hollywood and, when her father announces he's moving to California, she agrees to go with him, even though they have never been close. The trip doesn't make them any closer but, for safety, Margie and her father travel with several other vehicles, including the car driven by handsome Brady Hoyt. Brady is going to California to deliver his niece to his sister-in-law (his brother killed the girl's mother and then himself) and he will then return to his Colorado horse ranch. Margie feels instant attraction to the cowboy, but her father tells Brady that Margie is a slut and a thief and Margie assumes that Brady believes. Brady wants Margie, but doesn't want to deny her dreams of Hollywood. Compared to that, a rural horse-ranch doesn't seem like much.<br />The depression-era journey across Route 66 is endangered when a pair of thiefs decide that the caravan would make an attractive target. When Brady foils their robbery attempt, one of the thiefs vows revenge--tracking the party across Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico. The catty and unfaithful wife of one of the other men in the caravan adds to the problems as does Margie's father's increasing silence and anger.<br />Author Dorothy Garlock has obviously researched the great depression-era highway and her research shows. The slow and painful drive, frequent mechanical problems, and dangerous fellow-travellers stand in sharp contrast to today's air-conditioned high-speed freeway system and Garlock's description rings true.<br />After reading a few pages, I turned to the cover to find if this book was targeted at young readers. This seems not to be the case. The sexual and frequently violent content are definitely aimed for adults. But the writing is often simplistic, the characters single-dimensioned, and the plot straightforward. Garlock fans and fans of the Route 66 experience will want to add this one to their to-be-read collection	2004-02-06
797127:US	49115690	R25RLNTNNT7JXR	0312271859	960756803	Red, White, and Blue Murder (Sheriff Dan Rhodes Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A rural Texas treat	When young reporter Jennifer Loam approaches Sheriff Dan Rhodes with a scoop, he knows he'll have to investigate. Someone has been dishing dirt on a county commissioner--and on the sheriff himself. Rhodes knows that he didn't have county prisoners paint his house--and he's got the receipts to prove it, but does this mean that Loam's informant was wrong? Or is something else going on. Before he can track down the source, Rhodes is called to a fire--one with a body in the middle of it. And before you can ask whether it's hot enough, Rhodes has a murder on his hands.<br />Author Bill Crider does a great job depicting rural Texas--a place where a rib-eating contest is prime news, where petty corruption is par for the course, where a romance author is the top celebrity, and where a sheriff is part deity and part goat for the community. That sense of community, without excessive nostalgia, comes through clearly and represents a part of Texas that still exists.. Rhodes is a great and well developed character. I couldn't help but find myself wincing as he repeatedly got himself on the wrong side of fists, crockery, weapons, and even a fireworks display.<br />Crider writes with a deft and light touch. I got a good chuckle over both the situations he depicts and the dialogue his characters use to describe their feelings and intentions. The interplay between Rhodes and the department employees could have gotten old in less skilled hands, but Rhodes pulled it off.<br />Fans of a slightly slower paced mystery that puts the focus on character rather than action will want to savor this slow-cooked short novel.	2004-02-05
800845:US	49115690	R3TOF95RYODTCF	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	5	9	26	N	N	Solid offering: adventure, worldbuilding, character growth	There's a war going on but, according to seer Gitara, something much more important has happened. The long-awaited, long-feared The Dragon is reborn and the world has entered its end-times. The Aes Sedai mobilize to find the newborn baby--the first man in centuries destined to be able to use magic without destroying himself because prophesies state that he is essential if good is to have a hope (not a certainty) of survival. But even Aes Sedai secrecy cannot keep suspicion from getting out to the evil as well--and they will do anything necessary to keep the Dragon from surviving until that battle.<br />Moiraine Damodred and her friend Siuan are only Accepted--trainees in Aes Sedai magic, but they have the fortune (or misfortune) to hear the seer's last prophesy. They resolve to seek out the Dragon themselves once raised to Aes Sedai status--which the crisis soon requires. But their quest is not easy--thousands of babies were born during the critical period and the Aes Sedai records are incomplete. To succeed, they'll have to break all the rules and put themselves in danger. And when they do, they discover a more terrible secret. Even the near-holy Aes Sedai are corrupt, riddled by a secret order who are sabotaging everything the Aes Sedai stand for. Two brand new inductees don't stand much of a chance against the accumulated power of evil, but doing nothing isn't an option.<br />Author Robert Jordan has become one of the top names in modern fantasy by delivering a solid tale that combines adventure, fascinating world-building, and character development. NEW SPRING delivers on all of these elements and makes a highly entertaining read. Unlike many of Jordan's books, SPRING is relatively short and self-contained. It is billed as a prequel to his huge-selling WHEEL OF TIME series and can be read by readers new to Jordan or unwilling to undertake the multi-thousand page investment in the full opus. If you read fantasy, you'll want to add NEW SPRING to your list.	2004-02-03
802567:US	49115690	R30LF5M8LLXHWE	075969222X	334045570	The CIRCLE of SODOM: A Gripping New Thriller	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Exciting and timely	It seemed like one of those random murders--a friend of Owen MacDara killed while he visited a strip club. But Owen's suspicions are raised when another friend vanishes. The connection, they, along with Owen, were on duty during a strange late-night operation in a military hospital in Korea. It doesn't seem possible that someone would be killing the witnesses now, but no other explanation seems possible either. As Owen begins to investigate, he finds clues of a huge right-wing conspiracy to overthrow the government and put their own man in office.<br />With the help of a General and the President's authorization, Owen pursues the clues--and puts himself in danger. The conservatives have moles everywhere and it doesn't take them long to discover that Owen is after them, or to do their best to turn the tables. Worse, if the President goes public with the plot, he'll be accused of being paranoid--insane. The right would get their coup without even having to fight.<br />Author Pat Mullan writes an exciting and fast-moving tale. From almost the first page, Owen finds himself in danger and confronting men who believe that God has called on them to bring about the end times. The use of computer warfare and cyberterrorism to undermine the economy, discussions of antiterrorism tactics, and the modern militia movement all are well researched and seamlessly incorporated into the adventure.<br />For my tastes, Mullan relies a bit much on coincidence and stupidity on the part of the enemy (the botched kidnapping of Kate, in particular, seems incredibly poorly handled). But Mullan's strong story-telling overcomes the few narrative flaws and occasionally awkward language to provide a completely enjoyable reading experience. With today's increasing split between the right and left in America, THE CIRCLE OF SODOM is a timely read.	2004-02-01
809025:US	49115690	R2Q16CVX7NBLR8	0380978199	510163913	The Last Place: A Novel (Tess Monaghan Novel)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Character, action and puzzle together	It started out as a routine investigation for Baltimore private investigator Tess Monaghan. A nonprofit group hired her to look into several small-town unsolved murders as part of a study to determine whether the police had done a good job, and whether domestic violence was at the root. But soon she discovered something unexpected--a link between two of the cases, which were supposedly chosen at random.<br />Tess meets up with an unlikely ally--a former Toll Facilities cop, Carl Dewitt, who is obsessed with one of the murders. When they compare notes, they realize they're dealing with an extraordinarily clever serial killer--and that Tess is his real target, but for an unknown reason.<br />As Tess and Carl investigate, sometimes cooperating with the state police, sometimes defying it, they start to realize that they're following a script only the killer knows, and he's always one step ahead of them. As she struggles with the fear and the mind games, Tess is also battling her own demons, forced on her by a court-ordered anger-management psychiatrist.<br />Author Laura Lippman's novel has that rare combination of character, action, intellectual puzzle and flashes of humor that blend for a first-rate mystery. This is not a feel-good book, though. It made me a little sad.	2004-01-27
810763:US	49115690	R3Q3DS2OF3KT1S	0756401453	415549253	Wild Magic: Book Two Of Fool's Gold (Fools Gold, 2)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Fatally slow first half	Wild magic walks the world again after centuries of rest. The Rose of the World cannot remember everything but her powers are returning. The cat/beast is still held in captivity, but it is increasingly able to serve its own interests. And the old man has begun to awaken. But before the three are completely empowered, mortal men have much to do. Saro must suffer his family's abuse while the death-stone he carries makes him share their worst memories, Aran Aranson must make his doomed voyage into the ice flows in search of mythical gold. His daughter, Katla Arensen adventures in search of a ship designer, then finds herself forced to do woman's work. Virelai, once apprentice to the great wizzard needs to discover his true calling and escapte the bondage of those who use him. And the great female mercenary, Mam seeks work for her troop.<br />Author Jude Fisher writes a frustrating combination of fabulous world-building with one-dimensional characters. Katla is a brat-tomboy. Her brother is a crazy coward. Her father is obsessed. Saro is a whiny baby. His brother is a cowardly bully. Growth comes slowly to these characters, especially as few of them are pursuing any particular goal (this makes for fine realism but disappointing reading). Of the major characters, only Aran Aranson seems to have a goal. On the other hand, Fisher's world is fascinating with its different cultures, religions, and the strange trinity that created it and still plays an active force within it.<br />The first half of the novel is slow sledding. Characters wander around without much purpose, fighting and dying without achieving anything. Once Aran completes his ship, however, Fisher seems to get her second wind and the pace of the story and my interest as a reader picked up as well. Relatively little of the first half is really necessary for the story (the kidnapping of the ship builder could have been handled in the preface) but readers must still labor through it.<br />WILD MAGIC is a definite step up from the first novel in this series, SORCERY RISING and gives me hope that Fisher will pull things together in the third volume.ite step up from the first novel in this series, SORCERY RISING and gives me hope that Fisher will pull things together in the third volume.	2004-01-26
815706:US	49115690	R3H0HYDSRG5JGN	0060530383	805102411	The Kill Clause: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Exciting and thoughtful	When his seven year-old daughter is killed, U.S. Deputy Marshal Tim Rackley's life comes apart. The local police arrange a fake suicide for the quickly caught child-molester but Tim decides to let justice run its course. The man is clearly guilty and Tim believes that the law and justice coincide. But in this case, a terrible botch in procedures sets the man free and Tim has to decide what to make of his life--as his marriage unravels. Out of the blue, a group approaches him--they are all victims of similar breakdowns in the justice system. They've set up a Commission that intends to redress justice failure and are looking for a point man--an executioner. Tim is their choice but can he turn his back on a lifetime of beliefs? The bait is almost impossible to turn down--they promise the full evidence on his daughter's case.<br />THE KILL CLAUSE addresses a common perception in America--that our justice system gives too much protection for criminals and too little to the victims and to society. For many, the idea of retribution is attractive and the Commission makes all of these arguments to Tim. That their arguments are flawed isn't really the point and author Gregg Hurwitz knows it.<br />Hurwitz solid and fast-paced action--both in the U.S. Marshal scene where Tim shoots several badguys and in the Commission scenes where Tim must confront some of the deadliest killers on the planet while on the run from the police himself. The depiction of Tim's marriage breaking down was moving and troubling as two people in love stand by helpless to do anything to prevent it.<br />Although the novel was mostly effective and compelling, at times Hurwitz's beliefs were presented in almost lecture form. The bar scene with the frustrated defense attorneys came off that way for me. The story would have been more powerful if Hurwitz had chosen to bring out his points solely through the story. And for me, the ending was just a bit too pat--so much so that it defeated much of the point of the book. Still, Hurwitz's writing is strong and THE KILL CLAUSE makes for an exciting and thoughtful read.of the book. Still, Hurwitz's writing is strong and THE KILL CLAUSE makes for an exciting and thoughtful read.	2004-01-22
821251:US	49115690	R1RZ84B9I34097	0373835825	651888210	Private Scandals (Feature Anthology)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Combines scary, heartwarming, and sexy	Jessica Lewis wakes up in her hotel room with a monster headache and a dead man in her room. She quickly becomes the chief suspect and the only person who seems to believe her at all is sexy Conner Hayden--the dead senator's brother. Conner says he's afraid the police will settle on her and leave the real killer undiscovered, but Jessica soon learns that Conner has other designs--designs on her. But Jessica has secrets of her own--secrets that make her certain that she's not the right woman for Conner. Of course, staying alive is the first challenge and someone seems intent on finishing what they started in Jessica's hotel. In SHADOWS OF THE PAST, author Joanna Wayne gives the familiar dead-body-no-memory hook new meaning with this tight story.<br />Private Detective Wilson Greenfield doesn't like rich women. When attractive 40-something Vivian Shaw walks into his office, he wants to turn her down flat. But Detectives need to pay the bills and he takes her case--finding the birth family of Vivian's adoptive daughter, Vanessa. It would have been all right if Vivian and Vanessa had let him do his job and read his reports, but they insist on his presenting his findings in person. And, when he tracks down one of Vanessa's long-lost sisters, Vivian decides to go along on the trip to meet her.<br />Vivian spent more than twenty years following a man's rules. Now that her husband is dead, she intends to stretch her wings. At first, Will Greenfield seems controlling and dominating--but she soon learns that there is a warm heart beneath the sexy but gruff exterior--and she decides she wants more. In FAMILY UNVEILED, author Judy Christenberry tells a heart-warming story of families lost and found, and of two people who struggle to put their pasts behind them to create a new future together.<br />Rachel Dubois has no business seeing Gabriel Wellington--he has a pending zone change request before the city council where she serves. But the second he asks her for a dance, Rachel knows that nothing will be the same. She responds to his touch as she never has before--and his touch is practiced and perfect. Desire makes common sense take the back seat and sweeps her into a relationship with a man she hardly knows--and really shouldn't know better. Gabriel has recreated his family wealth and now he's at a key juncture in his life. But Rachel makes all of his dreams seem petty. He wants more. But can the two of them ever have anything beyond a passionate affair? Because the political conflict of interest is far from the biggest secret that Gabriel is holding back. In SLEEPING WITH SECRETS, author Tori Carrington heats up the pages with a sexy story of desire, love, and forbidden passion.el knows that nothing will be the same. She responds to his touch as she never has before--and his touch is practiced and perfect. Desire makes common sense take the back seat and sweeps her into a relationship with a man she hardly knows--and really shouldn't know better. Gabriel has recreated his family wealth and now he's at a key juncture in his life. But Rachel makes all of his dreams seem petty. He wants more. But can the two of them ever have anything beyond a passionate affair? Because the political conflict of interest is far from the biggest secret that Gabriel is holding back. In SLEEPING WITH SECRETS, author Tori Carrington heats up the pages with a sexy story of desire, love, and forbidden passion.	2004-01-18
824083:US	49115690	R3326I81P534U5	038097875X	724936298	A Blind Eye: A Novel (Ford, G. M.)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting action--very well written	All he has to do is stay away from the Texas Rangers for a few more days--until the Grand Jury term expires and he can go home. But a freak snowstorm strands writer Frank Corso, along with sometime-girlfriend and photographer Meg Dougherty in an airport and Frank decides to brave the blizzard rather than wait to be arrested. Stuck in the blizzard, Frank and Meg discover evidence of a seventeen-year-old murder. As part of a bargain to keep him away from the Rangers, Frank agrees to look into the old murder and Meg reluctantly goes along.<br />What they find is a story of abuse, incest, and a girl's attempts to control her environment at any cost. As they get closer, they wonder whether this girl, now a woman, might kill again--and whether they can stay alive themselves. Of course, getting closer depends on staying ahead of the Rangers, the FBI, and the local Sheriff who has her own issues.<br />Author G. M. Ford writes a page-turning and compelling story. Frank, with his little problem with the truth, makes an intriguing character--bad enough to be sympathetic but heroic enough to make him admirable as well. Ford's writing grabs the reader by the throat and pulls them through an exciting adventure.<br />Readers who enjoy action, a bit of psychological analysis, wise-talking heros, and a quirky bit of romance will definitely want to get their hands on A BLIND EYE.	2004-01-16
824961:US	49115690	R1XX47LUJY3YSP	0312309139	758693747	Die Laughing (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very nice cozy	Daisy Fletcher dreads seeing her dentist and has put off the appointment as long as her aching tooth allows. But when she arrives at the office, the dentist seems to be missing--missing until the ever-curious Daisy insists on looking in his office and discovering his body. Apparently the good dentist had a habit of abusing nitrous oxide and has poisoned himself. But Daisy sees evidence that it isn't just an accident--that it just might be murder. Could it have been the unfaithful wife? The wife's lover? Or possibly the dentist's lover or her husband? Daisy isn't sure, but she isn't going to rest until she's found out more--and shared the information with her husband, a Scotland Yard detective chief inspector.<br />Set in 1920s England, DIE LAUGHING investigates the habits of a society where people discuss 'people one knows,' complain about the problems finding servants but keep several on staff, and still defer irrationally to the smallest hint of aristocracy. Although this was a different world, the motives for murder remained the same. And someone who has murdered once just may do so again.<br />Author Carola Dunn writes with a light touch that kept me smiling. Daisy can't stop her curiosity even though she knows that it drives her husband crazy (fortunately for both of them, it is her curiosity that brings out most of the evidence). The relationship between these characters stands in contrast to that of the victims and suspects, most of whom seemed to be involved in illicit relationships with one another.<br />I found the beginning of DIE LAUGHING a bit slow and bogged down with social references but Dunn soon picked up the pace and delivered a charming story. Readers will enjoy spotting the killer and then watching Daisy and her husband work their way to the truth.	2004-01-15
825016:US	49115690	R2KGJYQD3ZRXNY	0373750048	621118802	A Randall Returns (Brides for Brothers)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	More heartwarming Randalls	Hunky Sheriff Mike Davis doesn't want any trouble, especially with the Randalls. When it looks like a house belonging to the wealthy and powerful Randall clan is being robbed, he quickly arrests and cuffs the intruder--only to find out that she is the prodigal Randall daughter, now a doctor, returning home. He knows Caroline Randall is out of his league, but that doesn't mean he can't feel the attraction. Especially not when Caroline's father, erstwhile matchmaker Jake Randall, decides that he needs to find a husband for Caroline and puts Mike right in his sights.<br />Caroline Randall is on the rebound from a failed relationship, home from Chicago to remote Rawhide, Wyoming. Her former lover got another woman pregnant and left Caroline. Now Caroline is convinced that no man will want her--since injuries she suffered in an accident leave her unable to bear children. She swears she won't let her heart get broken again, even if she is attracted to the sexy sheriff.<br />Under the matchmaking eyes of Caroline's parents, Caroline and Mike explore the passion that surges between them. The desire is real, but can it be strong enough to overcome the damage that each has suffered?<br />Author Judy Christenberry brings back the match-making Randall family in another heart-warming tale of love in Rawhide. Fans of the series will be happy to see many familiar characters, but this story belongs to Mike and Caroline. Christenberry's approachable style makes A RANDALL RETURNS a quick and enjoyable read even as she explores powerfully emotional issues.	2004-01-15
826207:US	49115690	R35ZLISUB7VDAM	0373691602	847427073	Tall, Dark And Texan	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sexy and funny.	Almost out of gas on her way from New York to Hollywood, hopeful actress Wendy Jamison gets carjacked, losing everything. The huge and dangerous man who pulls up on a motorcycle looks like the end, but he turns out to be a hunky bounty hunter--Michael Wolfe. With no money, no clothes but what she's wearing, and with a blizzard raging, Wendy needs rescuing, but only for a little while. She's on her way to Los Angeles, to the movies and television. Some day, she's going to have her picture on People Magazine and she's never going to settle again.<br />Wolfe has made his own way in life and he's now the top bounty hunter in Dallas. He lives alone, except for a bad-tempered cat, and he likes it that way. He doesn't need a woman in his life, especially not one who makes trouble, can't take orders, and who lies about being a gourmet cook. Still, Wolfe is all male and something about Wendy turns his hormonal thermostat to full blast. But Wolfe knows that girls like Wendy don't fall for guys like him. He's too big, too scary, and too damaged to mean anything to her. Besides, she's only going to stay in Texas long enough to get her feet back under her, earn enough for the breast augmentation sadly necessary to succeed in Hollywood, and then she'll be out of his life forever.<br />Wendy finds herself falling in love with Wolfe, with the way he cares for others and the fierce protectiveness he offers her, but she can't give up on her dreams. They have kept her alive, motivated, going, when everyone else in her large family settled for working in the chewing gum factory. She simply can't give up on her dreams, even for love.<br />Author Jane Sullivan, who also writes as Jane Graves, delivers a super-sexy story with some charming humor and just a touch of adventure. Wolfe is a wonderfully damaged hero and Wendy makes a spunky heroine, filled with energy and a willingness to try anything to reach her dreams. Sullivan's strong writing propells the story along, making TALL, DARK AND TEXAN a book that you'll want to start early in the day if you plan to get any sleep that night at all.AND TEXAN a book that you'll want to start early in the day if you plan to get any sleep that night at all.	2004-01-15
828469:US	49115690	RM2WB0GD1IZSO	0821774395	354499255	Shadow Of The Sun (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Emotionally rich adventure story.  Good stuff	When her archeologist-father, deathly ill from a Pharoh's curse, calls on Sarah Whitehurst to carry the remains of Queen Tiy back to Egypt, Sarah sees a chance to reclaim her father's love from Jake Mitchell, the young man who replaced her in her father's eyes and became the son he truly wanted. Admittedly a woman travelling alone in 1798 is risky, especially with Napoleon gathering an invasion fleet poised to strike somewhere, maybe even to Egypt itself, but Sarah is intent to accomplish what her father sets as her goal. Her increasing fascination with the story of Queen Tiy only makes her more resolute.<br />Years before, a viccount had stolen Jake Mitchell's archeological finds, claiming them as his own and accusing Jake of stealing. The discovery of Queen Tiy (in partnership with Sarah's father) is a chance to redeem his reputation, reclaim his role as a leading British archeologist, and gain the funding he Jake needs to pursue his love of Egypt and of archeology. Admittedly his partner has been suffering from a bit of superstitious nonsense, but no superstition, no thief, nothing, is going to get in Jake's way this time. When Jake discovers that Queen Tiy's remains are missing, presumably stolen by his partner, Lord Whithurst to be returned to Egypt, he sets off in pursuit.<br />Thrown together on the same ship, Sarah hides her identity and the nature of her cargo from the man she knows will do anything in his power to deny her this one chance to reclaim her father's love. Despite herself, however, she feels a growing appreciation, respect, and desire for this powerful man. Although Jake knows Sarah is hiding secrets, he can't imagine she is hiding the one secret most important to him. When he discovers the truth, Sarah knows that any chance at love will be destroyed. But first, they need to explore Egypt--and to avoid the armies of Napoleon himself.<br />Author Tammy Hilz writes an emotionally rich adventure story. Both the streets of London and the deserts of Egypt come alive in this exciting story. Sarah and Jake are both damaged characters intent on proving themselves, and Hilz makes their emotional and physical attraction vividly real at the same time as she draws the conflict in strong relief. SHADOW OF THE SUN is the first of an exciting series of historical novels by Tammy Hilz. I'll be looking forward to reading the remaining novels as well.of Egypt come alive in this exciting story. Sarah and Jake are both damaged characters intent on proving themselves, and Hilz makes their emotional and physical attraction vividly real at the same time as she draws the conflict in strong relief. SHADOW OF THE SUN is the first of an exciting series of historical novels by Tammy Hilz. I'll be looking forward to reading the remaining novels as well.	2004-01-13
828573:US	49115690	R3JXFLUYER22F0	0061058084	377254777	Climb the Wind: A Novel of Another America	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Interesting history, weak character	With the American Civil War over, the Union turns its attentions toward the west, toward the territory of the Lakota and the gold of the badlands. In our history, the result was the genocidal attacks on the Sioux and the horrors of Wounded Knee. But what if the Native Americans of the plains had united--if the Crow had fought with the Sioux and Cheyenne rather than scouting for Custer? And what if the Sioux had been able to secure more modern weapons--Chinese rockets and better rifles? In CLIMB THE WIND, author Pamela Sargent addresses these questions.<br />The real hero of the novel is Russian Grigor Rubalev. He knows of American betrayal having suffered it when the U.S. bought Alaska and promptly ignored their promises to the Russian inhabitants. And he's read of the Mongol victories over the far more numerous and better armed Chinese. Could the Lakota chief Touch-The-Clouds be a later-day Gengis Khan? Touch-The-Clouds' mystic visions of Indian warriors in the streets of Eastern cities seems to indicate this possibility, and Rubalev is willing to do anything to make this victory possible.<br />From the reader perspective, it is unfortunate that Sargent choses Seneca Lemuel Rowland as her protagonist. Rowland, an ex-soldier, is disenchanted with his life and wants to help the Sioux against the never-ending string of treaty violations that they have suffered. But he sees no alternative. If the Sioux fight, they will lose. If they fail to fight, they will lose. Rowland doesn't believe Rubalev's vision. Even when the plains Indians slaughter Custer and his entire force, Rowland knows that the result can only be more suffering.<br />Sargent's selection of the genocide of the Native Americans as her setting for an alternate history is a good choice--the result in our own world was so horrible that almost anyone would want an alternative. The history is also familiar to most Americans, increasing its marketability (try selling an alternate history of Bactria after Alexander's death and see how important this is). Best of all, Sargent's story-telling and descriptions of Lakota customs is compelling. Although I found the first half of CLIMB THE WIND to be slow going and Rowland far too passive for a good protagonist, the novel still makes interesting reading.xander's death and see how important this is). Best of all, Sargent's story-telling and descriptions of Lakota customs is compelling. Although I found the first half of CLIMB THE WIND to be slow going and Rowland far too passive for a good protagonist, the novel still makes interesting reading.	2004-01-13
831639:US	49115690	R3HNT3QLBTGOVR	0743251466	681520534	Something's Down There: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting but flawed story	Aging cold warrior Mako Hooker has retired to the islands where he fishes and doesn't do much else. But rumors of a boat killer are starting to mount and the Company,' anxious to pick up political favors, sends a team into the area to find out whether the long extinct mega-shark has emerged. Because Mako has seen the six-inch broad bite marks that the killer has left. Along with the Company team, a cruise ship filled with millionaires and a Hollywood filming team are in the area.<br />Mako's friend and boat captain pushes Maco into a relationship with be beautiful millionaire Judy (a.k.a. 'Doll'). That is the good news. The bad news is that the woman on the Company team is gunning for a chance to kill Maco and one of the Hollywood men is a Mafiosa. The Mafiosa may be playing legitimate now, but Mako knows that it's only a matter of time before he decides to go for illegal profits. A number of suspicious deaths in his past make Mako even more suspicious.<br />Author Mickey Spillane has been writing hard-boiled action for more than half a century and he can still turn out captivating action. Still, SOMETHING'S DOWN THERE didn't seem quite put together. I wasn't clear why the Mafiosa had to be there and what illegal objective he was seeking that even a legitimate Hollywood manager (if there is such a thing) wouldn't be doing. The boat-killer is an intriguing concept but was perhaps too easy to guess and its final resolution seemed unsatisfactory to me. And the relationship between Mako and Judy seemed just a little too sexist for me to buy into. Finally, Spillane's characters occasionally date themselves, talking about World War II as if it was a recent event and as if veterans of that war were still active in espionage.<br />SOMETHING'S DOWN THERE is flawed, but it is still interesting and occasionally compelling. Spillane maintains a way with words even in a story that is not his best.	2004-01-11
835644:US	49115690	R24QNPT2WNK04Z	0743435478	826470643	Paying the Piper (Hammer's Slammers Series)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Thoughtful view of a mercenary company	The planet was rich--at least before they brought in the mercenaries--and the disagreement over a puny few percentage points in loading fees at the local spaceport. But that was enough to let the locals invite in mercenary soldiers including Hammer's Slammers. And once the Slammers are in a conflict, they follow through. How they follow through may not be pretty--and may not be what the governments who invited them in intended, but they follow the money and their contracts, not some abstract ideal of good. After all, it wasn't them who started the war--they simply intend to end it.<br />PAYING THE PIPER follows the path of Lieutenant Arne Huber from initial landing on Plattner's World to the war's wrapup. Getting there requires Huber to fight across the planet, facing a variety of local militias (hardly worth fighting), and experienced mercenary companies. Sometimes, though, it seems like the enemy is within the nations that hired him. And sometimes, it even seems that the white mice of Hammer's police and intelligence group is the real enemy. But it's up to Huber to find a balance that leaves him loyal to contract, his men, and his unit (although not necessarily in that order).<br />Author David Drake doesn't delve especially deep into Huber's character, but he does give Huber enough detail to make him sympathetic and interesting to the reader. And Drake's analysis of the military is largely small unit and tactical rather than strategic. But Drake keeps the action rolling, sending Huber from one deadly firefight to the next with virtually no respite.<br />Although Huber and Hammer's Slammers are the heros and 'goodguys' of the story, Drake doesn't attempt to romanticize war or the military. Most of Huber's men and women are killers, pure and simple. In many cases, they kill when they really don't have to and when the killing serves no useful military purpose. Worse, Hammer command doesn't especially care whether it is supporting properly elected officials or helping those elected through voter fraud. They're there to get the job done. For me, this darker approach to the military future is interesting and timely. By the time the battle is over, everyone is a loser. And Drake doesn't even attempt to persuade the reader that all of this killing has been for a noble purpose.<br />If you're looking for an exciting military action SF adventure, with just a touch of cynical realism, it's hard to go wrong with PAYING THE PIPER.ping those elected through voter fraud. They're there to get the job done. For me, this darker approach to the military future is interesting and timely. By the time the battle is over, everyone is a loser. And Drake doesn't even attempt to persuade the reader that all of this killing has been for a noble purpose. <br />If you're looking for an exciting military action SF adventure, with just a touch of cynical realism, it's hard to go wrong with PAYING THE PIPER.	2004-01-08
843231:US	49115690	R1PULM2CNYM6XU	0373802021	943253354	The Fairy Godmother (Tales of the Five Hundred Kingdoms, Book 1)	Books	5	69	72	N	N	Charming and emotionally gripping	The powerful force of tradition intended Elena to be a Cinderella, except that her prince was only eleven when Elena turned twenty-one. When her evil stepmother decides to try other lands for fortune, Elena is abandoned and forced to come up with a future of her own. She decides to become a servant--and at least get paid for working for others. Instead, a Fairy Godmother takes her on as an apprentice. The magical potential that has built up in her through the frustrated tradition gives her huge magical powers. Which she'll need, because tradition forces the inhabitants of her kingdoms into preset ways--some of which are positive and nice, but others of which are quite dark and evil. Elena, even aided by brownies and unicorns, has a lot to do.<br />When Prince Alexander behaves rudely to what he thinks is an old woman but is really Elena in test mode, she turns him into a donkey and brings him home to reform him. Which is fine as long as Alexander stays a donkey, but when he turns back into a man, attraction sizzles, which is a problem. Tradition doesn't hold with Fairy Godmothers having lovers, at least not lovers who don't betray them. And Elena is determined not to follow that tradition.<br />Author Mercedes Lackey melds together a number of fairy tale traditions to create a compelling story of fairie, magic, and romance. Elena is a strong character, who, as her brownies point out, would be wasted in the largely decorative role of princess. Alexander starts out something of a jerk, but manages to redeem himself through hard work and serious thought. A strong action sequence closes out the story answering readers who wonder whether Elena and Alexander will be able to create a new tradition where they can explore the strong attraction between them.<br />Mercedes Lackey's strong writing engages the reader emotionally and makes THE FAIRY GODMOTHER a compelling read. This is the launch novel in a new fantasy imprint--LUNA. LUNA will concentrate on female-driven fantasy. THE FAIRY GODMOTHER augers well for the new line.asy. THE FAIRY GODMOTHER augers well for the new line.	2004-01-03
843610:US	49115690	RTD4VPTKKL2D1	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Star Wars meets Lord of the Rings	Raised as a humble farmer, Eragon discovers a strange jewel--which turns out to be a dragon egg. Dragon riders once protected the land and ensured justice, but now, except for the evil King, the dragon riders are destroyed. The King's spies learn of the dragon's birth and destroy Eragon's uncle in an effort to find him and the dragon. If they can turn Eragon to the dark side, the King will be unstoppable. Fortunately, Eragon escapes and, with the help of an old bard, Eragon learns magic, swordfighting, and dragon tactics. Still, the King's power is too strong to confront alone.<br />After a narrow escape, Eragon finds a beautiful elf-woman held captive by the King's shade. Together with a stranger who saves him, Eragon, the dragon, and the unconscious elf make their way to a rebel fortress deep in the dwarvish mountains. Yet the King has created evil alliances and his Urgal (Orc) subjects invade the Dwarf kingdom where all of Eragon's magic and power avail him little against the powerful shade.<br />In the movie business, high-concept projects are frequently described as a combination of two well-known films. Eragon is definitely Starwars meets the Lord of the Rings. Set in a Middle-Earth world of elves, dwarves, orcs, and dragons, we have the familiar adventures of Luke Skywalker--the loss of his uncle, his aging warrior-bard teacher, the somewhat disreputable buddy, and the beautiful princess. Pretty good stuff.<br />I'm torn in this review. On the one hand, it's an incredible feat for a fifteen-year-old author like Christopher Paolini to complete an entire novel, let alone an epic five-hundred pager. For the most part, Paolini's writing is competent, only occasionally drawing the reader out of the story. And the story is an exciting adventure as Eragon is thrown from adventure to adventure. On the other hand, Eragon doesn't really grow as a character. Sure he learns magic and swordfighting, but he's still the same whiny kid at the end of the story that he was at the beginning.<br />Paolini is an author to watch. He's got talent and a fine sense of story. With a bit more experience in the world and some serious effort on character development, he may become a major author. ERAGON only hints at this promise, but it's a pleasant hint.at the beginning. <br />Paolini is an author to watch. He's got talent and a fine sense of story. With a bit more experience in the world and some serious effort on character development, he may become a major author. ERAGON only hints at this promise, but it's a pleasant hint.	2004-01-03
847538:US	49115690	R1WFCE2CKNOE02	0688174582	266560980	A Faint Cold Fear	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Recommended--for those with strong stomachs	Suicide is running rampant at the Grant Institute of Technology.  But after three suspicious suicides in a row as well as a near-fatal stabbing, Grant County medical examiner Sara Linton has a score to settle.<br />If there's a multiple murderer stalking the college, she and her ex-husband, Police Chief Jeffrey Tolliver, will bring him or her to justice--even as the Linton Family struggles through its own crisis.<br />Add to this emotional mix the troubles of former detective Lena Adams, now a college security guard, who is sinking deeper into the myre of her own embattled psyche and acting out against Jeffrey, her former boss, whom she blames for her misfortunes.<br />In this third installment of the Grant County series, Slaughter has created a tense page-turner that at times portrays such raw emotions that it's uncomfortable to read.  But the crimes are so<br />fascinating, so intricate, and the research so accurate that read it I did, with a vengeance.  These characters are starting to feel like my own family. And when my nose wasn't in the book, I was talking about the characters as if they were real people.<br />As with the previous title, KISSCUT, this book is recommended for those with strong stomachs.  Fans of Patricia Cornwell should enjoy it.	2003-12-31
849193:US	49115690	R11PXMUE8MTA8Y	0892967536	731467180	Heat Shock	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Story-telling adventure	Half black, half Vietnamese emergency room doctor Carmen Nguyen thinks she's only offering a minor favor when she agrees to look out for a dying patient's gamecocks. But when someone takes shots at her when she visits the chickens, she knows there's something else going on. Something having to do with the chicken's incredible winning habits. Contrary to traditional science, these chicken appear to have been evolved into a superchicken race. And evil millionaire businessman Jack Kimbrough has decided to get his hands on the chickens any way he can and use them to breed a race of super-warriors.<br />With the help of white-water expert and ex-Marine Walter Rios, Nguyen decides to investigate. But the criminals have their own plans and it doesn't take them long to find out about Rios and Nguyen. Once they do, Kimbrough sends his pet assassin to make sure they don't cause any more trouble.<br />Nguyen and Rios try to stay ahead of the assassin and, using all of the contacts Rios had while in military intelligence, discover the truth behind Kimbrough's plot.<br />Author Robert Greer offers an exciting adventure story. Nguyen and Rios are both damaged characters trying to hold their lives together in the face of current danger and serious self-doubt caused by their histories. Greer's writing is sometimes clunky and his point-of-view shifts are disorienting. I found his use of coincidence to be overly heavy as well. But Greer's strong story-telling compensates for the technical problems. HEAT SHOCK will suck you in and keep you reading.	2003-12-30
853692:US	49115690	R3QIJ1V64GE2NH	0312864833	143918115	The Crystal City (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 6)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Not the best in series but still very very good	When his wife sends him to New Barcelona (New Orleans), Alvin Maker goes even though he is uncertain of his goal. What he discovers is Yellow Fever and oppression. Even Alvin's 'maker' powers are unable to completely defeat the disease, but he resolves to do something about the oppression faced by slaves, freed blacks, and the French inhabitants of the city. Like Moses, Alvin must find a way to lead the oppressed into a promised land. Unlike the Israelites, however, Alvin's task is doubly challenging because he doesn't want to violate laws and force other people out of their country.<br />Along with his friends, Abraham Lincoln and Arthur Stuart--who is quickly becoming a maker himself, Alvin struggles to find a path. Unfortunately, Alvin's brother Calvin, Steve Austin, and Jim Bowie have other plans and do everything they can to hamper Alvin. And Alvin's pregnant wife looks into the future and sees only destruction and death for everything that she and Alvin have fought for. But although the power of the unmaker is overwhelming, Alvin refuses to give up his dream of a Crystal City of Makers, working together to build something wonderful and something that will last beyond his own death.<br />Author Orson Scott Card creates a wonderful and enduring character in Alvin Maker. Card has become one of the best SF/Fantasy authors writing today and THE CRYSTAL CITY reflects Card at the height of his power. Although THE CRYSTAL CITY is an engrossing read, for me it lacks some of the pure emotional power of the earlier novels in this series. In THE RED PROPHET and ALVIN JOURNEYMAN, for example, I often found myself in tears at the pure power of the story. CRYSTAL CITY falls somewhat short of this. That doesn't, however, make the novel less than engrossing and enjoyable.<br />If you're new to this series, you'll find your enjoyment enhanced by starting at the beginning, SEVENTH SON. If you've been following the series, you'll definitely want to read this one.	2003-12-26
854894:US	49115690	R1I0V6BD9Z5UZ5	0312317441	330770860	Dead Soul (Charlie Moon Mysteries)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent and moving Native American thriller	Former Indian Police officer and now Ute investigator Charlie Moon is assigned the task of investigating a drunk Indian's death. The FBI and local police have already done their best and nobody expects Charlie to find much, but he believes in giving the tribe their money's worth. Besides, something about the murder just doesn't add up. With the help of his ghost-seeing aunt Daisy, Charile is able to find some clues that no one else looked for. But death has a way of exacting its price and Charlie ends up facing both physical danger and ghost-touch.<br />Author James D. Doss combines adventure, emotional depth, clever dialogue, and a deep insight into both Native American and Christian spirituality to deliver an outstanding story. Doss's strong writing gripped me from early in the story and made me care about the seven-foot ex-lawman, his friend the local Chief of Police, and the other characters in this rich novel.<br />Charlie Moon makes a wonderful character. His cutting dialogue made me laugh, but his deeper insights are what makes him stand out as a character. Doss combines a cynicism about humanity with a deep optimism--a difficult combination that definitely works. I recommend this fine novel highly.	2003-12-24
855315:US	49115690	RD2R3ZT23RCFK	0399150773	349789238	Dragon's Lair (Penman, Sharon Kay)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Exciting medieval action	Richard the Lion Hearted is being held by the Holy Roman Emperor and all England is straining to raise his ransom--except Prince John, of course, who fears for his life if his brother returns. When one caravan of ransom money is ambushed, Queen Eleanor sends her young agent Justin de Quincy to find the missing treasure. What de Quincy finds is plots within plots as Welsh prinices seek to take advantage of the situation.<br />De Quincy travels between Wales and England looking for clues to the missing treasure. Aided by a friendly knight, a childhood friend, and several beautiful women, De Quincy picks up hints of a plot, but finding proof is more difficult. Discovering the treasure is most difficult of all--if it hasn't been destroyed in the first place.<br />Author Sharon Kay Penman delivers a romp of a story. Queen Eleanor and Prince John are carefully rendered as the complex and tortured people they were. This isn't a classic mystery with subtle clues, cartloads of red herrings, and deep-thinking detectives. But if you're looking for a bit of action, some really nice historical detail, and a swashbuckling young hero, DRAGON'S LAIR is a definite winner.	2003-12-23
855580:US	49115690	R2ZNQT0WRKX326	0399150536	110785101	Fireplay	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Outstanding mix of police procedural/woman in jeopardy	It started out as a routine fire in a restaurant basement. But then two firefighters were killed, and New York Fire Marshall Georgia Skeehan must sort through the evidence to determine who is responsible for the arson--and two murders. She is elated when an answering machine tape at the restaurant yields a clear-cut confession from a notorious torch, Michael McLaughlin. But suddenly there are Feds involved, and the fire department is ordered to keep their hands off McLaughlin. He's a confidential informant, and the magnitude of the FBI's case takes precedent over an arson case.<br />Georgia, who is a bit hot-headed, is livid over the Feds' high-handedness and finds herself part of the FBI's investigative team. It's the only way they'll keep her quiet. Soon she's working undercover with gangsters and terrorists, she almost gets blown up, and she realizes she has become a pawn in McLaughlin's little game. She also discovers she and McLaughlin have a history she didn't even know about, and the mysteries, lies and dead bodies pile up until Georgia doesn't know who to turn to, who to trust.<br />Fireplay is a really outstanding mystery that incorporates elements of a police procedural and a taut, woman-in-jeopardy story. The emotions were honest, and realistic details about fires and arson made me believe, for a couple of hours, that it was really happening. I can't give much higher praise than that. The only thing I didn't care for was the very last twist, which was so far-fetched it killed the believability factor. But it was almost an afterthought, thrown in as details of the mystery were being wrapped up, so it didn't really spoil the story for me.	2003-12-23
857478:US	49115690	RE7V4QH0EWXF5	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Strong compelling writing but bloodless characters/plot	Police Commander Adam Dalgliesh visits a small museum whose major point of interest is a 'murder room' showing evidence from notorious murders that took place between the world wars. The Dupayne Museum, though, is in crisis. Unless the three trustees agree to renew the lease, the museum must be closed. And one of the three seems intent on refusing to go on. When Dalgliesh returns to the museum, it isn't because of the exibits. Instead, life seems to be imitating history and a new murder has duplicated one of those long-gone ones.<br />Author P. D. James delves into her characters, giving us the details on the psychology and family history that led them to hold their current views and their current fears. Her descriptions of Tally Clutton, in particular, are fascinating and a joy to read.<br />James's style makes MURDER ROOM a compelling read, but the story itself seems somewhat bloodless. James attempts to give Dalgliesh an emotional impact through a romantic involvement that is regularly complicated by the demands of his police work. But for me, Dalgliesh's 'love' seems uncompelling. Of the other police, Detective-Inspector Kate Miskin gets the most attention but she seems emotionally uninvolved with the case or with her life.<br />If you're a fan of P. D. James's writing, you'll find MURDER ROOM to be a satisfying treat. Although I found the plot and characters to be somewhat light, the writing carries the reader forward and gives us an understanding of an England that P. D. James knows and, I think, loves.	2003-12-22
860327:US	49115690	RMU7WE8JCBF6H	0765302195	300389076	The Outstretched Shadow	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Exciting adventure with nicely developed characters	Kellen Tavadon, son of the high mage of Armethalieh, is bored. Learning the intricacies of mage-work is boring. Taunting his father is boring. Following all of the rules of the city--rules seemingly set up to freeze the entire civilization into immobility--is boring. When he discovers three books--books on a different kind of magic, Wild Magic, Kellen is instantly attracted. Because Wild Magic is about change. And Kellen has a desparate need to see some change. What he quickly learns, though, is that Wild Magic has its price and is one of the many things outlawed in Armethalieh. Chosing Wild Magic sends Kellen into a new life--assuming he can live long enough to claim it.<br />Although Armethalieh considers itself the center of the Universe, there are other forces that are older and potentially more powerful. Elves once allied with humans against the demons of the Underworld. Now Armethalieh considers the elves to be among the enemy, an inferior race to be crushed where possible and ignored elsewhere. It's an attitude that the demons do everything they can to encourage because they have been licking their wounds since their defeat at the hands of their allied enemies. And now that the allies have divided, the demons intend to strike again. Kellen finds himself a focal point in the new emerging war.<br />Authors Mercedes Lackey and James Mallory spin an exciting and compelling adventure. The demons of OUTSTRETCHED are completely evil, but the other characters are fully dimensioned. Kellen can be annoying with his boredom, self-doubts, and doubts about everyone else but he grows to become a fascinating hero. The Mages of Armethalieh are making a terrible mistake with their rejection of non-human species and the Wild Magic, but even their mistake is understandable potentially noble. They really do try to do their best for their people. And the Elves obsess about beauty but don't always make for good company, or understand the priorites of their human allies.<br />THE OUTSTRETCHED SHADOW blends high adventure with truly human characters--real people with goals, needs, and fears that allow the reader to sympathize and invest in their struggles, successes and failure. OUTSTRETCHED is an exciting start to a new series. I can hardly wait for the next.E OUTSTRETCHED SHADOW blends high adventure with truly human characters--real people with goals, needs, and fears that allow the reader to sympathize and invest in their struggles, successes and failure. OUTSTRETCHED is an exciting start to a new series. I can hardly wait for the next.	2003-12-19
861825:US	49115690	R2LF2ND22QT3AL	0399151060	728441185	Remember When	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sexy story of love overcoming human damage	When her father and three partners is responsible for a multimillion dollar jewel heist, Laine Tavish is torn. She's put her con-man father in her past but she still loves him. She can't just turn him over to private investigator Max Gannon. On the other hand, her father's life is in danger because one of the partners has decided to keep all of the diamonds for himself. Keeping herself, and her father alive become the challenges. It doesn't hurt, though, that Laine has fallen in love with the hunky Max. And Max will do anything he can to help her. Anything except give up on the diamonds.<br />In the second portion of the story, Laine and Max's granddaughter has written a best-selling book about the diamond heist and her grandparents' role in its solution. When she returns from a publicity trip, she finds her house has been ransacked and her housesitter murdered. Police Lieutenant Eve Dallas and significant other billionaire Roarke discover that the murder is connected to the now-ancient diamond confidence scam. Someone thinks that the granddaughter knows the secret to the share of the diamonds that went missing and will stop at nothing to get them for himself.<br />Author Nora Roberts (the book is billed as a collaboration between Nora Roberts and J.D. Robb, a Nora Roberts pseudonom) combines sizzling sensual attraction with exciting adventure and a pair of women who refuse to back down and let the men in their lives handle the rescuing. Roberts' writing is strong and compelling, dragging the reader into the action. The story of the missing diamonds and the way that they are hidden is clever and believable, but the real strength of the story is in the strong female leads and their romances with the men in their lives.<br />I'm not sure I buy into letting the final quarter of the diamonds alone at the end of the first half the novel--for me, the justification seemed weak and I don't see how Max would have gone for it. But without it, we wouldn't have the second half the novel so I can't complain too much. I found Roberts/Robb's descriptions of mid-twenty-first century police work interesting and largely convincing. Advanced computer technology, hyper-extensive databases, and sophisticated pattern matching algorithms are reasonable extensions to current research and continued traffic problems are a no-brainer. Roberts assumes that diamonds will still be precious and rare in 2059. I'm betting on dirt-cheap diamonds thanks to synthetic production, but my forecasts are far from perfect.<br />The attraction of REMEMBER WHEN isn't the futuristic insights or clever cons, though. It's in the romantic entanglements between complex men and women, and the sensuous bonds that bring them together and allow them to overcome the wounds that damaged them and threatened to cut them off from humanity. In Nora Roberts' world, love really does work miracles and she makes us buy into the myth.<br />Very nice indeed.lf the novel so I can't complain too much. I found Roberts/Robb's descriptions of mid-twenty-first century police work interesting and largely convincing. Advanced computer technology, hyper-extensive databases, and sophisticated pattern matching algorithms are reasonable extensions to current research and continued traffic problems are a no-brainer. Roberts assumes that diamonds will still be precious and rare in 2059. I'm betting on dirt-cheap diamonds thanks to synthetic production, but my forecasts are far from perfect. <br />The attraction of REMEMBER WHEN isn't the futuristic insights or clever cons, though. It's in the romantic entanglements between complex men and women, and the sensuous bonds that bring them together and allow them to overcome the wounds that damaged them and threatened to cut them off from humanity. In Nora Roberts' world, love really does work miracles and she makes us buy into the myth. <br />Very nice indeed.	2003-12-17
864458:US	49115690	R1BLOZS8DVCEQM	1551667444	785357621	The Kill Fee	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Poor little Sally--a million or only three hundred thousand?	When her uncle gets an offer to buy five acres he doesn't even know he owns, he tasks Sally Harrington with the job of finding out what is going on. What she finds is a mob plan to build a huge polluting cement factory in the middle of her upper class idealic community. Sally wants to break the story, but she has problems of her own. Should she take the million-dollar a year job as a talk-show hostess, or stick with the news division, have more job security, but only own three hundred thousand? And then there's the tough choice between the hunky twenty-five year old cop/law student who loves her and the hunky fourty-something married man who she can't stop flirting with.<br />Sally's life gets more complicated when a reporter doing an interview with her gets clobbered in the middle of the interview and left for dead. Although the cover copy indicates that she's the suspect, she isn't (don't blame author Laura Van Wormer for this one--authors have no control over cover copy), but she does have problems because the Mafia really wants the five acres her uncle owns and will do just about anything to get it.<br />In an exciting action scene, Sally confronts a couple of mobsters with a huge Cadillac SUV and gets her T.V. anchor-person looks messed up. Unfortunately, that's about the only action THE KILL FEE has to offer and the story sort of fizzles out without any adequate resolution.<br />Author Laura Van Wormer is a talented writer whose effortless prose keeps the reader involved. In this story, however, I found Sally Harrington unsympathetic, wishy-washy, and given too much good fortune to be a really sympathetic heroine.	2003-12-15
866359:US	49115690	R2WHBIV29E8XHI	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting alternate history	In 1864, the south is in desperate straits as the north finally selects active generals and begins to push its final offensive. But strange merchants arrive with a deal for the Confederacy. They offer a new gun, the AK-47, for a price of only $50 Confederate, and can make hundreds of thousands available. Automatic weaponry can hardly help making a huge difference and Grant's Wilderness campaign, far from a costly stalemate, becomes a huge Confederate victory with Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia smashing straight through to Washington D.C. The merchants have an ulterior motive, however. They are an extremist racist group of Afrikaners (the AWB) from our own near-future who intend to use the south as a launch pad for their own war against rights for the African American and for blacks everywhere.<br /><br />Once the Confederacy's existance is confirmed, the south becomes convulsed between Robert E. Lee who fears the Afrikaners, and General Forest, who buys into their racist doctrine. With South-African gold, modern weapons, and modern political methods, the AWB intends to ensure that the nation they preserved takes their path--no matter what they need to do.<br /><br />Author Harry Turtledove narrates this fascinating alternate history through the eyes of Robert E. Lee and Sergeant Nate Caudell of the 47th North Carolina. Caudell seems caught up in most of the action--from Wilderness to Washington D.C. to the battle against AWB in their heartland, giving a close-up look at how a rapid-fire weapon could have transformed war (as indeed it has). Turtledove's Lee is a gentleman, but also a thinker who sees that the southern stand on race is wrong and destructive to the nation he has adopted, but who still carries the casual racism of his time.<br /><br />THE GUNS OF THE SOUTH makes for fascinating reading. Many of Turtledove's later works adapt devices he develops here, in a setting of interest to most U.S. readers. The explicit racism of many of the characters will make some readers uncomfortable, but it is certainly an accurate reflection of the times. Some readers may also question whether AWB would do so much for the Confederacy without a more explicit promise to support its causes in the future, and wonder why it chose the southern states rather than the Boer colonies for their support, but this doesn't detract from the reader's enjoyment.cters will make some readers uncomfortable, but it is certainly an accurate reflection of the times. Some readers may also question whether AWB would do so much for the Confederacy without a more explicit promise to support its causes in the future, and wonder why it chose the southern states rather than the Boer colonies for their support, but this doesn't detract from the reader's enjoyment.	2003-12-13
868489:US	49115690	R19SWKER6BP9WA	1551667363	475927242	The Snow Bride	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Feel-good booster shot	Jenna Campbell has been in love with her boss for years and the man doesn't even notice her. Finally she gives up and establishes an Internet relationship with Alaskan Dalton Gray. Dalton shares her interest in poetry, seems to be a sensitive sort, and exudes the passion that Jenna wants so badly. She won't admit it to her mother, but Jenna has hopes that Dalton will surprise her with a proposal and engagement ring. Instead, no Dalton shows up to meet her. She hitches a ride from handsome but angry pilot Reid Jamison. Reid has a history with Dalton--none of it good--and when he hears Jenna's intentions, he kidnaps her instead. But when a sudden storm strands Jenna in Snowbound, Alaska, in a town whose only other woman is on vacation in Fairbanks, Jenna discovers that she could get used to the male attention. Especially Reid's.<br />Author Debbie Macomber (see more BooksForABuck.com reviews of novels by Macomber) always delivers a warm and engaging story and THE SNOW BRIDE is no exception. Reid is a fine wounded hero, angrilly denying that he'd ever need anyone, especially not a woman. Jenna comes across as a bit more naive than you'd expect from the executive assistant to one of the world's richest men, and her buy-in to the belief that romance will happen if it's meant to happen is questionable, but she is a likable character, anxious to protect her mother and unwilling to believe the worst of Dalton until she gives him a chance to tell her his story himself.<br />One of Macomber's strengths is her secondary characters and SNOW delivers a herd of them in the crusty bachelors of Snowbound, Jenna's much-married mother, and the bewildered billionaire.<br />THE SNOW BRIDE is a super-quick read and a feel-good booster shot.	2003-12-11
868634:US	49115690	R15XP2SX7MUMCY	0670031437	150865010	Voice of the Violin (Inspector Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Charming and deep mystery. Nice	When his police car hits a legally parked car, Inspector Montabano has to hurry on to make his appointment. Still, he's surprised when he passes by that evening and sees the car, unmoved, his note still in the windshield. Acting on a hunch, he picks the nearby house's lock and discovers the reason why no one investigated. A beautiful woman lies smothered in her bed. Montabano begins an investigation, but is soon taken off the case. The police leadership wants faster results and more modern methods. But these modern methods lead to a police shooting and a cover-up--one that the Mafia quicly learn about and that threaten to give them power over the police. Acting against orders, Montabano decides to re-open the investigation. He's got to find some way to find the real killer, end the coverup, and eliminate the possibility of giving the Mafia blackmail control over the local police.<br />Author Andrea Camilleri takes his time with this mystery, giving us details of life in modern Sicily. The smells, tastes, and passions of Italy come through clearly in Camilleri's story-telling. Montalbano makes a fine protagonist with his strong cynical streak balanced by an idealistic desire to find the real killer and to protect his police force. Montalbano's personal problems (the failure of his attempt to adopt and the deterioration of his relationship with Livia) add to the character depth and his relationship with his fellow officers gives the story just the right comic touch.<br />I enjoyed the way Camilleri brought in the political aspects of police work. When necessary, Montalbano used television reporters and political pressure to get at the truth. U.S. fans will also get a kick out of the way Montalbano refers to American cops and the U.S. justice system.	2003-12-11
869394:US	49115690	R2XECNC4REDX4E	0892967773	890350588	The Jupiter Myth	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Exciting adventure in Roman London	Marcus Didius Falco and his family are waiting to return to Rome after a successful investigation in Britain when a body is discovered in a bar well. Falco is an informant so he gets the job of investigating. Unfortunately, the dead man was one Falco knew--a criminal. And Falco soon learns that the death is associated with a criminal gang that seems to have virtually taken over Roman London. Falco's problems escalate when his wife adopts a teenaged runaway girl, and when Falco himself runs into the lover he left behind--a beautiful acrobat who has become a female gladiator.<br />In the first century A.D., Roman Britain is still fresh, Rome is still an expanding power, and Britain is the ragged edge of Empire. Still, Roman customs are being introduced to Britain--baths, gladiators, olives, and wine. And the gods, of course. But it takes a while for Falco to determine that there is a connection between all of the wineshops, whorehouses, and theaters named after Jupiter. The connection is the gang--a gang that is another very Roman innovation in Britain. And it turns out that Falco and his best friend Petronius Longus had faced that gang before, back in Rome.<br />Author Lindsey Davis does a fine job drawing a picture of early Empire law enforcement. In each of the Falco books, Falco seems to emerge as a more interesting character and his relationship with Helena continues to deepen. Politics and corruption are not modern inventions and Davis describes the ancient version of the Mafia in intriguing detail. In THE JUPITER MYTH, Falco spends a lot of time chasing badguys, battling for his life and generally adventuring rather than sneakily crime-solving, but that doesn't keep MYTH from being an exciting story and even, occasionally, a heart-warming romance.	2003-12-10
873326:US	49115690	R137W5QCNPGNVF	0345447603	459337150	Trading in Danger	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Pretty good action story with fine 3-dimensional character	When she's kicked out of the military academy, Kylara (Ky) Vatta is quickly assigned to be Captain of one of her family's aging merchant ships. The journey will keep her out of the public eye, and give the Vatta family a chance to see what Ky can do on her own. Although Ky had been certain she would pursue a career in the military, she quickly turns to the family creed of making money. Unfortunately for Ky, a civil war in the system where she goes to pick up agricultural machinery and problems with her faster-than-light drive lead her to more adventure than most of her academy cohorts will ever see.<br />TRADING IN DANGER starts slowly as Ky deals with her rejection at the academy, her first command (almost babysat by extremely senior crewmen and crewwomen) and her grandmother's notorious fruitcake. Once mercenaries attack the system where she is taking on cargo and intersystem communications are lost, the pace picks up as Ky is forced to deal with irrational crewmen, mercenaries who would as soon shoot as ask questions, and passengers who have their own ideas of what to do and aren't ready to take Ky's decisions as final.<br />Author Elizabeth Moon delivers a satisfying story and an intriguing character in Ky Vatta. There did seem to be a number of loose ends that Moon could have integrated more fully into the story, however. The spaceship model seems just a little too perfect. How could the Master Sergeant have guessed exactly what Ky would need? And how did Ky persuade herself not to crack the obvious code that he left her? I also expected a bit more of a bang from the frequently mentioned fruitcake. This type of 'artifact' is common in first drafts but an author with Moon's skills normally eliminates them before the novel sees the printing press.<br />Despite its slow start and some extraneous pieces, TRADING IN DANGER is a generally satisfying read and Ky makes an interesting and multidimensional character.	2003-12-08
874366:US	49115690	RAELX34YVIH2X	006054855X	261641355	The Bromeliad Trilogy : Truckers, Diggers, and Wings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Funny and exciting stories of nomes and humans	The Nomes are dying out. Foxes, trucks, and cold have wittled their numbers down to a small group of mostly older nomes. Hunter Masklin isn't the nome leader, but he is the only nome with a plan, and his plan is to get them on a truck and take them to wherever the humans keep their food and warmth. What he finds is a store--a store full of nomes who think the store is the universe and that Arnold Bros. (est. 1905) created this universe specifically for them. The store nomes don't have any use for outsiders--they simply don't fit in their theology, but the nome 'thing' that Masklin brought suddenly comes to life. It's an artificial intelligence autopilot that is a part of the ship that originally brought them to Earth and it's learned that the store is about to be demolished. Instead of a couple of dozen nomes, Masklin finds himself responsible for thousands.<br />Nomes are about as smart as humans which, unfortunately, means that they jump to a lot of false conclusions. But Masklin knows he needs to get the entire group out of the store before it's too late--and they can't do it on foot. The result is a progressive technology escalation as the nomes try to establish a new home for themselves.<br />Author Terry Pratchett leaves his much-loved Discworld to set a fantasy on human-dominated Earth. Like Swift's Gulliver's Travels (often referred to by the nomes), Pratchett uses the device of small and large people to poke fun at many human preconceptions. Fortunately, Pratchett is a terrific author, which means that he can make philosophical statements in the context of an exciting story that will keep you laughing out loud. Masklin, Grimma, Angalo, and especially Gurder are well developed and sympathetic characters.<br />These 1989/1990 works by Pratchett lack a bit of the depth that some of his latest novels deliver, but that doesn't keep THE BROMELIAD TRILOGY from being a fun and enjoyable read. If you're a Pratchett fan (like myself), you owe this one to yourself.	2003-12-07
878535:US	49115690	R3BMFY7XBU5V7A	0060542128	78002290	When the Storm Breaks	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Strong finish doesn't compensate for weak start	Executive Claire Lambert has the stupendous bad luck to witness a serial killer at work. She barely escapes from his murderous intentions, but whacks herself on the head in the mean time. As a result, she does not remember anything about the entire event. But the killer doesn't know that, and thus Claire becomes his special target, the one that got away, his &quot;sweet prey.&quot; And Detective Sean Richter makes it his personal business to protect her until this sick puppy is caught and put out of commission. Unfortunately, Claire and Sean's instant and stunning attraction complicates things.<br />I wanted to like this book, I really did. Women-in-jeopardy stories are a personal favorite, and I had high hopes for Lowell, daughter of veteran romance and romantic suspense author Elizabeth Lowell. But this story was just too familiar, and there were no unusual plot twists or emotional underpinnings to make this tale stand out from the crowd. The main characters were likable, but didn't truly &quot;live&quot; for me. They felt like constructs.<br />I will say that the last 50 pages were gripping, proving that Lowell can write a riveting action sequence. But I would have liked to see more of this type of writing throughout the book.	2003-12-03
878888:US	49115690	R2NOVXGQ2LMOWS	1879505444	219169409	The Screenwriter's Bible: A Complete Guide to Writing, Formatting, and Selling Your Script	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Fundamentals of writing, formatting, and selling a script	Author David Trottier's monthly columns on screenplay format for Scr(i)pt Magazine are always a must-read, so I had high hopes for his book, which I probably should have read a long time ago. I wasn't disappointed.<br />The Screenwriter's Bible presents everything a beginning or novice screenwriter needs to put together a professional script and market it. The information is concise and clearly presented so anybody can grasp it, using lots of concrete examples, some from classic movies and some from the author's own scripts.<br />The Screenwriter's Bible is divided into six sub-books. Book I outlines story-telling basics, including information specific to movie-making. The second book is a step-by-step workbook putting the Book I knowledge to use. Book III is all about format--and this is, perhaps, the book's greatest strength and the reason most people buy it. The information is current and well-organized. Book IV is about how to make your spec script stand out from the crowd, from a script consultant's point of view, and offers sound advice for revising and polishing. Book V covers how to market a script (an art form in itself). The last book is a list of resources, such as consultants, books and websites, contests, conferences, etc.<br />If I have one picky comment, it's the made-up script Trottier uses to illustrate the different elements of format. It's intended to be a joke, but it's so bad it's distracting. I would think someone who sets himself up as an expert would come up with a sample that better illustrates his talent and serves as an example to his students.	2003-12-03
880616:US	49115690	R2HUSN3KFUOLB7	0066213002	678755023	Scaredy Cat: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Darkly fascinating	When two young women are found strangled in London, the police suspect a link. But they seem different in some ways. Eventually Detective Inspector Tom Thorne suspects two killers, linked somehow but operating alone. One of those killers proves to be easy enough to catch, but the other, his current identity a secret, is more challenging indeed. That killer strikes for pleasure, and gains further pleasure from the pain he causes others--including his fellow killer.<br />Thorne and his unit are obsessed with the killer, but have to manage their other responsibilities as well. England may not be the murder kingdom that the U.S. is, but murder, like fast food, has been imported and taken. Meanwhile, the police have to deal with their own issues--sexual tensions among the detectives, alcoholism, and drug abuse. Thorne doesn't have a home life, but he does have an aging father who has begun behaving more and more erratically.<br />Author Mark Billingham delivers a darkly fascinating and exciting suspense novel. Thorne and the killer play a battle of wits that each intends to win. Thorne hates the price he has to pay to capture the killer and the killer savors his kills, but they are alike in their willingness to make any sacrifice to achieve their goals. Fans of Bill James will love SCAREDY CAT and anticipate more books by Billingham.	2003-12-02
883770:US	49115690	R3U9UZBN5OCWN0	0767915593	238389596	Straight Talking: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Well written but unlikable character	Anastasia (Tasha) is thirty and single. She knows that she's pretty, makes a good living in London television, and has plenty of friends, but her relationships may last a single night or nine months, but they never turn into Mr. Right. Sometimes the passion is there but nothing else. And with her friend Adam, there is love without passion--which simply isn't enough for Tasha.<br />Author Jane Green uses a conversations first person style to narrate Tasha's adventures in London. She hangs out with her girlfriends, sees her psychologist, and wonders why she can't find the relationship that will make her happy. She sleeps with several men (but not so many that she's really slutty), and spends most of her time with her friends talking about her men or their men--none of whom are worth bringing home in the first place. Of course, Adam has been growing on her, but Adam simply doesn't create the kind of fireworks that Tasha feels she needs.<br />Green is a good writer and her writing holds the reader's interest. Tasha, however, is not an especially likable character. She falls hard for Simon who doesn't seem to have anything going for him, waits for him to call her even when he's sleeping with a beautiful model, and treats Adam like dirt. We're led to believe that Adam is really a special and understanding guy, but I couldn't help wondering why he would like someone as superficial as Tasha unless he had his own issues.<br />STRAIGHT TALKING is classic Chick Lit. Women living in the big city, making big money, reject any man who is interested in them and go for the men who aren't available--and then feel sorry for themselves when things don't work out. If you like this kind of story, you'll enjoy STRAIGHT TALKING. Green's conversational style does work.	2003-11-29
885407:US	49115690	R3H51R772F8S58	038082020X	600696241	Dread Empire's Fall : The Praxis	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Well written and engaging space opera	The last of the Shaa is about to die and the great empire of the Praxis trembles in anticipation. For Lieutenant Gareth Martinez, the future looks bad. His boss and mentor has decided to commit suicide to mark the Shaa's passage and Martinez is abandoned. But a space yacht accident gives Martinez a chance to plan a rescue--and to meet the beautiful but troubled Cadet Caroline Sula. Any chance at bliss falls quickly when Sula runs and Martinez detects a plot by the Naxid, formerly one of the races subject to the Shaa (along with humans and others).<br />Author Walter Jon Williams creates an exciting SF adventure that will remind readers of classic space opera. Williams balances political maneuvers with military maneuvers, develops the beginnings of a romance between the two lead characters, and provides enough science to satisfy hard-core SF readers.<br />Of the characters, Sula is the deeper and more fascinating. Sula hides a secret that is likely to be discovered at any time and that will destroy her when the government finally learns it. Her brutal past motivated her actions and molded her into the person she is in the story. Some readers, including me, will be uncomfortable with how she finally replaced Caro Sula despite all of Williams' efforts to make Caro an unsympathetic character.<br />Williams' writing is strong and engaging and he develops a number of secondary characters (especially Martinez's football crazy Captain) to the point where they come alive.	2003-11-28
885948:US	49115690	R3OH98Y3X13JR1	0399150870	884197365	Stone Cold (A Jesse Stone Novel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Mystery=Good.  Ex-wife=Bad	When a dead body turns up with two bullets, fired from different guns, police chief Jesse Stone knows he has a problem. When a second body has the same wounds, he knows he has a pair of serial killers on his beat. But knowing about serial killers and finding them are two different things. Especially when the killers seem to plan their strikes carefully and their escapes even more carefully. Jesse's small-town police department becomes even busier when a high school girl is gang-raped by three schoolmates. Jesse has no evidence and the rapists threaten to ruin the girl's life if she tells, but Jesse intends to bring whatever justice is possible.<br />Jesse's professional life is busy, but his social life is packed. He can't get over his ex-wife and she certainly won't let him. And every other woman he meets, with the possible exception of one of his fellow cops, is ready to fall directly into bed with him. Jesse is willing to do the bed thing, but he makes it clear that he's waiting to resolve things with the ex-wife--and the resolution he wants is a return to their marriage. Since their relationship seems completely sick (as confirmed by their psychologists), that isn't an especially desirable thing for the reader but it is what Jesse wants.<br />Robert B. Parker is an excellent writer. His characterization of Jesse Stone is strong and rings true. Jesse tries to live his life by a sharply defined set of rules--love is forever, justice is important, revenge is worth having, physical violence can solve problems or at least make things feel better, and talking too much is a big mistake. Jesse's treatment of the young rape victim is sympathetic and nicely handled.<br />Fans of Robert B. Parker won't be surprised by the difficult relationship Jesse maintains with his ex-wife--this is a recurring theme in Parker's fiction. Jesse knows he would be better off if he could just get over Jenn but he can't. From a reader's perspective, I certainly wish he would. The woman simply isn't good for him. Rules and ethics or not, I find Jesse less sympathetic and more pathetic because of his hopeless love affair. STONE COLD is a short novel with plenty of white space. I wish that more had been devoted to the mystery and less to Jesse's miserable love life--especially since all sorts of attractive, friendly, and relatively healthy women are lining up to spend time with him.mply isn't good for him. Rules and ethics or not, I find Jesse less sympathetic and more pathetic because of his hopeless love affair. STONE COLD is a short novel with plenty of white space. I wish that more had been devoted to the mystery and less to Jesse's miserable love life--especially since all sorts of attractive, friendly, and relatively healthy women are lining up to spend time with him.	2003-11-27
888199:US	49115690	RSY53MRW56WI8	1575667797	550587818	Death At The Spring Plant Sale: A Gardening Mystery (Gardening Mysteries)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Pleasant diversion	When her husband and daughter go out of town, PBS journalist Louise Eldridge decides to do a television show on her friend's gardening club sale and then spend a few days visiting. When the gardening club president is killed--in the car with her husband, the country's top economist, Eldridge decides to go into full-time detective mode. If the killer was a hit-man who botched an assassination of the economist, Eldridge knows she can't do much, but if, as she suspects, the gardening club was involved, then she better than the police, has a chance to solve the murder.<br />Eldridge is assisted in her investigations by her friend, housewife Emily Holiday. Holiday's overcontrolling husband tries to oppose their investigation, but he spends his time at work and Holiday and Eldridge have all day to chase after gardeners, discover the economist's affairs, and learn the dirt on who would benefit from the club president's death. Sure enough, there are a number of candidates and in the Republican suburb of Bethesda, Maryland, all of them are armed and trained.<br />Author Ann Ripley writes an approachable mystery that incorporates a female-supportive message as well. The women in the story, whether housewives or professional women, may be underestimated by the men in their lives, but it is they who keep things going. Protagonist Eldridge is generally likable although she seems to have a bit of an inflated view of her own importance and is hurt when the police don't drop everything to consider her theories of the case.<br />DEATH AT THE SPRING PLANT SALE is a pleasant diversion. It is a perfect book to take along on that next airline flight.	2003-11-25
890063:US	49115690	R1Z1FMNPYYW5WX	159286368X	961243000	Limpy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting western adventure	An injury in a bull ride ends Limpy's rodeo career, but a rodeo clown saves his life. He agrees to help out the dying clown's family but arrives in Wyoming too late. Night riders are doing their best to drive African-Americans from their farms--or kill them altogether, and have destroyed the clown's family. Limpy takes a job with a ranch, but the foreman takes an instant dislike to him--a dislike that only grows when the rancher's daughter takes a shine to Limpy and when Limpy backs up a group of blacks when the foreman and his gang threaten them.<br />Author Duane R. Ethington delivers an exciting western adventure. Limpy faces the brutal cold of the north, an icy river, attacking wolves, and that most dangerous opponent--a band of desperate men after his life. Ethington's action scenes sparkle with danger and emotional intensity.<br />Limpy is a prototypical silent cowboy, intent on doing his job no matter the obstacles and no matter what the costs to himself. Like most of us, Limpy is far from perfect and suffers from doubts. But unlike most of us, he carries through despite his doubts. Although not immune to the racism that was universal in this earlier time (LIMPY appears to have been set around the turn of the 19th century), he shows that a man can overcome even this taint by following basic ethical rules.<br />Fans of western adventure won't go wrong with this exciting story.	2003-11-24
890320:US	49115690	R3V0TOPHCT0I4	006039384X	776351801	Mirror Mirror: A Novel	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Lyrically written with interesting take on Lucrezia Borgia	When Cesar Borgia sends Bianca de Nevada's father on a mission to recover the remaining apples from the tree of knowledge, Lucrezia Borgia agrees to watch over his daughter. But his mission takes Bianca's father away for years and, as she grows older, Bianca attracts the attention of Cesar. Lucrezia's jealousy excited, the Borgia pays a hunter to kill Bianca in the forest--where she is watched over by seven dwarves. Oh, and there's a magical mirror--an artifact that the dwarves badly want returned to them.<br />Author Gregory Maguire has retold the story of sleeping beauty, set in late renassaince Italy. The beautiful and much abused Lucrezia makes an intriguing villain--sympathetic but capable of acts of complete selfishness and cruelty. Maguire's writing adds a lyrical and mystical quality to the story, making the magical appear normal and part of everyday life.<br />Beyond Lucrezia, the dwarves are fascinating constructs. The seven (or eight) dwarves are on a doubtful journey toward humanity but retain much of their mineral past. Through their care of Bianca and her father, the dwarves achieve individual identities, names, and the enfirmities of age and aging. Bianca remains something of a non-character spending most of her time asleep, or trustingly opening the door to another of Lucrezia's attempts to kill her.<br />Maguire's writing is strong enough, and his characterizations of Lucrezia and the dwarves interesting enough to compensate for a story that consists of the primary character sleeping most of the book away.	2003-11-23
890802:US	49115690	R22MZHNPN5J3P7	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fascinating and powerful	Federal Marshal Teddy Daniels arrives at Shutter Island looking for proof of a terrible conspiracy--he has evidence that the doctors at the Island's mental institution are engaging in experiments similar to those undertaken by the Nazis. Together with his partner, Chuck Aule, Teddy begins by investigating an impossible escape. Although the doctors seem compassionate, Teddy knows that something isn't right. And when he begins feeling physical symptoms, he suspects that he will not be allowed off the island again. Yet, the escaped woman seems to be sending him messages in code, messages that might reveal what he needs to escape and to reclaim his own life.<br />Author Dennis Lehane writes a compelling suspense novel. War hero Teddy Daniels is a fascinating character, haunted by the death of his wife and the man who killed her--a man he knows to be on the island. He soon learns that, with drugs, the boundary between sanity and insanity is not always clear--and may be controlled by others.<br />SHUTTER ISLAND is a fascinating examination of a man. Daniels's questions about sanity, about government research, and about the line between justice and revenge are fundamental issues both for the character and for everyone, adding depth to the story. Lehane's strong writing propells the reader through the story just as Daniels is propelled from one danger to the next.<br />The novel is a quick read, but it is one of those stories that sticks with you, repaints your memories--and the way you see the world. Highly recommended.	2003-11-23
891467:US	49115690	RTOHSGLT51U2Y	006620979X	63603345	Kill Two Birds & Get Stoned (Friedman, Kinky)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thoughtful and insightful	Novelist Walter Snow hasn't been able to write a word in seven years when he meets a beautiful woman with a strange request. Will he put a package for her into his safety deposit box. Walter isn't sure what he is getting into and doesn't particularly care. The woman, Clyde, is beautiful, Walter is bored, and when he sees Clyde, he begins to feel faint hints of his old urge to write. The arrival of the police two weeks later doesn't especially surprise Walter. What does please him, however, is that Clyde zooms back into his life, along with her larger than life friend Fox. The two sweep Walter into their world of scams, Quixotic gestures, and ultimately a battle for the soul of New York (against the souless Starbucks and Donald Trump).<br />Author Kinky Friedman uses the narative device of a story within a story--Walter tells his story, occasionally slipping in the (rather bad) text of the semi-autobiographical and semi-wish-fulfilment novel that Walter is presumably writing. Friedman's thoughts on writing are occasionally brutal, frequently true, and sometimes hysterical to the point where I considered listing this review in my writing reviews rather than in the mystery section. But it is the characters and the quest that drive this book and that ultimately make it worth reading.<br />Unlike Walter, Clyde and Fox are a little too good for this world and Friedman lets us know that their endings will not be happy. Yet their goals are partly noble. The way that the quest ultimately backfires hits with an emotional impact, yet could have been predicted from the start. After all, Fox and Clyde only take on lost causes.<br />If you're looking for knee-slapping humor, this may not be the right Friedman story for you. But if you're looking for Friedman's attempt to really say something about our world, then KILL TWO BIRDS &amp; GET STONED is a great place to start.	2003-11-22
891936:US	49115690	RDE139K1SQI9S	0060536705	956542328	Who Will Take This Man? (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable historical romance	It wasn't easy, but marriage broker Meredith Chilton-Grizedale has found the perfect bride for Lord Philip Whitmore, Viscount Greybourne. But when his story about a curse breaks the engagement, Meredith sees her business prospects fading quickly. As she works with Philip to break the curse, she finds that her own heart is breaking because there's nothing she'd like so much as to be his bride--and that will forever be an impossible dream.<br />Philip has spent the previous decade on the continent, exploring Egypt, Syria, and Italy and sending home crates of treasure to add to the wealth of the British Museum. When he learns that his father is dying, he hurries home to live up to his promise to marry, but it doesn't take long for him to decide he wants the pretty marriage broker rather than any of the rich aristocrats she parades in front of her. But Philip doesn't dare risk Meredith until he can break the curse--and then there's the matter of someone who seems bent on destroying Philip and everyone he loves.<br />Author Jacquie D'Alessandro adds a bit of Egyptian magic to the familiar romance device of the matchmaker falling in love with her subject. In general, her writing is strong and sensual, with the sexual tension running strong between the characters and a convincing motivation (the curse) for why they could never get together. I found the secondary romance between two of Meredith's strays to be a bit of a distraction but many romance fans will find that this adds to the romantic texture.	2003-11-22
892560:US	49115690	R2GGT9Z6FYQ505	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent, a definite keeper	In the not-too distant future, humanity is extinct. Post-humans have colonized the solar system but even they have changed or vanished. What they have left behind are semi-human Earth-dwellers who have forgotten all knowledge and live only for pleasure; a terraformed Mars where the battle of Troy is being replayed and where the Greek Gods squabble and urge the Greek and Trojan heros to greater killing and death; and an outer system (asteroid belt/Jupiter's moons) inhabited by intelligent self-aware androids.<br />ILIUM weaves three separate story lines--a group of Earth-dwellers who dream of ascending to the sky, a twentieth century scholar brought back to life to chronicle the Trojan war, and a pair of androids who make their way from the Jovian moons to the Mars of Zeus and Hera.<br />Author Dan Simmons writes a powerful and emotionally satisfying adventure. Initially the Trojan war sequences grab the reader and these remain the most action-packed and interesting of the three story lines, but the other two quickly become fascinating as well. Simmons offers a convincing view of a future earth torn by RNA terrorists, inhabited only by a remnant population of lotus-eating human descendents (and by a version of wily Odyseus), and of scientific Gods who share the original Olympian indifference to the fates of men and their joy in destruction. By the time scholar Hockenberry decides to wage a war on the Gods, I was ready to support him.<br />Simmons' view of the future is dark, but tinged with hope--that humanity can prevail even though humans, as we know them, are virtually extinct. His writing is so strong that you truly care. Fans of classical literature (whether Homer, Shakespeare, or Proust) will also delight in the way that Simmons mixes in characters and devices from these authors--in ways that extend rather than distort the meanings of the original works. But then, if you aren't a fan of old-dead-authors, I think you'll still get a lot of enjoyment out of ILIUM.<br />This one is a definite keeper.UM. <br />This one is a definite keeper.	2003-11-21
893829:US	49115690	R1ESOZD4RXDC9G	0060092165	101556657	Two Cooks A-Killing: An Angie Amalfi Mystery	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not as good as earlier books in series	Career-challenged chef Angie Amalfi has been hired to cook a sumptuous Christmas dinner for a TV show, and she couldn't be more thrilled. Not only will she get to meet the stars of her favorite nighttime soap as they reassemble for a holiday reunion show, but she'll get to show off her cooking skills to Hollywood and maybe become the next TV celebrity chef. But when she arrives at the winery where the \\"Eagle Crest\\" reunion is to be taped, reality falls far short of her expectations. The actors are a bunch of self-absorbed, bitter people who seem to be obsessed with an \\"accidental\\" death of a young actress that took place on this very set 11 years ago. Angie decides that if her feast is to be anything but a disaster, she must solve the mystery of what happened to Brittany Keegan and get people focused again on holiday cheer and her wonderful cooking.<br />Meanwhile, Angie's fiance, detective Paavo Smith, is off solving a series of gang-related killings and the disappearance of a \\"little person.\\"<br />While this mystery series endures and plucky Angie is always likable, I can't say this is the strongest book in the series. For one thing, now that Angie and Paavo are engaged, the sexual tension that marked the earlier books is completely absent. Angie and Paavo are rarely even together, and the subplot with Paavo and the gang killings is not connected in any way to the main mystery--and altogether superfluous. The mystery itself, however, is clever, the various suspects are colorful. I particularly liked the scruffy tabloid reporter, Digger, who was one of the more fleshed-out characters. And the climax scene when Angie finally serves her elaborate dinner is a real hoot.<br />In short, fans of the real nighttime soaps \\"Falconcrest,\\" \\"Dynasty,\\" and \\"Dallas\\" will enjoy this homage to the genre, and die-hard Angie Amalfi devotees will also enjoy it. If you're new to the series, however, you might try the earlier books, particularly the first two, which are still available.ble.	2003-11-20
897187:US	49115690	R35M6XY73PYHDN	0786711639	940420744	City of Strangers: A Jack Liffey Mystery (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Powerful, emotionally moving. This is a good one	Since losing his job as an aerospace engineer, Jack Liffey has become something of a specialist in finding missing children. So, when an old school acquaintance asks him to find his missing daughter, Liffey is happy to help out--even if the acquaintance insists on reports and psychological analysis (he's a psychologist). The missing daughter was associated with four Persian-american high school boys, also missing. It doesn't seem like an especially difficult case, although the arrival of an FBI agent gives Liffey a hint that things are going to get difficult.<br />Liffey's investigation takes him from Los Angeles to Mexican border towns, involves Arabic terrorists, terrorizing Mexican drug dealers, and layers of government corruption, lies, and secrets. As always, Liffey finds a portion of what he is looking for--and a lot more. Persian-American student Fariborz Bayat plays a major role in helping Liffey and, through Liffey, gains a deeper understanding of his humanity, his relationship with Islam, and his moral senses.<br />Author John Shannon has created a powerful and complex character in Jack Liffey. His love for his daughter, philosophical approach to the world, anguish over his erratic sexual performance, and tough moral code make him both admirable and approachable. As a reader, I'm not sure I would like Liffey, but I am sure I would want to have him on my side.<br />Shannon knows that moral questions can be tough, that an assurance of righteousness is often the mask of evil, and that goodness exists outside of the arbitrary whim of a God--but he conveys his message through story rather than through artifice. CITY OF STRANGERS is a powerful and emotionally moving story. I highly recommend it.	2003-11-17
899195:US	49115690	R2YSO37GZD0W5Q	0060510862	223407615	Forever War, The	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Powerful and timely anti-war message	Drafted into a United Nations space army after humanity is attacked by mysterious aliens, William Mandella participates in an early victory and returns to earth a hero. But (thanks to relativity) the earth he returns to is strange and dangerous--and jobless. Mandella reenlists--only to be sent back into combat. With each mission, more earth-time passes and Mandella grows more distant from the civilization that sends him into conflict. But each mission also brings him closer to death because the enemy is advancing quickly in their martial abilities.<br />Author Joe Haldeman made some misguesses in terms of 21st century technology (he dramatically underestimated progress in computers and display technology and overestimated progress in lasers) and guessed that Viet Nam would be the last U.S. war action for a generation, but he tells a powerful story of soldiers fighting a war that they don't understand.<br />The anti-war message of THE FOREVER WAR is clear and powerful. With the U.S. at war now (in Iraq at this writing), an anti-war message will be unpopular to some. But our current war makes THE FOREVER WAR an essential work. Haldeman ends his story with a nasty twist, and with a heartwarming surprise.<br />THE FOREVER WAR is an important book, freshly edited to restore Haldeman's original message and impact (the 1970s version was really FOREVER lite. A few editorial errors remain--especially the abrupt transitions between calorie and dollar denominations, but these shouldn't detract from reader enjoyment. I read FOREVER when it came out in the 70s and was struck by its power. The new edition adds to the impact.	2003-11-16
900038:US	49115690	RF6TYZE4ZVATG	0060538120	423076135	Offer of Proof: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mostly fascinating legal mystery	Public defender Arch Gold gets the case of a lifetime dropped into his lap--the first New York death penalty case in recent memory. And unlike most of his clients, this one, an 18-year-old accused of capital murder, is innocent, the victim of mistaken identity. Arch is willing to do just about anything to save this kid's life. And even when the murder victim's prints are found on the suspect's money--a devastating blow to his case--Arch doesn't lost faith.<br />Arch thinks he knows who really killed Charlotte King. But he can't find proof. And the man he suspects, a very powerful private investigator, makes for a formidable foe.<br />This was a fascinating legal mystery, told with utter confidence and all the realistic details that make you believe it's all true. However, the climax felt rushed. There was a gun, and then it was over, literally in one sentence. And the twist at the end was so out of left field that it felt jarring, Given the very realistic tone of the rest of the book. Still, an above-average read by this first-time author, whose mother is mystery writer Amanda Cross. Must be in the blood.	2003-11-15
900172:US	49115690	ROCHELUQ45DZG	0312316690	556245860	The Tristan Betrayal	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Exciting concept, falls short in some details	France has fallen, Hitler's Nazi Germany has gulped down half of Europe, and the Axis has formed a strong alliance with Russia, the only continental power with the strength to face Germany in the field. Although America has not yet entered the World War 2, F.D.R.'s spymasters know that the time will come when the U.S. will be drawn into conflict. But if only Britain remains as Germany's enemy, then defeat seems inevitable. American spy, Stephen Metcalfe is assigned a high-risk task--making contact with a Russian woman he once loved--a woman whose father is a Russian general and whose lover is a German diplomat, and using her to slip the Germans faked information about Russian military preparedness. Germany must be induced to attack Russia and give America the ally it needs.<br />Metcalfe is pursued from Paris, to Moscow, and finally to Berlin by a German assassin intent on uncovering the plot and saving Germany from American tricks. In Russia, Soviet spies also converge on Metcalfe, themselves certain that Metcalfe intends to destroy their nation if he can. Somehow Metcalfe has to stay ahead of both Gestapo and Soviet intelligence--and against his own nation's willingness to sacrifice an asset if it will help the cause.<br />Robert Ludlum was one of the greatest suspense authors ever before his death in 2001. THE TRISTAN BETRAYAL shows both Ludlum's incredible story-telling talents and the weaknesses of digging up and completing works that authors had decided not to pursue. The overall structure of TRISTAN is pure thrill. Metcalfe's adventures and the German assassin's pursuit compell the story forward. Ludlum's descriptions of occupied Paris, besieged Berlin, and terrorized Moscow are powerful reminders of Ludlum's narrative talent. But a key mark of a Ludlum book is the cleverness with which the hero overcomes obstacles. Here, all too often, Metcalfe uses the old gambit of pretending to know somebody higher up--someone who will be disturbed if annoyed at home. You can get away with this trick once or twice, but more often than that and it begins to sound like you're facing a bunch of losers. Ludlum would have rewritten these sections until they shone. Unfortunately, Ludlum wasn't able to do so and the book suffered as a result.<br />THE TRISTAN BETRAYAL is Robert Ludlum at far from his best. Still, even adequate Ludlum is worth reading and TRISTAN makes for an exciting read.ou can get away with this trick once or twice, but more often than that and it begins to sound like you're facing a bunch of losers. Ludlum would have rewritten these sections until they shone. Unfortunately, Ludlum wasn't able to do so and the book suffered as a result. <br />THE TRISTAN BETRAYAL is Robert Ludlum at far from his best. Still, even adequate Ludlum is worth reading and TRISTAN makes for an exciting read.	2003-11-15
901813:US	49115690	R3TGNVTZKO6GGA	0060514116	763055097	The Pleasure of Her Kiss (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Maybe a bit too illogical	Two years after his wedding, Jared, Earl of Hawkesly is ready to go home and set about bedding his wife. He expects a compliant young woman and is surprised to discover that Kate has turned his hunting lodge into a tavern, runs an orphanage in his home, and has sold his Turners and other valuables to support her project. Since Kate doesn't even recognize him, Jared adopts an assumed identity in order to discover the truth.<br />Touched by the terrible potato famine which is depopulating Ireland, Kate has bent all of her resources to saving the Irish. To some extent, that means feeding the nine children she has personally accepted. But to a larger extent, that means stealing grain from the British lords who import food from Ireland despite the mass starvation on that island, returning it to feed the poor. Despite Jared's arrival, Kate is completely unwilling to give up her family and her vocation. What she doesn't count on is that Jared was made Earl because he is a spy for Her Magisty, Victoria's government. Caught in an impass, Kate refuses to consumate her marriage with Jared until he agrees to a good home for the children--and when he finds one, demands that he adopt them. Even then, she keeps her terrible secret--that she is a thief and has involved Jared's ship in action that is illegal and maybe treason.<br />THE PLEASURE OF HER KISS is an interesting novel. Author Linda Needham's style is approachable and her love scenes sizzle. But both primary characters' logic seems badly warped. Why did Jared wait two years to claim his wife? He never explained, and Kate, oddly enough, never asked. Then too, Jared's decision to go undercover to discover what his wife was up to makes no sense. Why wouldn't he identify himself and call for an explanation. Certainly if he had gone undercover, wouldn't he have investigated instead of gone fishing? The book read as if Needham needed a story hook--and mistaken identity was the one that came up in her whack-pack.<br />Kate's decision to use theft to supply her Irish soup kitchens simply defies logic. Surely her goal is to save the starving Irish. And surely she knows that she'll be caught eventually if she insists on stealing. If she had already attempted to raise British sympathies and been turned down, perhaps the theft would be more sympathetic.decision to use theft to supply her Irish soup kitchens simply defies logic. Surely her goal is to save the starving Irish. And surely she knows that she'll be caught eventually if she insists on stealing. If she had already attempted to raise British sympathies and been turned down, perhaps the theft would be more sympathetic.	2003-11-14
902251:US	49115690	R1523DMNZLICDR	0060538112	399282853	Amelia Peabody's Egypt	Books	5	85	90	N	N	Great photos, wonderful Victorian-era Egypt details	AMELIA PEABODY'S EGYPT: A COMPENDIUM is a collection of articles about Egypt and Victorian culture, 19th century Egyptian history, early archeology, and a comprehensive listing of places and people (both fictional and historical) that are listed in the growing collection of Amelia Peabody historical mysteries. The compendium also includes a huge number of period photographs and etchings that depict Egypt and archeological digs as they existed in the time when Emerson and Amelia were digging, solving mysteries, and confounding the German/Turkish invaders.<br />Readers looking for a detailed history of Victorian Egypt should probably look elsewhere for their primary material but will want to consider adding the compendium as a secondary source. But fans of the Elizabeth Peters mystery series can hardly go wrong with this fascinating look at the culture and history of Egyptology.<br />Recommendation--if you're a Peters fan, print out this review and leave it where present-giving significant others will find it. Underline the words 'MUST HAVE.' Alternately, buy it for yourself. The pictures alone are worth the price and then some. It's a treasure.	2003-11-13
902964:US	49115690	R9LA2RF7PGFHN	0786930128	637698164	The Lone Drow (Forgotten Realms: The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Orcs attack--but are they only fighting for freedom?	Believing his friends have been killed by an orc offensive, renegade drow (dark elf) Drizzt Do'Urden begins a singlehanded war against the orc bands that stream out to join the apparently victorious cause of Obould. Aided by trolls and ice giants, the orcs appear unstoppable. The dwarves, aided by the fallen dwarf-king's adoptive human children, take up defensive positions atop a high hill with flanking forces guarding their path to the dwarf mountain fastness, but even stuborn dwarves know that they have little hope against the vast forces that the orcs bring against them.<br />Normally, orc bands collapse before they can create lasting changes in order. Internal squabbles eventually break out. Obould's allies anticipate this here--the drow who have been aiding him anticipate only the great chaos that will occur as Obould attacks--and is eventually repulsed. But Obould has other plans. He has a vision of a time when orcs can trade with other nations, can claim a country of their own, can exist among civilized people rather than be treated as monsters to be slaughtered. A victory over the dwarves will carve out the territory he needs to stake this claim. And the odd gift of semi-divinity by the orc god appears to make this dream a possibility--much to the surprise, and dismay, of his allies.<br />THE LONE DROW is the second novel in author R. A. Salvatore's Hunter's Blade Trilogy. With characters established and the primary protagonists (Drizzt and his human love interest Catti-brie) separated throughout the book, Salvatore turns to action to keep the plot moving. Most of the novel details the tactical moves made by orc or dwarf armies, and the clash of weapons as Drizzt faces orc, drow, and giant enemies. Salvatore's strong narative voice keeps the reader engaged. Fans of Salvatore, especially readers who enjoyed THE THOUSAND ORCS are certain to enjoy this novel as well. This is not the right place to begin the series, however. If you aren't already involved with the characters, THE LOEN DROW is not written to bring you in.<br />Salvatore accepts the convention that dwarves are good and orcs are bad. But Obould is not simply bad--he's a hero for his people, attempting to lead them out of the bondage that they have been held in for centuries. It will be interesting to see whether the third novel in the series can continue the sophisticated balance between a simple moralistic battle of good and evil and the development of sympathetic characters on both sides of the conflict. Certainly the entire character of Drizzt implies that an individual of an 'evil' race can be redeemed. But can an entire race? Although Obould kills a lot of people, he certainly doesn't kill more than Drizzt or Catti-bie. I'm looking forward to see how Salvatore addresses this conundrum.the characters, THE LOEN DROW is not written to bring you in. <br />Salvatore accepts the convention that dwarves are good and orcs are bad. But Obould is not simply bad--he's a hero for his people, attempting to lead them out of the bondage that they have been held in for centuries. It will be interesting to see whether the third novel in the series can continue the sophisticated balance between a simple moralistic battle of good and evil and the development of sympathetic characters on both sides of the conflict. Certainly the entire character of Drizzt implies that an individual of an 'evil' race can be redeemed. But can an entire race? Although Obould kills a lot of people, he certainly doesn't kill more than Drizzt or Catti-bie. I'm looking forward to see how Salvatore addresses this conundrum.	2003-11-13
904824:US	49115690	R1GU4B2TL36ZWC	0765303337	553414308	The Bishop Goes to the University: A Bishop Blackie Ryan Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent--best Bishop in a long time	When a visiting Orthodox Monk is found murdered in his University of Chicago office, nothing would seem to connect him to Chicago's crime-solving associate-Bishop. Nothing except the Monk's genuine Cardinal robes, robes that make no sense at all for an Orthodox monk, but make a great deal of sense to a Catholic. But what would a Catholic Cardinal be doing pretending to be Orthodox? And who would have murdered him. Of course, the monk's body is found in a closed and locked room--the kind that Auxillary Bishop Blackie solves without fail.<br />Blackie's investigation turns up a pair of lovers who need a little encouragement, and denials from both the Italian (Catholic) and Russian (Orthodox) Mafias that they had any involvement. The denial that has the least credibility comes from Blackie's source in the CIA. But why should the CIA care about a Russian monk who goes stomping around Chicago?<br />Author Andrew M. Greeley delivers a fabulous story this time. Bishop Blackie is in good form, solving mysteries, pushing lovers on the path of married happiness, espousing belief in a God who truly loves all of his creation, and braving the worst that the CIA, former KGB, and Catholic extremists have to deliver. Greeley's wit shines through and I found myself laughing out loud a number of times through this short novel.<br />Bishop Blackie uncovers a secret plot involving the CIA and the Vatican--a plot that probably didn't exist, but that could have existed in the world of the Cold War when the church formed itself as a bulwark against godless Communism. The plot, the discussions of the ancient scism between Catholic and Orthodox traditions, and Blackie's own faith add real substance to an entertaining story of mystery.	2003-11-11
905497:US	49115690	R2YZZ59ULSOQRN	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sexy story with a plus-sized heroine	Noah Harper has his life planned out. He'll marry Kara, work for his grandmother, and generally be a normal sort of guy. Except when he walks in on Kara in bed with someone else, he doesn't get mad, he gets relieved. Maybe, he realizes, he didn't really want Kara much in the first place. As to what he really wants, he doesn't figure out until voluptuous Grace Jenkins walks into his apartment to offer her support. Grace is his grandmother's secretary but she has been in lvoe with Noah for years. As long as he was engaged to Kara, she wouldn't do anything. But when Noah announced he wants Grace for his love slave, she's happy to oblige.<br />Being a love-slave is a joy for Grace--even if she did start out a virgin. Noah is a considerate lover with incredible recuperative powers and a non-stop imagination. Still, Grace is a little bit sad to know that she'll never be able to hold him. Hunky guys like Noah don't settle for fat girls like Grace--at least that's what she tells herself. When she tells Noah that, he tells her not to call herself fat and spanks her until she agrees.<br />Author Lori Foster delivers a sexy and fun romp. There isn't a lot of conflict and not much of a plot at all, but if you're looking for steamy sex, a hunky hero, and a virgin heroine who is both submissive and spunky, this is the book for you.	2003-11-11
906174:US	49115690	R20YQY6DJ4ZTMC	1551667177	784278929	At The Stroke Of Madness (Maggie O'Dell Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Delicious suspects, amusing love interest	The small town of Meriden, Connecticut, doesn't see much crime, and that's the way Sheriff Henry Watermeier likes it. The former New York cop is looking to retire soon, and he would like to do so with an unblemished record--no unsolved cases. So when a body turns up in a rusted barrel at an abandoned quarry, he's not happy about it. He's less happy when an examination of the scene turns up several more bodies, each more hideously mutilated than the next. Someone is collecting body parts.<br />FBI profiler Maggie O'Dell, now through the worst of her divorce, is supposed to be on vacation. But her psychologist friend has asked her to look into a missing patient, Joan Begley, who was in Meriden when she disappeared. It doesn't look good for Joan.<br />Henry and Maggie are just two of the players in this complex story of a twisted serial killer. There's Luc Racine, a victim of early-onset Alzheimer's who is trying to hold on to his sanity and avoid becoming the killer's next victim. There's Lillian, mystery-novel fan and amateur profiler, whose brother might be the killer. And all sorts of delicious suspects and an amusing love interest for Maggie who cooks up his vegetable beef soup on the same stove as the one he uses to boil down the bones of corpses (he's a forensic anthropologist).<br />This story is fast-paced, absorbing, and lots of fun, with just enough gritty detail to provide realism. This author reminds me of Kathy Reichs or even Patricia Cornwell. Great characters, great mystery and a villain you love to hate.	2003-11-10
908423:US	49115690	R1TB59MD7URH32	0312308418	645412990	Old Scores (Detective Barry Gilbert, 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good mystery that just misses being great	Toronto Detective Barry Gilbert is called to an apparent homicide while at a play with his wife. The victim, Glen Boyd, was a rock promoter, drug addict, and all-around bad person. He is also someone Barry knew well--the man once had an affair with Barry's wife. Despite the apparent conflict, which Barry minimizes, and evidence that Barry's wife may be involved in the murder, Barry insists on keeping the case until he is finally yanked from it, his career at risk. Besides Barry's wife, there are plenty of suspects--Glen managed to make enemies of his former associates, and his current drug dealers. When the police discover that Boyd had renewed his association with Barry's wife, things look grim indeed.<br />The crisis is deepened by an at-home crisis. Barry's teenaged daughter learns that her former lover has AIDS. Now the family must gather around and wait to learn if that deadly disease has been transmitted.<br />Author Scott Mackay's writing is professional and engaging. OLD SCORES is an easy book to pick up and read all the way through. I found, however, that Mackay missed some chances to fully engage the reader's emotion. The threat to Barry's wife never seemed real--the police told Barry that they were certain she was innocent and Barry never really lost faith. Mackay would have strengthened his story by increasing this risk. An ideal opportunity would have been to tie the daughter's possible AIDS infection in with Glen's drug-rape tendencies. Indeed, I kept waiting for Mackay to deliver this final blow to Barry and the reader and found myself let down when he simply ignored all of the setup.<br />Mackay is an engaging and capable writer and Barry Gilbert makes an interesting character. OLD SCORES is a good book that I can recommend without hesitation, even while feeling that Mackay missed some chances to make it even better.	2003-11-08
908752:US	49115690	RM7R410C5JPY9	0743457447	778104040	Hard Lovin' Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Powerful tale of lost and found dreams	Kelley Spencer has never gotten over her brief affair with Jack Morgan. Then he was the just-graduated bad-boy of the local high school and she his teacher, fresh out of college. Now she has a sister to raise--a sister who has cultivated hell-raising as an art form. Kelley is surprised to find that Jack has turned his life around. He's chief of police, a responsible single dad, and still a major heart-throb. Kelley is tempted, although it took her years to recover from Jack's betrayal. But raising her sister is more important than anything--even rekindling the one great love she ever experienced. Besides, Kelley holds a secret deep inside of herself--a secret with the potential to explode everything she lives for.<br />Jack Morgan knows what it's like to lose a parent--and Kelley's sister has recently lost both parents. She's acting out and Jack knows that the answer is clear boundaries. But Kelley doesn't seem very good at boundaries. Which is great where he is concerned. Although Kelley forced him to marry another woman, Jack has never been able to forget her. But he still has an idealized vision of her--a vision that imperfect Kelley knows she can never live up to. And losing him again would be too destructive.<br />Author Lorraine Heath marks her first contemporary romance after a strong career in historicals. It's an emotionally powerful tale of lost and found dreams. Younger sister Madison is a memorable character--damaged, sympathetic, and angry with the world. Both Jack and Kelley are strong and admirable as they strive to come to terms with their responsibilites and mistakes, and the two definitely steam up the pages when they're together.<br />Heath's strong writing really sucks in the reader, making them care for these characters, feel for their sorrow, and hope that they can somehow overcome the weight of past secrets and pains and build themselves a future of love.	2003-11-08
908775:US	49115690	R13EWUL8BE3GY6	0743457447	778104040	Hard Lovin' Man	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Powerful tale of lost and found dreams	Kelley Spencer has never gotten over her brief affair with Jack Morgan. Then he was the just-graduated bad-boy of the local high school and she his teacher, fresh out of college. Now she has a sister to raise--a sister who has cultivated hell-raising as an art form. Kelley is surprised to find that Jack has turned his life around. He's chief of police, a responsible single dad, and still a major heart-throb. Kelley is tempted, although it took her years to recover from Jack's betrayal. But raising her sister is more important than anything--even rekindling the one great love she ever experienced. Besides, Kelley holds a secret deep inside of herself--a secret with the potential to explode everything she lives for. <br />Jack Morgan knows what it's like to lose a parent--and Kelley's sister has recently lost both parents. She's acting out and Jack knows that the answer is clear boundaries. But Kelley doesn't seem very good at boundaries. Which is great where he is concerned. Although Kelley forced him to marry another woman, Jack has never been able to forget her. But he still has an idealized vision of her--a vision that imperfect Kelley knows she can never live up to. And losing him again would be too destructive. <br />Author Lorraine Heath marks her first contemporary romance after a strong career in historicals. It's an emotionally powerful tale of lost and found dreams. Younger sister Madison is a memorable character--damaged, sympathetic, and angry with the world. Both Jack and Kelley are strong and admirable as they strive to come to terms with their responsibilites and mistakes, and the two definitely steam up the pages when they're together. <br />Heath's strong writing really sucks in the reader, making them care for these characters, feel for their sorrow, and hope that they can somehow overcome the weight of past secrets and pains and build themselves a future of love.	2003-11-08
909137:US	49115690	RTRHZLBVOATP	0345458400	613120042	Flirting with Disaster	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Jane Graves does it again--Excellent	When cop Dave DeMarco gets a panicked call from Lisa Merrick, a woman he hasn't seen in years, he drops everything and flies to her rescue in Mexico. His actions surprise himself as much as anyone. But Dave, a widower with a little girl to raise has a dark side no one suspects, and secrets long-suppressed that Lisa holds the key to. He can't ignore her plea for help.<br />Lisa Merrick, working as a pilot for a humanitarian doctors' organization, has unwittingly uncovered a counterfeit drug ring. They sabotaged her plane and left her for dead, and she can't get out of Mexico without someone's help. The one person she believes might help her is the man who walked away from her after a steamy kiss in high school--the man who once told her to call if she ever needed anythig.<br />The feelings between this unlikely couple are obvious from the beginning, but the things keeping them apart are compelling--not the least of which is that neither feels they deserve the other. But more pressing obstacles include ruthless men with guns, a corrupt police department, and a smooth villain who anticipates their every move and neatly sidesteps it.<br />Jane Graves has done it again with FLIRTING WITH DISASTER, the third in her series about the DeMarco family of cops in Tolosa, Texas. With a fast pace and unexpected plot twists around every corner, Dave and Lisa's story kept me turning the pages with breathless anticipation. The action scenes had my stomach tied in knots, while the sensual scenes had my pulse pounding (and I read every word of them, too, rather than skimming as I do with many love scenes). While the light-hearted humor of the previous two installments is almost absent in this book, it's not missed at all. Taut suspense and deep emotion fill the pages, and after you read this book you'll never think about lime juice the same way.	2003-11-08
909289:US	49115690	RQAN2RS7Q0PJ7	0821774441	323503526	The Most Unsuitable Husband	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Most enjoyable treat	While travelling from her mother's funeral back to her home in Texas, Sara Kincaid fints three abandoned children starving and sick. She falls in love with them and rescues them, but turns to help from a 'businessman' she met on the river boat to St. Louis--a man who just happened to be nearby at her mother's funeral.<br />Nate Bartholomew (Barton) deserved half the money from the sale of the bar but he can't exactly confront Sarah for it. For one thing, he's supposed to be dead. For another, if he wasn't dead, the law would be after him. Still, he vows that he'll get his money back somehow. How he feels about the children Sarah rescues, how he begins to feel about Sarah herself, has nothing to do with his plan. At least not at first. And by the time it starts to matter, by the time he realizes that he wants more of the beautiful young woman, it's too late. Besides, what respectable woman would have anything to do with a con-man and a gambler like himself? Nate knows that he's not husband material.<br />Author Caroline Clemmons continues her Kincaid series with a sensuous story of love, family, and trust set in 19th century Texas and St. Louis. Fans of the series will be happy to see Storm, Pearl, and the other members of the family again. Nate makes a fine tortured hero. Sarah grows as a character through the story. Always spunky, her love for the children she rescues and her growing affection for Nate allow her to assert herself, to learn to care less about proprieties and more about what is right.<br />THE MOST UNSUITABLE HUSBAND is an enjoyable treat.	2003-11-08
909306:US	49115690	R1GNIRGZR8OULY	0373273290	339405360	Midnight Run (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1259)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Strong powerful writing	When he breaks out of prison, convicted killer Jack LaCroix has only one goal in mind--clearing his name and taking down the man who framed him for murdering his friend and partner. Unfortunately, the only person who can help him is Landis McAllister. And prosecuting attorney Landis doesn't want to have anything to do with the man who killed her brother. Landis knows that even the best of men can go dirty, and Jack was always willing to walk close to the line. Landis sees things in black and white while Jack is all gray. But how can even Jack think that Landis will help him with his crazy plan?<br />When Jack's lawyer is killed, Jack is the obvious suspect, but Landis knows that Jack was elsewhere. If he's innocent of the lawyer's death, might he also be innocent of the other crimes he's been convicted of? Landis decides to find out the truth--and explore her own dangerous feelings. But Jack knows that the stakes have been escalated. Before, only his own life was at stake. He doesn't mind gambling with his life, but he resists taking a chance with Landis's. Except it is already too late for both of them.<br />Author Linda Castillo writes an action-packed and emotionally complex story as Jack and Landis battle with one another and with mob-leader Cyrus Duke and his minions. A nice twist at the end adds to both the sense of danger and the emotional intensity of the novel. I especially liked the way Castillo integrated her characters' back stories into the plot. Both are damaged, both find the dangers that they face set off all of the emotional defenses that they have built to protect themselves, and both of them must find a way to surmount their pasts if they are to survive the present.<br />MIDNIGHT RUN is a strong effort by a mature and powerful writer.	2003-11-08
910149:US	49115690	RN7T20UGAWF1W	0812544595	161274602	The Two Georges: A Novel of an Alternate America	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent worldbuilding, cute humor	In a world where Geogre Washington travelled to England and addressed his issues with George III, the United States never existed. Instead, a North American Union, consisting of both Canada and the U.S. (except Alaska and Hawaii) remains a part of the globe-encompassing British Empire. That Empire is threatened only by the Russians (still an empire) and the combined French and Spanish (still a Kingdom). America is less heavilly populated (no vast migrations from Italy, Eastern Europe, China, or Germany swelled its population) and technologically behind our own science. But it is also a more peaceful society where guns are rare and where years have gone by since the last Mountie was killed in action.<br />The symbol of the North American Union is the portrait of the Two Georges--Washington and Hannover reconciling their differences. When this painting is stolen, apparently by the terrorist Sons of Liberty organization, Mountie Colonel Thomas Bushell is tasked with tracking it down and returning it to the government--before King Charles III arrives in the new world. Bushell's investigation takes him from California to northwest Canada, to the Pennsylvania coal mines, Boston, and finally Victoria (Washington D.C.). But the portrait and the terrorists who stole it remain ahead of him, almost as if they had been warned of his coming.<br />Authors Richard Dreyfuss and Harry Turtledove create a fascinating alternate history. There was a time when supporters of complete independence from England were few. Compromise would have been possible if George III had been sane and lucky. And without independence, America would never have become the open door for the world's poor and freedom-seeking. The smaller population (with better treated Indians and African-Americans) would have led to fewer scientific advances. Dreyfuss and Turtledove lace their narrative with historical characters including Sir Martin Luther King, now Governor General, Tricky Dick Nixon (a car salesman shot from the grassy knoll) and John F. Kennedy (editor of a radical newspaper and sexual predator), adding humor to their world-building conjecture.<br />Bushell, with his continuing anger over his wife's betrayal and his problems with alcohol abuse makes an interesting character. The mystery, however, was a little too simple to support almost six hundred pages of narrative (in the paperback edition). THE TWO GEORGES is an interesting story, fascinating alternate history worldbuilding, filled with quips of humor and references to movies (especially Casa Blanca) and political history. It isn't the best of Turtledove, but it is certainly an enjoyable read.from the grassy knoll) and John F. Kennedy (editor of a radical newspaper and sexual predator), adding humor to their world-building conjecture. <br />Bushell, with his continuing anger over his wife's betrayal and his problems with alcohol abuse makes an interesting character. The mystery, however, was a little too simple to support almost six hundred pages of narrative (in the paperback edition). THE TWO GEORGES is an interesting story, fascinating alternate history worldbuilding, filled with quips of humor and references to movies (especially Casa Blanca) and political history. It isn't the best of Turtledove, but it is certainly an enjoyable read.	2003-11-07
912966:US	49115690	R1UCXRM7LWQH6E	0312319517	604432126	Avenger	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent book by a master	Most days, Calvin Dexter is a lawyer with the odd hobby of running triathlons. But for the right price and the right cause, the fifty-something Viet Nam veteran becomes 'the avenger,' a man who will bring criminals from around the world back to the U.S. for justice. And the family of Ricky Colenso needs justice. Their darling son took off the summer before he started in college to serve as a humanitarian volunteer in Bosnia. The murderer, head of a Serb militia, has vanished, along with the billions of dollars he looted from the former Yugoslav economy. It's the Avenger's job to track the killer down and bring him to America where he can be tried for his crimes.<br />Tracking down a billionaire killer would be a tough job for anyone, even a survivor of the tunnel warfare in Viet Nam. But the killer has more protection than the private army, the bribed government of the South-American country where he hides, and the sharks that surround his isolated compound. The CIA has identified him as a part of its war on terrorism and will do anything to protect him. If that means selling out the Avenger, the CIA agents consider it cheap at the price. Because their target is nothing less than Osama Ben Laden. And in the war on terrorism, even in the last days before 9/11, no sacrifice is too great if it advances the cause.<br />Author Frederick Forsyth is a longtime master of the adventure suspense novel and AVENGER is a welcome addition to the canon. Calvin Dexter makes an interesting and sympathetic hero. With his own personal losses (his daughter was kidnapped and murdered in the white slave trade), Dexter is believable. His Viet Nam experience and the wealth of contacts he made while a lawyer for New York's poor and immigrant population both make him convincing despite his eligibility for membership in the American Association of Retired People. Forsyth is a master of presenting the reader with an ethical dilemma. In his masterpiece, THE DAY OF THE JACKAL, he engages our sympathies with an amoral killer. Here, Forsyth uses the events of 9/11 to make the CIA agent's position sympathetic even as we cheer Dexter on in his attempts to bring an evil man to justice.ympathies with an amoral killer. Here, Forsyth uses the events of 9/11 to make the CIA agent's position sympathetic even as we cheer Dexter on in his attempts to bring an evil man to justice.	2003-11-05
916381:US	49115690	R3VV2AC40BUJXA	0060529164	501360816	To the Bone	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engaging, fast-paced medical suspense story	Emergency room Doctor Carroll Monks is disturbed when a beautiful woman fails to respond to his treatment. Healthy young women shouldn't die--and when he notices strange bruisings, he orders powerful and non-standard treatment. The treatment fails and Monks is left wondering if he failed, or if someone else was responsible for Eden Hale's death. Because Eden was recovering from breast implant surgery, there is the possibility of complications and Dr. D'Anton, plastic surgeon to the beautiful people, is an obvious suspect. After all, how did a woman like Eden even afford D'Anton's price?<br />In this fast-paced story, author Neil McMahon introduces a string of suspects. The plastic surgeon, his sculpter-wife who once had an affair with Eden, the beautiful assistant, and the tough and secretive nurse all have possibilities. But as Monks and his friend, private detective Larrabee, investigate, they discover that D'Anton has been associated with other bizarre events and even a missing girl. Could Eden's death be only the tip of an obscene nightmare? McMahon occasionally steps into the point-of-view of a serial killer, indicating that Monks is onto something larger and more dangerous than he imagines.<br />Monks makes an interesting character with his woman troubles, his problems with excess drinking (not the man I'd want working on me in an emergency room), and his obsession for discovering the truth. Playing to society's strangely ambiguous feelings about doctors who create beauty, McMahon maintains the suspense and keeps the pages turning.	2003-11-02
916475:US	49115690	R1EEEHNTLZ7DZW	0811841863	574475099	Shell Games:  A John Marquez Crime Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Compelling story of smuggling and assassination	When he see the bodies of the murdered poachers, California Fish and Game Lieutenant John Marquez can't help notice the resemblance to a torture and assassination technique he ran into while still with U.S. DEA. Everyone knows the mysterious killer is Marquez's bugaboo, but that doesn't mean that he's wrong this time. Using a web of informants every bit as noxious as the men they are informing on, Marquez and his small team of covert Fish and Game investigators try to get to the bottom of the mystery--and discover who is raiding the last of California's once vast abalone reserves. When it looks like he's getting close, however, the F.B.I. steps in and forces him to back off.<br />Marquez's home life is a wreck. His wife has separated from him and his stepdaughter has developed an eating disorder. His department is being crimped by California's budget crisis, and one of his best officers has announced that she's pregnant. For Marquez, this is the worst time for a big case, especially a case that puts him in conflict with the FBI and where his best lead is an ex-Navy Seal who may be the killer.<br />In his first novel, author Kirk Russell spins an intriguing tale of death and seafood. Because smuggling endangered species has become big business, even attracting drug smugglers and the criminal organizations that grow from the illegal and profitable. Russell's prose is dense but engaging, delving into Marquez's character and into the details of smuggling and game enforcement.<br />It's exciting to discover a new mystery talent and Kirk Russell is that. Check this one out and then keep an eye open for any more novels by Russell.	2003-11-02
920823:US	49115690	R1R4ZR7XS3Y9KY	0758200404	123691361	Wearing Black to the White Party: Doing This Circuit Can Be a Real Killer...	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Great concept, mixed execution	Robert and Michael head from New York to Palm Springs, California, to attend the gay party of the year. According to its organizer and sometime boyfriend to Michael, Rex, the Red Party will be big--even bigger than the annual White Party which has been the class act of gay America up until then. Of course, throwing such a party creates waves--and these include extortion notes. As Michael and Robert hang out with Rex, the threats become terribly real and Rex is nearly killed. Calling on his lesbian friend Monette, Robert decides to investigate. Michael would investigate too, except he is too caught up in the need to find frequent and kinky sex.<br />WEARING BLACK TO THE WHITE PARTY has all of the elements of a fun mystery--odd characters as both suspects and protagonists, a (for most of us) strange but interesting environment in which the action takes place, and plenty of fast dialogue. As a result, I really wanted to love this book. I found, however, that I couldn't get into the characters. I wasn't sure what was motivating Robert to push the investigation, why he stayed friends with Michael who is obviously a complete narcisisst, and what the point of the huge highway dildo is.<br />Author David Stukas intended to write a funny book and WEARING BLACK does include some good lines and some cute moments. The huge dildo in the road and some of the dialogue between Michael and Robert stands out as quite good. For me, the humor didn't really seem integral to the story, however. What the dildo had to do with anything I'm not sure.<br />WEARING BLACK is interesting and shows a lot of potential. I'll look forward to the next book in this series to see if Stukas can put the potential together and deliver a really funny mystery with really involving characters that I can care about.	2003-10-30
921962:US	49115690	R141A64EN93JAA	0385337477	168107941	Lord John and the Private Matter	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Well written with good historical details	When he happens to notice a syphilis sore on his prospective cousin-in-law's member, Lord John Grey faces a problem. First, he shouldn't have been looking. Second, breaking the engagement threatens to ruin his young cousin's reputation. And third, Lord Grey has other issues to deal with--like finding whether one of his sergeants was, in fact, a spy for the French. Somehow he's got to figure out a solution to the spying issue and save his cousin from a dreadful fate--all before his regiment is transferred to India or France or wherever it will next be assigned during the seven-years war then raging between Britain and France.<br />Author Diana Gabaldon is best known for her huge time-travel/romantic adventures. Lord John appears in the OUTLANDER universe, but this book is completely historical. It's also a relatively short novel (300 pages in the hardback issue) that Gabaldon claims she wrote intending for it to be a short story. In some ways, Gabaldon is correct. LORD JOHN could use a bit more action. Still, Gabaldon's writing engages the reader and her discussions of 18th century British whorehouses, homosexuality (there was a reason Lord John was checking out Trevelyan's member) and disease are all fascinating. Fans of historical fiction will appreciate the details of Gabaldon's research and the skillful and unobtrusive way she weaves it into her plot.<br />I would have preferred to see a bit more deeply into Lord John Grey's character. His secret homosexuality certainly would have created problems for him during that period. Gabaldon choses to tread lightly here, keeping the attention on the mystery rather than on the characters. I did appreciate the way she presented Trevelyan, who seemed a more troubled but possibly more thoughtful foil to the protagonist, Lord John.	2003-10-29
922958:US	49115690	RZWTJ31R0K4X7	0312290497	35305259	The Last Gondola: A Mystery of Venice	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting tale of Venice	Urbino Macintyre has become obsessed with the idea of writing a biography of a reclusive American living in Venice. His obsession has led to strange dreams about fire and destruction, but hasn't led to much else--until suddenly the recluse invites Urbino to visit him in his Venitian Plazio. What Urbino finds is a strangely deteriorating mansion, a strangely deteriorating man, and a mute servant with burned arms. A feeling of haunting surrounds the ancient home and Urbino feels that he is being made the butt of some monstrous plot, although he can't figure out the object.<br />Urbino's other tasks, including the discovery of who has stolen his friend, the Countessa's clothing, take second place to unravelling the mystery of Urbino's fellow American in Venice.<br />Author Edward Sklepowich writes knowingly of Venice--both the current (but not modern) city, and the city described by poets and philosophers of the ages. Indeed, much of the pleasure of THE LAST GONDOLA comes not from the mystery, but from the atmosphere of the city, of culture and secret knowledge. Hints of lost poems by Byron add to the feeling of sensation that fill this story. Mystery fans may grow impatient with the slow pace at which the mystery evolves, the strange coincidences that are contorted to make the story, and with Urbino's apparent willingness to leave all morals behind in pursuit of his personal goals, however.<br />THE LAST GONDOLA is a strange and interesting story. Readers with a deep interest in the fascinating city of Venice will find that the novel rewards their reading.	2003-10-28
925413:US	49115690	R3J6CJG6QBBH1G	0446532401	144241916	Midnight Harvest (The chronicles of Saint-Germain)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Interesting history, too much repetition	Four thousand year-old vampire Ferenc Ragoczy, Count of Saint-Germaine flees Spain at the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. Despite his largely successful attempts to mislead those researching him, the Spanish send an assassin after him, tracking him across multiple countries into the United States. Saint-Germaine ends up in San Francisco where a longtime lover welcomes him and near where his investments in California winelands are finally beginning to pay off. Although depression-era United States is not torn by civil war as is Spain, right-wing hate groups threaten Saint-Germaine's Italian partner in the wine business. Somehow, Saint-Germaine must protect both himself and his friends from both assassins and American facists.<br />Author Chelsea Quinn Yarbro does a fine job conveying a sexy and sophisticated vampire who uses love rather than violence ot gain willing providers to his blood-need. Saint-Germaine's wealth and generosity make him both sexy and a good friend. His four thousand years of life give him a broad range of experiences to draw upon. Together with his vampire ability to stave off the true-death, he is a formidable opponent to the Spanish and American facists.<br />For the most part, Yarbro's research rings true--from the cars to the movies to the political climate of depression-era America. A few errors stand out--discussions of Molotov Cocktails before this term came into use, description of the load of a shotgun as 'grapeshot' which actually consists of grape-sized balls fired from a cannon, but these can be largely overlooked. More seriously, however, Yarbro choses to slow down the action in her story with long conversations where a few points are discussed ad nauseum. MIDNIGHT HARVEST is interesting. This Spanish Civil War/American Depression historical context, the four-thousand year-old vampire with his two-thousand year-old servant, and the assassination plot are all fascinating. Unfortunately, Yarbro's heavyhanded dialogue and extensive repetition detract from the pleasure.e repetition detract from the pleasure.	2003-10-26
928731:US	49115690	R3T16BK37I56PM	0312876904	943424422	Hybrids (Neanderthal Parallax)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Weak characters detract from fascinating scenario	Geneticist Mary Vaughan has fallen in love with neanderthal Ponter Boddit--who comes from an alternate reality where neanderthals rather than our own breed of homo sapien prevailed. The neanderthal version of earth is clean, free of polution and overpopulation, and filled with happy and smart neanderthals--especially smart due to a genetic improvement program that has systematically weeded out troublesome or less intelligent members of the society. For a while it looks like the only fly in the ointment is the fact that neanderthals don't really spend a lot of time with male-female bonding. Despite Mary's wishes, Ponter spends most of every month with his male lover--as do all neanderthal men.<br />Although neanderthals and our version of humanity are biologically close, they cannot interbreed--without help. But Mary comes up with the idea of using technology to help. Fortunately there is a recently invented neanderthal machine that will do that. Unfortunately, this machine can also do a lot more--like create the ultimate super-biological weapon.<br />Author Robert J. Sawyer creates an interesting set of worlds. Both the genetic and anthropological bases of HYBRIDS are convincing and feel real. From a plot and character perspective, however, HYBRIDS is somewhat disappointing. As a rape survivor and the first Earth-human woman to enter into a relationship with a neanderthal, Mary should be interesting. Instead, her obsession with religion, her whining about not being with Ponter during the periods he spends with his male mate, and her lack of any real motivation and drive make her uninvolving. Only in the last fifty pages does the plot really spring into action with a threat at a second genocide of the neanderthal people--a threat that Mary discovers by complete chance.<br />HYBRIDS is the thrid book in a series about the earth-human/neanderthal reconnection. My guess is that Sawyer had said everything he wanted to say in the first two.	2003-10-23
930275:US	49115690	R229KWLBUWNHB7	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	After slow start, Paladin really delivers	At 40, Royina Ista feels trapped by her caring relatives. With her husband and parents dead, she decides on a fake pilgrimage as a way of escaping their smothering care. What begins as a merry voyage quickly becomes dangerous. A plague of demons has overrun Chalion. The demons are a form of elemental that gain knowledge from their hosts and return power. But the power comes at a cost--ultimately leading to the destruction of the host's soul. And in Chalion, the soul is very important because the gods (they worship 4+1 gods) are quite real, quite present, and quite powerful. But even the gods can only work through people and one person they decide on is Ista. And the god that favors Ista most is the 'bastard,' the one god outside the normal temple system. A god denied by Chalion's neighbors.<br />When enemy cavalry captures Ista, PALADIN OF SOULS picks up the pace and its emotional wallop. Ista is an unwilling saint, but although people can deny the gods, they do so only at a price. Still, even the gods' powers seem inadequate to deal with the real challenges ahead of her. How, exactly, does she safely send the soul of a man to the appropriate god when that man has already been dead for months?<br />Author Lois McMaster Bujold writes a powerful and emotional story. PALADIN OF SOULS is a mature work by one of the best SF authors writing today. I found first half of the book a little slow and Ista initially difficult to like. Once Bujold got through her setup and cranked the story into overdrive, however, the adventure, emotional intensity, and characters were compelling, real, and vivid. Fantasy fans will also find Bujold's world-building to be fascinating. The gods, religions, cultural differences among people, and the magical system are all fully developed and a joy to read.	2003-10-22
930837:US	49115690	R1YRM7XXUP141F	0345458915	730478278	The Sinner	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting and emotionally deep	Dr. Maura Isles sees a lot of death--the cops even called her Queen of the Dead. Still, the two nuns, one murdered, the other near death, are a little much to take. When she discovers that the younger nun had recently given birth, the mystery seems largely solved. But deeper currents run through the mystery and soon the feds bring in evidence connecting this and other murders to a massacre that took place in distant India. Isles pushes herself to continue the investigation, to find the possible connection. What she finds is more damaging than she could have imagined. In a strange way, even Isles becomes a victim.<br />Detective Jane Rizzoli suspects that she may be pregnant as a result of a brief affair with a fed. The autopsy on the dead nun's baby pushes her to the limit. But she swears she'll find out the truth. The truths she finds, however, are about something deeper than simply crime.<br />Author Tess Gerritsen writes an emotionally compelling and exciting adventure. Both Isles and Rizzoli are sympathetic characters caught up in the aftereffects of terrible crimes and in their own emotional nightmares. Each has built a protective shell, but the mystery that they uncover together shreds those shells, leaving them exposed to a world more terrible than even they had wanted to believe. Gerritsen's highly professional writing and her obvious technical understanding of the medical procedures adds to the reader's enjoyment of this exciting story.<br />A prologue gives the reader more information than the protagonists enjoy about the motives behind the mystery, I'm not sure this was necessary or helpful, but it does add a different type of suspense to the story as we wonder how Isles and Rizzoli will be able to trace the murders back to their cause. THE SINNER is an interesting and emotionally satisfying story. Once I started it, I found I couldn't do anything else until I'd finished it.	2003-10-22
934509:US	49115690	R19VJY9LOKVW3Q	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Funny and thought provoking. Excellent	Borogravia has declared war on all of its neighbors, depopulated its land, and its last army is now bottled up and waiting to starve. Even mighty Ankh-Morpork has been drawn in when Borogravia's god declares the Ankh-Morpork telegraph system an abomination (just about everything, from stones to the color blue have been declared abominations by Borogravia's god). Worse for Borogravia's hopes of winning, Ankh-Morpork has sent Lord Vimes to oversee its operations. But Borogravia isn't prepared to give up. It's recruiters are scouring the country for anyone to fill the uniform and be thrown into service. So, when a woman, a vampire, an igor, a woman who talks to the supposedly long-dead Duchess, and a troll try to enlist, Sergeant Jackrum signs them up.<br />Jackrum's company is about the most unlikely group of heros ever to enlist, but Borogravia doesn't really need heros--heros have gotten them into the problems they have. Instead they need practical. And Jackrum and his group are exactly that--and something that Vimes sees as an opportunity to solve some of his problems as well. Through a series of misadventures and very good reporting, Jackrum's group become famous, get a chance to kick a prince in the uh, socks, and generally change the history of Discworld.<br />Author Terry Pratchett delivers a wonderfully funny, thoughtful, and timely story. MONSTROUS REGIMENT combines laugh-out-loud humor with a thoughtful commentary on war and the human condition (with human being defined broadly, of course). If you aren't already a Pratchett fan, MONSTROUS REGIMENT will make you one. If you are, you're probably already looking for an excuse to sit down and read it. Well, don't wait any longer, soldier. Get it done.	2003-10-19
934960:US	49115690	R2RRE8DOHJ5WWN	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Sexy, funny, and over the top	Genevieve Terrence has decided on her future husband--Nick Brogan. Nick has a few bad habits, like inviting secretaries to overnight meetings and seducing them, but she knows he had a tough childhood and is certain she can save him. Until Nick invites Genevieve on one of his trips and strands her on a desert island with no one but genius nerd Jackson (Jack) Farley to keep her company Together the two try to find some way to stay alive and Genevieve starts to think that Jack looks better than she's ever noticed before. Of course he still is a nerd and he's still the kind of guy who would get involved in a software project and forget his girlfriend's birthday, but that just means they don't have a future, not that they can't have a present.<br />Author Vicki Lewis Thompson writes a funny and sexy story of cast-aways with six condoms and big ideas. The characters are way over the top--Genevieve's Tennessee hick-talk is not exactly believable, but then again, nothing in this story is meant to be believable--the story of Elvis's underwear should set any reader straight on that right away. Instead, Thompson delivers a pure fantasy of a self-dressed Cinderella, and a prince of a guy who desperately needs fashion advice but who looks completely wonderful in the nude.<br />It may not be great literature, but NERD IN SHINING ARMOR is a charming reminder to look closely at the frogs you kiss--and to make sure that the nerd you reject isn't really a prince of a guy.	2003-10-19
936117:US	49115690	R3NQQYCAB4PNTI	0345456521	233278468	No Graves as Yet: A Novel of World War I, 1st Edition	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Well written mystery about a fascinating historical period	In the last days before the outbreak of World War I, England lives in denial. Surely England will not be driven into a war about an Austrian assassination. Surely the bankers will prevent a war that could destroy civilization and be bad for business. Some, though, are taking more active steps--steps designed to ensure the peace no matter what the cost. When John Reavley gets his hands on a secret document that, according to him, would destroy all English honor, he contacts his son in British Intelligence and sets off to meet him. But John and his wife Alys are killed in an apparent accident before they arrive. Sons Mathew and Joseph are left with the mystery of what happened to their parents, what happened to the document, and what secret could really be so destructive to the world.<br />Joseph returns to his job as a lecturer at Cambridge University where one of his students is found dead--murdered in his room. Now Joseph has two mysteries to investigate. Oddly, however, the two seem connected. To Joseph, the dead student had seemed a bright beacon for the future, but as he digs deeper, he learns that Sebastian might have stooped to blackmail, intentional cruelty, and stealing another student's girlfriend. Any of those could justify murder, but could they explain the apparently cold-blooded death?<br />Author Anne Perry's writing evokes an era when the British class system was still in flower, yet when the world is at the cusp of launching into one of the most destructive wars of all time. Her strong narrative style involves the reader, making us care about the characters, especially Joseph, and his attempts to reconcile his faith with the evil that happens. Perry relies a bit too heavily on coincidence and never explains how John Reavley ended up with such a critical document, but most readers will be willing to overlook these flaws due to the interesting picture of the past that Perry delivers.	2003-10-17
938124:US	49115690	R2AI23T9H6ZBDC	0312890559	771783313	In Legend Born	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Rich and complex world building	When he fled Sileria nine years before, Tansen had been a young man. Now he is a trained warrior. But he lacks a cause, something worth fighting for. Only when he finds the rebel Josarian does he see a chance to achieve his destiny. Josarian has a cause--freedom for Sileria after a thousand years of occupation. It's a goal that Tansen couldn't even have conceived on his own, but once he's been shown the goal, he is an expert on following through. As long as Josarian keeps the faith and doesn't do anything stupid like throwing himself into a volcano to prove that he is, in fact, the prophesied warrior.<br />Author Laura Resnick builds a wonderful, complex, and sophisticated world of magic, culture, and betrayal. Water Lords rule through fear and assassination as well as powerful magic. Guardians preserve fire magics despite centuries of oppression. A pre-human race huddles in the sewers and caves beneath the capitol city, fearful that whatever humans win, they will lose. Feuds tear at this ancient island, keeping the people from uniting against their oppressive occupiers. Even within the rebellion, factions squabble over goals, methods, and the ultimate winner.<br />Tansen is a fine character, tormented by the decisions that led him to fear Sileria in the first place (betraying an earlier rebellion and murdering the man who had become his father). The Elelar, who would do anything to free her people, is another carefully crafted and three-dimensional figure.<br />But it's the world-building rather than the characters that make IN LEGEND BORN most interesting. Readers who enjoy complex magic systems, sophisticated societies, and complex moral issues will find a lot to enjoy in this novel.	2003-10-16
942380:US	49115690	R2RVMFLDP9IOQ1	0312873883	102897670	Goddess of the Ice Realm (Lord of the Isles)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Pretty good--especially the talking axe	Prince Garrick and his in-head partner Carus head for Carcosa for Garrick's coronation, but an evil force threatens Garrick and his entire world. Working through magic, and through the local priests, something threatens Garrick's life directly, and then separates him from his trusted friends. Cashel, with his quarterstaff is teleported to a world where a strange entity threatens everything. Sharina is pulled into a fairy-tale world where a talking axe warns evil trolls of her presence, but then welcomes her as a killing partner. Ilna and the ex-pirate Chalcus are sent to deal with a problem merchants have been having, only to find the same evil magic is working its way in Garrick's kingdom.<br />Each of the three major sub-plots works. Although Cashel is pretty one-dimensional as a character (he hits bad things with his quarterstaff and if that doesn't work, he hits them harder), he's pretty likable as a heroic type and his strategy works. Ilna is more complex, and shows important character development. Sharina's quest with her friend the axe is probably the most interesting of the three with the axe, Beard, being the most likable and memorable character in the story. In contrast, Garrick's own adventures serve mainly as a resting point. I certainly found myself wanting to get back to where the real action was.<br />Author David Drake is best known for his military SF, but he does a better than average job in epic fantasy. Once we get away from Garrick and into the three subplots, GODDESS OF THE ICE REALM really picks up its pace and delivers a diet of action, mayhem, and old-fashioned magic.	2003-10-13
944908:US	49115690	RAKCI0HM95GS	0743435907	155774235	Grimmer Than Hell	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thought-provoking military stories	In a series of short stories, author David Drake explores the dark side of war and a dystopic future. Drake is a Viet Nam veteran and that experience gives his stories a gritty realism that shows through even in the more space-opera stories of 'the Fleet.' In his world, battles never go well, the enemy doesn't miss all the time, and commanding generals, admirals, back-room intelligence, and civilian 'suits' don't have a clue what they're asking for.<br />GRIMMER THAN HELL is an apt title for this set of dark stories. Whether set in the futuristic universe of the Fleet, the monitored and dying world of Lacey, or even the wars of Hell itself, Drake chooses to show humanity at its best and worst--in deadly action.<br />If you're looking for a light and upbeat read, stay well away from GRIMMER THAN HELL. But in a world where politicians continue to order soldiers into harms way, GRIMMER is a brutal and useful reminder that harms way can be very harmful indeed--not just for the physical violence that warfare brings, but also for the emotional damage done to soldiers and, at a more hidden level, to those sending young warriors into battle. GRIMMER delivers a few enjoyable twists, a couple of intriguing characters in Captain (Major) Kowacs and Jed Lacey. If you're looking for the kind of SF that makes you think, GRIMMER is a great choice.	2003-10-10
946205:US	49115690	R1AQWUODM3LRI6	0373169922	962302690	C.E.O. & The Cookie Queen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sexy fun story	When his baking company gets into trouble with the nutrition police, C.E.O. Greg Rafferty decides that the best defense is to show that cookies are a critical part of being an American. To do this, though, he needs a spokesperson. Since his company's top brand is that based on recipies by Carole Jacks, it seems that she would be the perfect spokesperson. So Greg heads from Chicago to Ranger Springs, Texas to meet the low profile genius behind the top cookies. He's expecting something between Betty Crocker and Julia Child. Instead, he finds a beautiful blonde single mom who is insistent on her privacy and anything but willing to go along with what he knows is essential to save his company. Worst, Greg's hormones spring into instant action. He wants Carole, and for a lot more than just his corporatre spokesman.<br />Ten years ago, Carole had run off, gotten married and pregnant, only to find that her husband wanted his career, his drugs, and his alcohol more than he wanted a wife and child. She returned home to Ranger Springs determined to protect her daughter from her mistakes. Although she can't deny the sexual attraction that Greg exudes, becoming corporate spokesman is a nightmare to her, but Greg won't take no for an answer. Without her understanding quite how he is doing it, Greg moves into her life--he even buys her daughter's prize steer when he sees how miserable Jennifer is about the upcoming barbeque where that steer is scheduled to become guest of honor.<br />Greg is almost happy when Carole turns him down--it gives him a chance to woo her without the complexities of a employee relationship, but he can't understand her determination to keep herself from the public eye. She is exactly what his company needs and Greg can't think of any other alternative to saving the company.<br />Author Victoria Chancellor continues her popular Ranger Springs series with a charming story of love and cookies. Carole earns reader respect as her protectiveness for her daughter wars with her growing love for the man who wants to make her change her entire life. Chancellor stitches a tapestry of family ties and friendships that enrichen her story even as they give fans a chance to reacquaint themselves with favorite characters from earlier stories.ter wars with her growing love for the man who wants to make her change her entire life. Chancellor stitches a tapestry of family ties and friendships that enrichen her story even as they give fans a chance to reacquaint themselves with favorite characters from earlier stories.	2003-10-09
947426:US	49115690	RWU70I9OV66PP	038097844X	265821531	The Body in the Lighthouse: A Faith Fairchild Mystery (Faith Fairchild Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Mostly pleasant slow-moving story	Faith Fairchild arrives in Sampere Island, Maine only to find that the summer house is incomplete, that a Romeo and Juliet scenerio is being carried out in the town even as villagers rehearse the play, and that eco-terrorists are battling developers for the future of this once pristine, but now highly priced town. Faith involves herself with the play and suffers mixed feelings about the eco-terrorists. While she agrees that huge mansions mar the beauty of the island and also cut off beaches from the ordinary citizens, surely fires and destruction are not the way to achieve them. When she stumbles across a body near the abandoned lighthouse, though, things start looking serious. Although the death is certainly accidental--isn't it?<br />Author Katherine Hall Page immerses the reader in the details of Faith's life--her cooking, caring for her two children, and her joy in discovering paint chips at Home Depot. The story moves forward at an unhurried pace, as Faith uses her connections to the Island's grapevine to discover the secrets so many Islanders hide.<br />THE BODY IN THE LIGHTHOUSE is a short quick read. It didn't grip me, and I found Faith to be not especially interesting as a character, but Page's writing is solid and her insights into a changing era on an island transitioning from fishing to resort.	2003-10-08
948273:US	49115690	R1PY5Y0VHUV436	0312873980	858915453	Spirits in the Wires	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Charming urban fantasy	When a book reviewer blackmails a hacker into sending a computer virus into the wordwood website, things get ugly. Because wordwood left the simple world of computing long before and migrated into the spirit workd. A virus there is a lot more serious, and hundreds of people getting sucked into their computers is just the start of the problems.<br />When his girlfriend is one of those sucked in, Christy Riddell resolves to go after her--even if it means entering into the spirit world. Of course he's never actually been in the spirit world and isn't even sure he believes in it, but he's willing to do whatever it takes to save her. Gathering a group of friends and questionable allies, he sets off. But things have gone downhill in wordwood and its problems are starting to spread even more widely. If he and his band don't succeed, the problems may become a lot more serious than just a few missing persons.<br />Author Charles de Lint brings new life to the concept of merging the computer and fantasy world. The fairy people aren't all involved with computers, but many shadows are given strength by people's belief in them and lots of people believe what computers tell them. de Lint's writing is lyrical, engaging the reader and giving the story a tang of its own. The power of this novel comes not from the conclusions, although there are some charming twists there as well, but from the progression through adventure, from de Lint's descriptions and concepts, and from the way he paints his story rather than simply telling it.<br />SPIRITS IN THE WIRES takes a fairly standard concept and really breaths light into it. de Lint fans will be happy to see many familiar characters return, as well as enjoy meeting some of the new characters and concepts that de Lint brings to the light. It's a charming story. Well done.	2003-10-08
950596:US	49115690	R1VRHYPL0E2ZZE	0451457803	201826021	On the Oceans of Eternity	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Marine training prevails against bronze age barbarians	The twentieth century residents of Nantucket, cast back into the bronze age, have the advantage of their technology and command structures, but those advantages are no longer unique. Walker, a renegade, has set himself up as King over Greece and has besieged Troy. His ally, Isketerol, controls Spain and the straits of Gibralter restricting Nantucket's ability to send aid to their allies--Babylon. And Walker's schemes take in Egypt too, hoping to catch Babylon from two sides.<br />Fortunately, thanks to a modern U.S. marine training regime, and to incredible luck, the Nantucketers are impossible to defeat in a battle. Friendly bullets fly true and smash great holes in enemy lines. Enemy gunshot is pathetic, killing a few to give our heros a chance to grieve, but not doing significant military damage. Even Walker's few victories are empty as the Nantucketers sucker him deeper into empty territory.<br />ON THE OCEANS OF ETERNITY is the third in S. M. Stirling's alternate history series about the republic of Nantucket. By now, ten years after the 'event,' Nantucket has pretty well melded its 20th century technology with the industrial capabilities of the bronze age world. The scenes set in Nantucket, therefore, lose some of the immediacy and interest that post-event survival tactics held. In ON THE OCEANS OF ETERNITY, it is the non-Nantucket kingdoms that are most interesting. Isketerol's attempts to balance his people's traditions with the new technology, and Walker's effort to overcome the entire Island's technological advantage with speed and hard work are the highlights of the novel.<br />Stirling follows alternate history convention by running multiple sub-plots simultaneously--Chief Cofflin in Nantucket, Commodore Marion Alston-Kurlelo and her lover, Swindapa with the Nantucket fleet, Walker, Isketerol, and Ranger Peter Giernas in California. Some of these stories are interesting. Others do little to advance the plot or demonstrate the clash of civilizations that make alternate history so interesting.<br />I loved ISLAND IN THE SEA OF TIME--the first book in this series but I think that Stirling would have served himself and his readers better if he'd shortened the sequel to one book instead of two, created more suspense, and really gotten into what technologies made the difference.at make alternate history so interesting. <br />I loved ISLAND IN THE SEA OF TIME--the first book in this series but I think that Stirling would have served himself and his readers better if he'd shortened the sequel to one book instead of two, created more suspense, and really gotten into what technologies made the difference.	2003-10-06
953122:US	49115690	R2UEBXUD5EV0PG	0743476239	324703298	Nervous: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Two women in one body--innocence and experience	Jonquinette Pierce has never had a boyfriend, never made love, never even had strong friendships with other women, but her body has. The weekdays belong to Jonquinette--weekends and nights, to Jude. Jude emerged in second grade, when Jonquinette was being picked on by other girls. Jude wasn't afraid to break the rules, to use violence to protect her fellow self. And when Jonquinette's fears drive her from sex, Jude takes over that part of her existance as well. But now, Jonquinette is seeking psychiatric help--and Jude is threatened. Will she destroy their common body in her efforts to fight back, or will she, perhaps, take over completely?<br />Author Zane combines strong erotica with a well-thought-out discussion of multiple personality disorder. Jude is hot, using sex for pleasure, empowerment, and self-destructiveness simultaneously. Jonquinette is inexperienced when it comes to sex, but is definitely interested, especially when a hunk moves into her condo complex. Zane also deals with African-American culture and the relationship between blacks and whites in America, but weaves this theme into her story seamlessly.<br />Developing multiple personalities is a reaction to extreme stress. Jonquinette will have to come to terms with her past if she is ever to re-integrate her personality. Jude's protectiveness is on full force. She's fighting to protect Jonquinette and herself, even if it kills both of them. Over the course of the story, Jude becomes more and more destructive attempting to ruin Jonquinette's work environment, her budding romance, and her relationship with both of her parents. Even Jude cannot understand what she fears most--until both sides of this woman must confront it.<br />Zane's writing is straightforward and approachable, with explicit language that may offend some readers. Her discussion of MPD is sympathetic and psychologically sound. I thought Jonquinette moved into a sexual relationship with Mason without as many problems as I would expect in a conflicted character, but the healthy bonding between Jonquinette and Mason, contrasted with Jude's unhealthy obsession with sex, created a strong contrast.<br />NERVOUS begins with a short story Zane wrote for an earlier collection--a story that expresses elements of MPD and inspired, but is not quite that of Jonquinette and Jude. The dichotomies between good-girl/bad-girl, angel/whore, innocence/experience are neatly laid out with the device of multiple persons in a single body.pect in a conflicted character, but the healthy bonding between Jonquinette and Mason, contrasted with Jude's unhealthy obsession with sex, created a strong contrast. <br />NERVOUS begins with a short story Zane wrote for an earlier collection--a story that expresses elements of MPD and inspired, but is not quite that of Jonquinette and Jude. The dichotomies between good-girl/bad-girl, angel/whore, innocence/experience are neatly laid out with the device of multiple persons in a single body.	2003-10-04
954842:US	49115690	R3ADMA9FU5I9WD	0451457439	791568967	Against the Tide of Years	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Weaker middle book in great series	Inexplicably cast back into the Bronze Age, the New England island of Nantucket is attempting to preserve modern technology and democratic traditions, but it isn't easy. Although Nantucket and its proto-British allies defeated the renegade Walker in his first attempt to set up a kingdom of his own, Walker has escapted to Myceanian Greece where he is hobnobbing with Agamemnon and the wily Odysseus. His ally in Phoenecian Spain, is also adapting modern technology and poses a threat to the Island republic. New allies are critical and the Island turns to Babylon. After battling the Assyrians, the epic battle heads toward modern-Turkey--toward Troy.<br />In the meantime, back in North America, Nantucket authorizes a Lewis and Clark-like exploration of the largely depopulated continent, and Nantucket engineers experiment with breech-loading rifles to replace the flintlocks that gave them initial advantage over their opponents.<br />AGAINST THE TIDE OF YEARS is the second book in a trilogy following the exploits of the residents of Nantucket. No longer fighting for their lves on a daily basis, Nantucket has used its technology to carve out a protectorate. Unlike Walker, who provides technoogy broadly to his people, Nantucket hoards its technological advantage using 'locals' as spear-catchers for the most part, with a stiffening of regular troops behind them.<br />A lot that made the first book in the series so powerful is lacking by the timeframe in this second novel. The island is rich, has adapted much of its technology to available resources, and is able to use all of its thousands of residents to further its military and economic goals. Walker, with his handful of renegades, becomes more admirable than an enemy. I sense that author S. M. Stirling has ambiguous feelings about Walker himself. Although his relationship with the sadistic Alice Hong and his tendency to rape and enslave keep him on the evil side, the man is spreading technology that Nantucket hoards, is developing close friendships with the locals (beyond the marriage to local nobility-friendships that seem Nantucket's only way of going local), and is honorable in his own way. Indeed, AGAINST THE TIDE OF YEARS comes alive largely when Walker is on the stage.<br />Middle books are hard, and it would be hard to write a sequel to the powerful ISLAND. With plenty of action, a number of characters familiar to everyone who's ever read Homer, and well researched and detailed technology introduction, AGAINST THE TIDE OF YEARS is certainly worth reading.eveloping close friendships with the locals (beyond the marriage to local nobility-friendships that seem Nantucket's only way of going local), and is honorable in his own way. Indeed, AGAINST THE TIDE OF YEARS comes alive largely when Walker is on the stage. <br />Middle books are hard, and it would be hard to write a sequel to the powerful ISLAND. With plenty of action, a number of characters familiar to everyone who's ever read Homer, and well researched and detailed technology introduction, AGAINST THE TIDE OF YEARS is certainly worth reading.	2003-10-02
956881:US	49115690	R31STDHJE8TXHT	0892966777	486661480	Death of a Village (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 19)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining story of Scottish rural police	Scottish police constable Hamish Macbeth likes his life and dreads the idea of a promotion. If only he could get his love-life under control, he thinks things would be about perfect. But Hamish can't help offending pretty reporter Elspeth Grant and can't get over being abandoned by his ex-fiance. Besides, his dog can't stand the idea of a woman moving in with him. Instead, Hamish solves mysteries. Even in the Scottish Highlands, crime does take place--including insurance fraud and spousal abuse. But Hamish's police instincts are most intrigued by a small village which seems to have no crime at all--and be suffering from a religious revival. Something odd is happening and the always taciturn residents are being even more closed-mouthed than usual.<br />The rest of the police force is hopeless and Hamish ends up being a one-man crime buster, assisted by the beautiful Elspeth and a pair of aging sleuths.<br />Author M. C. Beaton creates a charming character in Hamish Macbeth and a properly cozy world of small crimes and mostly cheery people with deep Scottish accents and deep Scottish accents. Hamish can be annoying--both to Elspeth and the reader--by his judgemental attitude and his thoughtlessness to Elspeth's feelings, but Beaton's stories are strongly written and intriguing.<br />In DEATH OF A VILLAGE, more than in some of the other Macbeth stories, Hamish seems to be going through the motions--his emotions don't feel quite real. Still, while this may not be the best of the series, it is a well written and enjoyable story.	2003-10-01
957761:US	49115690	R3N60NHS7P7JA	0786929383	531740761	Night of Blood (Dragonlance: The Minotaur Wars, Vol. 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exciting adventure, well written and interesting	The old minotaur Emperor is old and the empire corrupt, yet Emperor Chot remains unbeatable in the arena. Rather than try his chances in the traditional method of minotaur succession, General Hotak launches a coup. Aided by his magician/priestess wife, Hotak ruthlessly destroys everyone loyal to the old regime, sending army units and ghosts against those who even consider resisting. Yet Hotak is unsatisfied with ruling the minotaur islands. Throwing aside Chot's tentative alliance with humans, Hotak decides to make common cause with the minotaurs' most ancient enemy--the ogres.<br />Although Hotak has eliminated most of the resistance, a few minotaurs remain unbowed. General Rahm, somehow protected from the priestess's magic, gathers a small force committed to destroying the pretender-emperor. Captured and worked as a slave in the mines, Faros plots eventual revenge. Yet their efforts, weak though they may be, are constantly undermined by the priestess's control over ghosts themselves.<br />Author Richard A. Knaak writes an exciting fantasy novel. The violent and headstrong minotaurs make intriguing protagonists. Hotak is surprisingly complex, wishing to serve his people and empire at the same time as he ruthlessly suppresses anyone who dares to oppose him. His wife and oldest son, in contrast, are purely self-interested, yet intelligent enough to know that supporting Hotak will serve their own interests as well--at least until Hotak finds family obligations at odds with his duty to his nation. Knaap's writing is approachable and his characters distinctive and interesting.<br />Fans of the DragonLance universe will find a lot to enjoy in NIGHT OF BLOOD.	2003-09-30
961155:US	49115690	RMOTXZ3NHDZ40	0743213661	563897796	Have You Seen Dawn?	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Well written and engaging mystery in small-town Texas	Rue Dunwitty expects a simple vacation when she travels from San Francisco to her childhood home in Amethyst, Texas. Instead, she is intrigued and mystified by grocery store posters asking about a missing teen. Rue can't help digging around and is shocked to find the girl's body--only to have it disappear before the police arrive. Everyone is urging Rue to leave town, but she can't make herself leave her aging grandmother. Except, will Rue herself become the next victim of a serial killer?<br />Author Steven Saylor draws a vivid picture of small-town Texas life. From its aging Bush for Governor bumper stickers to the whole-town turnout for the high school football team, to the volunteer efforts to search for the missing girl, Amethyst rings true. With plenty of red herrings around, Rue can find plenty of suspects. But is she letting her imagination run away from her?<br />Saylor hints at important questions in Rue's reflections on sex and rape. Is every man a monster, simply waiting for the opportunity to free himself from the shackles of society?<br />Mystery fans may find the identity of the killer easy to guess, but Saylor's high-quality writing makes getting there an enjoyable ride.	2003-09-27
961156:US	49115690	RDSTHISOKE1FQ	0743453484	492214240	Beachcomber (Robards, Karen)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Well written and entertaining	Christy Petrino has been having a bad few weeks. First she finds that her job and fiance are both Mafia-connected. Then she learns that she's got to do a mob drop herself if she doesn't want her entire family killed. And now, in the North Carolina banks where she's come to drop off a package, she's being chased by a serial killer. The only good thing she finds is hunky neighbor Luke Rand. Except what Christy doesn't know is that Luke is an FBI agent assigned to monitor her. Luke is certain that Christy is dirty and he intends to take her down--no matter what he has to do and no matter what lies he needs to tell.<br />Things go wrong for Luke from the minute Christy spots him leaving her patio. His story about a missing cat partially convinces her, but he knows that he'll have to work fast if he's going to stay plausible. How many times can a man just run into a beautiful woman without her getting suspicious--especially when he needs to save her life so often. Because the serial killer is quite insistent and quite determined to make Christy very dead.<br />Author Karen Robards writes compelling romantic suspense. The 'Beachcomber' is a suitably nasty serial killer--and a real threat to both Christy and Luke. The Mafia threat hanging over them adds to the spice as does Luke's secret. The rising attraction between Luke and Christy is compelling. I enjoyed waiting for the inevitable moment when Christy would realize the truth about the man she was falling for.<br />There are a few major logic holes in BEACHCOMBER--especially the serial killer's motivation to kill Christy. For me, though, the story worked despite these flaws. Robard's skillful writing kept me glued to the book, fascinated despite myself.	2003-09-27
967573:US	49115690	RN5AC42J9JJ3Z	0743471482	503866570	Crown Of Slaves (Honor Harrington)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Flawed but powerful--go Haven	Haven and Manticore are officially at war but effectively at peace but the two space titans continue to square off against one another. When a political leader is assassinated, neither Haven nor Manticore feels able to send an official government representative but both wish to send a message--and each space nation decides to send its top spy. In the case of Manticore, this is semi-retired Captain Anton Zilwicki, along with adopted daughter Berry and the Queen's niece Ruth. In the case of Haven, the young and intriguing Victor Cachat, along with his boss's wife. On Erewhon, disaffected ally of Manticore, the two find that their interests largely coincide. Both hate the slave trade that is carried out under the neglectful eye of the Solarian League. When evil religious zealots from Massada decide to make a statement, Cachat is forced to put on his cold-blooded act and find a way to drive it to Haven's advantage, but also to the advantage of the millions of enslaved people around the galaxy.<br />Set in David Weber's Honor Universe, Weber and Eric Flint  combine to follow up on some of the more intriguing short stories from the SERVICE OF THE SWORD.<br />Once CROWN OF SLAVES got going, it had great action, fascinating world-building, and added a new twist to the recently predictable world of Honor Harrington herself (Honor discovers a new technology or creates a new alliance in the nick of time to save Manticore from itself and the Havenites). Weber and Flint offer an intriguing take on slave rebellions, with thoughtful commentary on the problems that freed slaves have in creating stable democracies even if they stage a successful revolution.<br />Unfortunately, CROWN OF SLAVES did take a while to get going with an incredibly talky first two hundred pages. While a lot of material was presented in this introduction, the novel would have been strengthened by judicious pruning.<br />I'd be interested in other readers' feedback on the ultimate solution to the problem in slave-based societies. I found it difficult to believe that recently freed slaves would make the choice that Weber and Flint had them make. If they were going to choose something other than democracy and other than an ex-slave as a nominal leader, wouldn't they have chosen someone more mature, more experienced, and who had shown a deeper and more longstanding commitment to their cause (I could even buy ex-Countess Cathy Montaigne).<br />Wonderful character Victor Cachat more than makes up for the definite flaws in this powerful novel. Cachat's strong moral stands clash with his own ability to become a cold-blooded killer making him stand out as a fully dimensional human being. One you'd definitely want to have on your side if your country were under attack. Certainly Cachat has converted me. I'm pulling for Haven from now on in their endless battle with Manticore.in slave-based societies. I found it difficult to believe that recently freed slaves would make the choice that Weber and Flint had them make. If they were going to choose something other than democracy and other than an ex-slave as a nominal leader, wouldn't they have chosen someone more mature, more experienced, and who had shown a deeper and more longstanding commitment to their cause (I could even buy ex-Countess Cathy Montaigne). <br />Wonderful character Victor Cachat more than makes up for the definite flaws in this powerful novel. Cachat's strong moral stands clash with his own ability to become a cold-blooded killer making him stand out as a fully dimensional human being. One you'd definitely want to have on your side if your country were under attack. Certainly Cachat has converted me. I'm pulling for Haven from now on in their endless battle with Manticore.	2003-09-22
969425:US	49115690	R2VHE8W2GWLVT7	0312265778	414570088	With a Vengeance	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thrilling Suspense	At Blymore Memorial, patients who shouldn't be dying are dropping like flies. Maggie O'Brien--ER nurse and SWAT team medic, stumbles across this information almost by accident. And when she begins to suspect the worst--that someone among her friends and co-workers is killing off the scum of society--she finds herself a target. As she doggedly pursues her investigation, Maggie faces anonymous threats, an abusive father, a nosy reporter, and the awful possibility that her beloved best friend and sometimes lover, Sean Delaney, might be part of a shocking conspiracy.<br />With her latest thrilling suspense novel, author Eileen Dreyer has reached a new high. Fascinating characters, intense emotion, and gritty medical and police detail combine for a powerful page-turner, although sometimes I had to put it down because it was overwhelming. Sometimes I had to take a break just to remind myself that I wasn't sweltering in a St. Louis summer with Maggie. But I always came back, and the ultra-satifying ending made me glad I did. I hope to see Maggie O'Brien in future books--there's a lot yet to be mined from her character.	2003-09-20
971301:US	49115690	RL02GQEELCM61	0451456750	739185427	Island in the Sea of Time	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent alternate history	When the entire island of Nantucket is thrown back into the bronze age, the islanders have a problem. Their technology depends too much on imports from the now-vanished mainland. And even feeding the island will be tough--with no grains closer than England. Fortunately, a coast guard training square rigger was caught up in the time event and so the island isn't helpless. But even contacting the bronze age civilizations of Europe, let alone the stone-age cultures of the new world, has its problems. Plague for one thing as the time travellers replicate the European accidental genocide of the Native American population. But the bronze age savages of Europe are tough--and are good enough sailers that they could reach the new world if they knew where to look--and learned what a treasure-trove an entire island of 20th century technology can offer.<br />The island has a chance if everyone pulls together and police chief-turned political leader Jared Cofflin and coast guard captain Marian Alston do their best to ensure that everyone does so. Unfortunately, human nature rarely allows pure altrusim. In the case of Nantucket, there are those who want to carve out their own kingdom and those who want to prevent the re-creation of western culture. Either could be dangerous. Together, the two forces might just scuttle any hopes for survival--let alone return to the days of the hot shower.<br />Author S. M. Stirling writes an exciting story. A small city like Nantucket has close to the critical mass needed for modern civilization, but lacks the raw materials that are essential to our lives. As the time travellers contact other people, their risk grows. Stirling personalizes Cofflin and Alston, making the reader care about these characters and their attempts to recreate order in the midst of madness. Fans of military SF will enjoy the battle scenes as the Nantucket residents create effective military technology without access to gunpowder or smokeless powder.<br />I especially enjoyed Stirling's descriptions of the celtic war bands. With echos of Homer and the Germanic invasions of the late Roman period, the war leaders were proud, generous to followers, and quick to adopt a new military technology. Stirling also hinted at some interesting philosophical questions by setting modern (mostly Christian) people in a world centuries before Jesus, Mohammed, or Plato would be born.njoyed Stirling's descriptions of the celtic war bands. With echos of Homer and the Germanic invasions of the late Roman period, the war leaders were proud, generous to followers, and quick to adopt a new military technology. Stirling also hinted at some interesting philosophical questions by setting modern (mostly Christian) people in a world centuries before Jesus, Mohammed, or Plato would be born.	2003-09-18
973686:US	49115690	RJRVX1YLPW5QJ	0345435737	925808576	Jarka Ruus (High Druid of Shannara, Book 1)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A fine addition to the series	Grianne Ohmsford, the former Isle Witch and now High Druid, has problems. The new druid order she founded is in rebellion and her efforts to secure peace between the Federation and the Free-born have resulted in nothing. Still, when the attack comes, it catches her by surprise. Rather than simply kill her, her enemies banish her to Jarka Ruus, the forbidden land where the evil enemies were banished after the great wars. In a land where the ancient dragons, harpies, and furies hold sway, Grianne will have her hands full merely staying alive. What chance has she to return to her own world when the greatest mages of evil have failed for hundreds of years?<br />With Pen Ohlmsford, the spellsong magic has faded to nothing. What little magic he possesses relates to communications with non-humanoid life forms--plants and animals. His own parents don't trust him to join them in their quests. But when the rebelling druids seize control after banishing Grianne, they decide to be complete and ensure that none of the Ohlmsfords are free to challenge their rule or help Grianne. Their efforts send young Pen on an epic voyage. Guided by the elf-druid Ahren Elessedil, Pen must find a path to his aunt Grianne. First, however, the small band must escape the hunting druids. Pen's growing love for the daughter of the skyship they charter quickly complicates their life.<br />Author Terry Brooks extends his Shannara cycle with a new tale featuring many of the characters from the Jerle Shannara series, but introducing a new generation of explorers. JARKA RUUS will appeal especially to young adult readers with Pen battling self-doubt, limited magical abilities, and first-love in addition to the evil druids. JARKA RUUS is the first in a new series and leaves both Pen and Grianne in worse trouble than when they started, but getting there is definitely half the fun. Brooks's strong writing kept me involved and has me waiting for the next installment in the series.	2003-09-16
975452:US	49115690	R1DZ7DJO19LJQQ	0373218605	658436855	Hush	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Delicious entertainment	Pregnant and desparate, Georgie Brown contacts the family of her dead fiance. Her baby's grandfather, Caleb Crawford, had established a trust fund for his illegitimate son--and the baby is the heir. Surely he'll be willing to do something to help. Instead of support, though, Georgia finds doubt and anger. Worse, she learns that her baby's grandfather had kept her fiance's existance a secret from his wife. A marriage that has lasted for decades is suddenly hanging in the balance. Georgia may not be perfect, but she knows better than to stay where she isn't wanted--especially where her very presence threatens to destroy a family.<br />Carol Crawford had thought she could trust her husband--that there were no secrets to tear them apart. When she learns that he has been lying for decades, she wonders whether she can continue in the relationship. One thing for sure, though, she doesn't want to let Georgia simply walk out of their lives. But what can she do when the young woman is so determined to keep her independence--even in the face of threats. Because Georgia doesn't come without baggage.<br />Rick Crawford hates to see his parents fight--but he hates even more to see Georgia suffer. It doesn't take him long to determine that she is no cold-hearted gold-digger. Instead, she is a woman who cherishes her independence and who is willing to sacrifice her own happiness for those around her. He can't help falling in love with her despite the anguish this causes for his father--and the fact that Georgia tells him that there is no possibility for happiness for the two of them.<br />Author Judy Christenberry tells an emotional tale of family and of the destructive power of lies. Because Caleb has tried to keep his secret hushed, his family is threatened. Because of a secret that Georgia holds tight to herself, her own chances of happiness are lost. The sinister step-father to Georgia's late fiance adds an element of danger to the story.<br />As with many of Christenberry's novels, a strong sense of family and community gives HUSH warmth and sustains hope even as the Crawford family threatens to crumble and Rick's chances of happiness seem to fade. Fans of the Circle K series will be delighted to see returning characters--facing the tests that Caleb's lies create for all of them, and finding greater strength in their relationships. HUSH is another delightful Christenberry concoction--as delicious as some of the cakes and pies that her characters are always eating.s novels, a strong sense of family and community gives HUSH warmth and sustains hope even as the Crawford family threatens to crumble and Rick's chances of happiness seem to fade. Fans of the Circle K series will be delighted to see returning characters--facing the tests that Caleb's lies create for all of them, and finding greater strength in their relationships. HUSH is another delightful Christenberry concoction--as delicious as some of the cakes and pies that her characters are always eating.	2003-09-15
976082:US	49115690	R4PKUAC628AJX	0312890567	338109324	The White Dragon (In Fire Forged, Part 1)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Great worldbuilding and well-rounded characters. Superior.	After centuries of occupation, Sileria stands at the brink of liberation. Yet internal feuding among Sileria's population can destroy far more than her occupiers ever did. With the undisputed leader, Josarian, killed by treachery, his heirs must battle both the occupiers and the waterlords who, togther with their assassins, wish to create a new nation that only they control. But if the waterlords are successful, they will destroy the Guardians who worship and use fire, and their nation will be one of slaves and masters.<br />Josarian's blood-brother, Tansen, is one key to the island's survival. Constantly accompanied by a sea-born youth, Tansen alone has the charisma and respect to unite the people of Sileria against the water wizards, encouraging them to rise up against their oppressors of a thousand years. Yet Tansen is sickened by the acts of his allies, tired of the treachery that is a constant in Sileria, and uncertain how to seek his fate. His young associate's constant prodding to go to the sea and become consort to the sea goddess is hardly a help.<br />Nor are the enigmatic prophecies of Mirabar, the fire priestess obsessed with Josarian's death. Mirabar sees a new ruler--one who unites both water and fire. In a thousand years, Sileria has never known anything but war between followers of the two elements, but this is not the worst aspect of Mirabar's prophesy. Because she doesn't know who this future ruler is. The nation needs a ruler now, not in some distant future time. And the waterlords are moving swiftly to fill the gap.<br />Author Laura Resnick creates a rich and complex world of magic and conflicted individuals. Tansen, and the waterlord Kiloran are especially interesting--with past dark betrayals driving them forward. But other characters too, especially Ronall--the half Sileria, half Valdani lord show intriguing development and potential. Resnick's strong writing propells the story forward and makes the reader care about the outcome.	2003-09-14
979425:US	49115690	R1ULI4UO0BJETK	0743471431	167240143	Mad Maudlin (Bedlam Bard, Book 6)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Exciting adventure--but with a few holes	The children tell a story about Bloody Mary--seeing her means death. And homeless children in post-9/11 New York have been seeing a lot of death lately. Some of that death has magic at its core. Bard Eric Banyon is shocked to find that he has a brother--one raised in the same horrible environment that he barely escaped from, but that the brother has run away and is living homeless in New York. With the brother, an elf child--that rarest of treasures, and a talented girl struggle to survive--or to die. Eric knows helping his brother will be complicated, but he doesn't know that he'll have to face the frightful magic of Bloody Mary, a top-secret government organization dedicated to exterminating the magical among us, and a power-hungry maniac who thinks he can murder his way into the guardians.<br />Authors Mercedes Lackey and Rosemary Edghill offer an exciting urban fantasy adventure story. Targeted at young adults, MAD MAUDLIN reminds us that there can be things worse than homelessness. All three of the homeless children would rather die than return to their parents--and make frequent poor decisions as a result. Fortunately, Eric has powerful friends of his own--both among the elves and among humans. The guardians--magic-wielding humans exist to help those who need help, and Eric needs help a lot.<br />Lackey and Edghill rely on the fairly standard magic of urban fantasy--seelie and unseelie courts (seleighe and unseleighe in their book), super-beautiful elves, and generally evil adult humans.<br />MAD MAUDLIN left some loose ends--possibly to be resolved in the sequel. But I do wonder that none of our heroic party ever asked who sent the hell-hounds after the three children. Surely that is a question that needed to be answered. Also, I would have liked to have more evidence of Eric's parents' evil behavior. For the young-adult audience, this may not be an issue--parents are generally assumed to be self-absorbed and useless. For parents, pushing children to get out of bed and do something may be seen as less evil. Fans of Mercedes Lackey come in all ages and I can't imagine I was the only one disturbed by the lack of evidence for Eric's parents' perfidy.<br />Quibbles aside, MAD MAUDLIN is an exciting and well written story.ut of bed and do something may be seen as less evil. Fans of Mercedes Lackey come in all ages and I can't imagine I was the only one disturbed by the lack of evidence for Eric's parents' perfidy. <br />Quibbles aside, MAD MAUDLIN is an exciting and well written story.	2003-09-11
979611:US	49115690	R1OL755UD5IMC7	0375422366	416229475	Flynn's World: A Novel	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Funny, well written, but uncomfortable aftertaste	Francis Flynn, Boston's only police Inspector anticipates another ordinary day--setting a judge straight on a police frame, getting fired by the police Captain, and involving himself with his family. He's surprised when his daughter rousts him to rescue her boyfriend--whose ear has been nailed to a tree. The boyfriend refuses to tell who nailed him and quits the wrestling team leaving Flynn with a mystery. A second mystery soon comes foward. A Harvard professor, once a star but now out of style, has been receiving death threats. Flynn is directed to look into it by his spy-boss.<br />Along with hapless sidekick Grover (call me Richard), Flynn learns that Harvard has gone downhill, descending into internal dissension and value-free studies. The aging professor's old-fashioned beliefs that certain ideas are better, that certain (well educated) people make better leaders, and that professors have a mission to teach are considered elitist and outdated. Especially by one assistant professor who openly mocks the aging don while letting his own children grow up in a value free and hazardous environment. Flynn's large family, by contrast, is composed of well behaved and nearly perfect children.<br />Gregory Mcdonald's writing frequently left me laughing out loud. Flynn's wry comments and sly digs are appealing and certainly anyone would like to have Flynn's perfect family rather than the horrible life of the assistant professor (whose wife, unsurprisingly, is a child psychologist). Still, I think Mcdonald carried his message farther than the story allowed. Age-tested concepts and ideas may be fine, but then again, infant sacrifice, female mutilation, and witch-burning are age-tested ideas that survived for generations. Age and survival cannot be the test of an idea. Since Flynn is naturally perfect, he could certainly be our Platonic philosopher-king but, unfortunately, Flynn is fiction.<br />Mcdonald tried to tone down his message a little by introducing a neo-nazi cop--apparently intent on showing that Flynn (and Mcdonald) are not the elitist white males that the young professor would make them. Perhaps Flynn's contempt for 'Grover' is also intended to demonstrate a general contempt for the less educated, regardless of race. I found, however, that Flynn's treatment of his assistant was cruel and undeserved as Grover had his eyes opened by spending time with the professor and developing a real humanity--something that Flynn doesn't seem to share.<br />It's hard not to enjoy a Gregory Mcdonald book. His writing is very strong and compelling. His wit sparkles. It's hard to put FLYNN'S WORLD down--I read it in a single sitting despite the lateness of the hour. But it left an uncomfortable aftertaste.-apparently intent on showing that Flynn (and Mcdonald) are not the elitist white males that the young professor would make them. Perhaps Flynn's contempt for 'Grover' is also intended to demonstrate a general contempt for the less educated, regardless of race. I found, however, that Flynn's treatment of his assistant was cruel and undeserved as Grover had his eyes opened by spending time with the professor and developing a real humanity--something that Flynn doesn't seem to share. <br />It's hard not to enjoy a Gregory Mcdonald book. His writing is very strong and compelling. His wit sparkles. It's hard to put FLYNN'S WORLD down--I read it in a single sitting despite the lateness of the hour. But it left an uncomfortable aftertaste.	2003-09-11
982683:US	49115690	R2VODRO5H1P4Z3	0758201605	110059972	Last Writes (Jaine Austen Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Funny and quirky mystery	Writer Jaine Austen (no relation) is working for a sit-com, her freelance script picked up and now being shot. It's a great job and a big step up from writing copy for a toilet company. Better yet, one of the handsome actors is paying Jaine some serious attention. The only problem is, he's paying all of the women serious attention--and several of them are paying it back. When the actor ends up murdered, Jaines's best friend (and one of the actor's conquests) is the prime suspect. Jaine knows her friend didn't do it, but how can she prove it, and how can she keep herself alive?<br />Author Laura Levine writes with a sassy contemporary style. Jaine worries about her thighs, even as she helps herself to the second brownie, obsesses over her cat, and tries to sort out her parents' delusional lives, all while trying to solve a mystery. Levine's insights into Los Angeles screenwriting ring true, and Jaine has a best girlfriend sort of appeal.<br />I found the device of having Jaine give a smart comeback, then admitting that she didn't really say that to be amusing, but it became tired as Levine used it again and again. Likewise, I could have done with a little less of Prozac, the cat or neighbor Lance, neither of whom seemed really tied into the story. The aging memoir crew at the Shalome Retirement Home come on strong, however.	2003-09-09
983176:US	49115690	R3TR31RNG4186K	0451459083	543198748	Conquistador	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Intriguing and morally challenging	When California game preserve officer Tom Christiansen comes across a smugglers warehouse that includes a California Condor unrelated to any other Condor, he is suspicious, but dismisses his theories as science fiction dreams. But when he follows up with another raid and finds a long-extinct dodo, he knows that his SF readings haven't been completely in vain. There's something out there and he intends to get to the bottom of it. Unfortunately for Tom, what there is out there is a parallel universe where Columbus never sailed to the new world, but where twentieth century dimension travellers have relaunched the diseases and wars of conquest that parallel the genocide European explorers created in our own universe.<br />To preserve their secret, the conquistadors of this parallel world abduct Tom and his friend Tully across the dimensional gateway.<br />Once in the new universe, Tom faces a problem. His abductors have created a pirate kingdom, genocided the native population, and created an almost all white fantasy world of a near-pristine California. Worse, many of the settlers were disgruntled whites fleeing African, Indochinese, and Algerian colonial ventures. Yet, Tom's abductors are the goodguys. A cabal of Africaneers dreaming of a return to South Africa, and of Russians looking to dominate both universes, threatens to overthrow the (mostly American) pirate government. Can Tom justify throwing in his lot with the Americans--especially as he has fallen in love with one of them?<br />CONQUISTADOR gives a different slant on the parallel universes story. Rather than the single heroic individual (e.g., Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen (see our review)), an entire population migrates. According to the inhabitants, the diseases they introduced were largely involuntary--as was primarilly the case in our own universe. Based on this different approach, CONQUISTADOR is a very different story.<br />Tom Christiansen's vaguely negative feelings toward what he calls the 'pirate kings' allows the reader to cheer him on through an exciting adventure that makes up the final third of the novel. Careful readers, however, will note that the resolution remains a racist white world that continues to commit genocide against the native peoples. Tom has been coopted (by marrying the princess, of course). Finding an even more definite evil has allowed him to assage any moral guilt.<br />I also had some problems with the action sequence. First, once Tom's raiding party discovered proof of the conspiracy, why couldn't they have notified the authorities at once, rather than shooting it out with dozens of heavily armed soldiers? Whether Adrienne's final action at the gate is morally justified can certainly be argued.<br />Author S. M. Stirling has created an intriguing world--a world where ex-soldiers play at hunting, genocide, and cowboys-and-Indians. Perhaps Stirling's message is that even basically good people like Tom can be coopted by evil, as long as they see that they are doing some good. Or perhaps the message is that a feudal militaristic dictatorship would create a world where the environment was preserved (except the people, of course, who were eliminated) and manly men would prevail. It certainly gives the reader pause.ngs' allows the reader to cheer him on through an exciting adventure that makes up the final third of the novel. Careful readers, however, will note that the resolution remains a racist white world that continues to commit genocide against the native peoples. Tom has been coopted (by marrying the princess, of course). Finding an even more definite evil has allowed him to assage any moral guilt. <br />I also had some problems with the action sequence. First, once Tom's raiding party discovered proof of the conspiracy, why couldn't they have notified the authorities at once, rather than shooting it out with dozens of heavily armed soldiers? Whether Adrienne's final action at the gate is morally justified can certainly be argued. <br />Author S. M. Stirling has created an intriguing world--a world where ex-soldiers play at hunting, genocide, and cowboys-and-Indians. Perhaps Stirling's message is that even basically good people like Tom can be coopted by evil, as long as they see that they are doing some good. Or perhaps the message is that a feudal militaristic dictatorship would create a world where the environment was preserved (except the people, of course, who were eliminated) and manly men would prevail. It certainly gives the reader pause.	2003-09-08
985518:US	49115690	R3CHB4179AOJQ2	0312277318	433712169	Crouching Buzzard, Leaping Loon	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Funny, with a good insight in programming culture	When her brother asks her to help him sort out the problems in his computer game company, Meg Langslow thinks it is the [plain] version of Lawyers from Hell causing the problems, but the dead man on the robotic mail delivery system is far more serious--especially when the police tag her brother as the primary suspect. Knowing that the police are unlikely to look past their first catch, Meg decides to investigate on her own. But every time she tries a late-night investigation at the company, she runs into gaming programmers, psychologists having affairs, and others behaving badly.<br />An assortment of animals--including the pack of dogs that the programmers bring to work and a one-winged buzzard, along with a strange animal-loving motorcycle hood and hints of blackmail complicate the plot and give Meg fits as she tries to sort out what is really important. An excitng and wacky conclusion adds to an amusing and surprisingly thoughtful read.<br />Author Donna Andrews nails the strange chemistry of a group of programmers struggling to create lives for themselves even as they survive a death-march toward product deployment. Meg is an entertaining character, thoughtful enough to be sympathetic, but with more curiosity than common sense. Although the ultimate killer is not especially hard to guess, in CROUCHING BUZZARD, LEAPING LOON, at least, getting to the conclusion is where the fun is. And this novel is a lot of fun.	2003-09-06
987448:US	49115690	RN07GC6QGT7ZC	0743449126	116944393	3: Tong Lashing: The Continuing Adventures of Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Leaves no pun unturned, no fantasy classic unparodied	Fleeing from his career as 'Peacelord,' Sir Apropos of Nothing takes a ship, leaving behind his long-time love interest Sharee. As typical for Apropos, the ship does not make a safe landing. Instead, after a terrible role-playing-game incident involving the gay mouser [sic], Doubting Tomas (the unbeliever playing with his white-gold ring), and Ronnell McDonnell [sic again], Apropos is cast ashore in a strange China/Japan land where his round eyes are thought of as strange and where his bad luck quickly follows. Following an excursion into the world of the Karate Kid, Apropos is faced with the new challenge of finding himself caring for others--and wondering how to take care of someone other than himself.<br />Combining fantasy adventure with allusion to just about any fantasy you can think of (although Tolkien was pretty much taken care of in the earlier volume in the series), and an interesting if depressing cynicism, author Peter David offers a highly readable and compelling story. For most of the book, Apropos actually seems to be turning into a person, wondering how to balance his own needs with those of others, finding a true love, and learning to care about even the simple people of the world. The accidental creation of the great wall of China, multiple horrible puns (including the high-priced Ho of Apropos's infatuation), and the evil emperor's control of the force add to the appeal.<br />Occasionally, David gets a little too clever, pulling the reader out of the story, and Apropos's long introspections could sometimes be cut to the good of the book, but these are minor quibbles. I did find the strong note of homophobia, however, to be unfortunate, and the ending, while certainly in keeping with the Apropos series, left me a little flat. Still, TONG LASHING is funny, readable, and an intriguingly different story.	2003-09-05
989448:US	49115690	R2ZKTDJEESJJLB	0743233468	912119362	Bare Bones: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Coincidences weaken well-written story	Dr. Tempe Brennan, forensic anthropologist, can't seem to get a break. She's counting the minutes to her long-awaited vacation with a possible new boyfriend, but she simply can't break away from her work. Her expertise is suddenly needed everywhere--first, to examine the charred bones of a newborn, who happens to be the grandchild of an old acquaintance. Then, it's the charred bodies of the pilot and passenger in a suspicious private plane crash. And even her irrepressible chow, Boyd, causes trouble by digging up a pile of suspicious bones. But it soon becomes apparent that these cases are intriguingly linked.<br />The possible boyfriend, Montreal detective Andrew Ryan, takes the postponed vacation in stride. He helps Tempe investigate, fields nosy questions from Tempe's daughter, Katy, who is causing Tempe additional anxiety with a suspicious new boyfriend of her own. And Ryan bonds with Boyd, whom he insists on calling \\"Hooch.\\"<br />The stakes become higher than a canceled vacation when Tempe gets threatening phone calls and e-mails from a stalker who wants her to stop asking so many questions. But this only makes Tempe more determined to get to the bottom of the mystery. Along the way she's forced to work with her least-favorite detective, Skinny Slidell, who is a smoking, junk-food-scarfing, sexist neanderthal.<br />You just can't fault Ms. Reichs's forensic-science details. Tempe's investigative techniques are rendered with so much verisimilitude that the reader feels as if he's reading an actual case study of a true crime. Ms. Reich is very much in the same league as Patricia Cornwell in that respect. The bits and pieces of trivia picked up along the way are downright fascinating--everything from the nuances of DNA testing and bone identification to the smell of a 50-year-old privy on a sweltering summer day.<br />I do have a beef about this book, however. There was too much coincidence. In addition to the three separate cases that all ended up being parts of the same case, there were numerous smaller coincidences that dulled the believability factor. Tempe just happened to be at some obscure picnic out in the middle of nowhere where her dog dug up bones related to her current cases? And she happens to spot a fugitive drug dealer, the probable father of the dead baby, at a restaurant? And as the name of a missing person comes to Tempe's attention as a possible connection to the case, someone accidentally stumbles across his body floating in a lake--where he's been for five years. How convenient that he picks now to surface.<br />That said, I will continue to buy and read Ms. Reich's books. Even with coincidences, Bare Bones is still a great read.of the same case, there were numerous smaller coincidences that dulled the believability factor. Tempe just happened to be at some obscure picnic out in the middle of nowhere where her dog dug up bones related to her current cases? And she happens to spot a fugitive drug dealer, the probable father of the dead baby, at a restaurant? And as the name of a missing person comes to Tempe's attention as a possible connection to the case, someone accidentally stumbles across his body floating in a lake--where he's been for five years. How convenient that he picks now to surface. <br />That said, I will continue to buy and read Ms. Reich's books. Even with coincidences, Bare Bones is still a great read.	2003-09-03
989533:US	49115690	R15IMCPOS92VD5	0060519134	490902723	Savannah Blues: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Delightful characters	Weezie and Caroline go head to head over a crumbling plantation house.  Caroline has big plans to bulldoze the historic building and put up a paper mill.  Weezie wants to save the house as a historic landmark--and get her hands on the fabulous, valuable antiques within.  One cupboard in particular has caught her eye.  If she can score it, she'll make enough profit to open her shop.<br />But Weezie's overzealous interest in the house and an upcoming sale of the contents lands her squarely in the middle of a murder investigation--with the murder weapon in her possession.  And in the middle of everything, she's trying to deal with a mother whose drinking problem has hit a crisis point, as well as a formerly-nerdy-boyfriend-turned-hunk who still has the hots for her.<br />This book was so much fun to read.  It's been a long time since I could cheer for a heroine as endearing as Weezie.  The characters were sharply drawn and so true to live, even as they were exaggerated.  Weezie's best friend, Bebe Loudermilk, is a delight, and her uncle, an ex-priest-turned-lawyer coming to terms with his homosexuality, is a wonderful character.  Much of the book is told from his point of view, in third person, while the rest is first person from Weezie's viewpoint.  It's an odd set-up, but it works.<br />If there was any fault to find in this book, it was that the author went a little gentle with the heroine.  Yes, Weezie got herself into terrible fixes, but there were times when she wiggled off the hook a bit too easily.  (For example, though she was initially suspected of murder, no one really thought she did it and she was never charged.)  Also, the solution to the mystery was less than satisfying.  I can't say more than that without giving something away.<br />Still, the book was so thoroughly readable, so engaging, that I didn't really care about the mystery all that much.  I just wanted to keep spending time with those delightful characters.	2003-09-03
990361:US	49115690	R37DGPOAJGU75C	0373037600	599836621	The Tuscan Tycoon's Wife	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Cinderella with a twist	Selena Gates just wants to make it to the next rodeo, the next chance for a payday that will keep her, her aging trailer, and her aging barrel pony on the road for another chance. When her friend suggests she marry a millionaire, Selena laughs. A miracle would be easier--millionaires don't go for women without curves. Selena's hopes seem shattered when she runs into a car--and meets handsome Leo Calvani--the Italian farmer who just happens to be a super-rich aristocrat. Leo keeps his personal history a secret when he discovers that Selena has strong class prejudices. She distrusts the rich and is absolutely fearful of the titled aristocracy.<br />The two find the attraction overwhelming and Selena, after a series of rodeo successes made possible by Leo's secret financing of a new trailer and a new horse, visits him in Italy. She is shocked to discover that he is rich--and hobnobs with the titled of Italy. Still, he is a farmer at heart and she consoles herself with that when he asks her to marry him. But when she learns that he is to be the heir to the Venetian palace and the title of Count, she draws the line.<br />Author Lucy Gordon tells a Cinderella tale with a twist--this Cinderella doesn't want a prince. She wants a horse. Failing a horse, a farmer would do. Gordon's strong writing sustains reader interest despite her limited explanation of exactly what made these two people right for each other. American readers are likely to find Selena unconvincing as a fellow American. Her diction is ever-so-British (no American would ever wear a bathing costume), and her anti-aristocratic reverse snobbery is unknown in the states (we don't have enough contact with the aristocrats to have any negative feelings about them). Even lacking this, Selena is annoying with her willingness to assume that everyone thinks the worst about her, and to blame others for her problems (she was the one who ran into Leo's car but she failed to take responsibility for following too closely).<br />It's a challenge to combine an independent heroine with a care-giving and wealthy hero. Gordon makes a valiant attempt and THE TUSCAN TYCOON'S WIFE makes for a mostly enjoyable read.. <br />It's a challenge to combine an independent heroine with a care-giving and wealthy hero. Gordon makes a valiant attempt and THE TUSCAN TYCOON'S WIFE makes for a mostly enjoyable read.	2003-09-02
996097:US	49115690	RKB9NA1IUQ54M	0312283601	234490707	Die Once: A Dido Hoare Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nicely written and English. A fun read	Single mother and antique book dealer Dido Hoare is supprised when one of her best customers bounces a check. Then she finds that he apparently committed suicide. Financial ruin would explain the bounced check and the suicide, but it wouldn't explain the continued interest the police have in her customer, the law firm that's handling his non-existant estate, or the odd story that turns up in the newspaper writing up the dead man's life. Dido is in to the tune of the two hundred pounds the first edition Dickens is worth and she decides to see if she can get her money back somehow. What she finds is a surprise--none of the expensive books she sold the dead man are anywhere in sight.<br />Author Marianne Macdonald writes an interesting story. Dido and her father, Barnabas, in particular are well developed characters with full lives and curiosity that drives them on even when they know that they are simply getting into trouble. Macdonald's strong writing sustains reader interest even when not much is happening.<br />Toward the final third of the novel, the story seems to meander a bit, as if Macdonald wasn't sure where to take it. The plot line recovers however, with an exciting chase scene to bring things to closure. Fans of this fine series will definitely enjoy DIE ONCE.	2003-08-28
997282:US	49115690	RE3PNK4QNE603	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	High adventure with strong emotional stakes	Loving a vampire isn't easy, but for mind-reader Sookie Stackhouse, it has its consolations. Until, that is, her vampire boyfriend Bill takes up with an old sweetheart and is kidnapped by the King of Mississippi. Bill's boss, Eric, asks Sookie to user her mind-reading talents to see if she can locate Bill before his captors kill him and Sookie agrees. She's smarting from Bill's betrayal, but she still cares for him enough that she doesn't want him to suffer.<br />Along with a werewolf who owes Eric a favor, Sookie leaves Louisianna and heads for Mississippi and Club Dead--a bar where only the supernatural hang out. She can't read a vampire's mind, one of Bill's attractions for her, but she can read their dates. And she soon learns that Bill is still alive, but not for long. She has to rescue him, but first, she has to stay alive long enough to do the job. And with Sookie Stackhouse, staying alive is a constant challenge.<br />Author Charlaine Harris ups the emotional stakes in CLUB DEAD. Sookie faces betrayal from her boyfriend, the dangerous affections of a werewolf and Eric, heavy-handed 'help' from Bubba (formerly Elvis), and an entire kingdom of vampires who want something from Bill and are willing to risk war to get it. And then there's the crazy guy with a stake and the motorcycle-riding werewolf gangs. With all the adventure, it's still the emotional impact that makes Club Dead work. Sookie is torn between her love for Bill and what her life with the vampires has become. Bill's betrayal only adds to her sense of loss.	2003-08-27
997865:US	49115690	RQIHEDA3RMUZR	0765305518	139888099	Sims (Wilson, F Paul)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Compelling and current	Patrick Sullivan is a lawyer, not an activist. If the country club managers hadn't been so rude and so contemptuous, he would have walked away from the sims seeking a union. In a moment of pique, however, he took on the clients and the case--and set himself up for a world of trouble. SimGen has become one of the largest corporations in America largely on the strength of one 'product.' A genetically altered species of chimpanzee, with human genes spliced in--the sim. Thanks to hardworking sims (engineered to work without complaining, without pay, and without weekends and holidays), the U.S. is able to compete with low-wage countries again, able to spare its 'humans' from the worst jobs, and able to enjoy an economic boom. When Patrick files his lawsuit, SimGen turns its legal and extra-legal weapons directly on him--because sims are property, and property cannot unionize, cannot petition the government, and certainly cannot be considered 'people' in any sense--not if SimGen is to stay in business. Worse, SimGen has powerful backers--backers that frighten even the corporation's founders. They don't like Patrick much either. Fortunately, Patrick finds a few allies--in an organization that is trying to eliminate the entire sim industry. But allies like that can get him killed too.<br />Author F. Paul Wilson has created a powerful and exciting story out of current headlines. In scientific circles, there is currently a debate about whether chimpanzees should be reclassified as part of genus homo--as part of the human family. They are, in fact, more closely related to humans than they are to gorillas. DNA research is inserting genes from one species into another--to produce insect resistant crops and specialty animals for medical research. Science could allow development of something like the sims, and allow it relatively soon. Wilson's fears about the government backing down to financial pressures and of secret government funding of projects is also based on current trends--the C.I.A. has even created a venture capital fund to promote research into areas of its interest. Wilson didn't even get into the heart of the problems of government agencies who have their own funding and no need to go to Congress for funding and authorization.<br />Wilson's strong writing propells the story forward. Although many of the plot twists are predictable, they are, nevertheless, enjoyable and satisfying. SIMS is hard to put down. I read it in a single sitting.ds--the C.I.A. has even created a venture capital fund to promote research into areas of its interest. Wilson didn't even get into the heart of the problems of government agencies who have their own funding and no need to go to Congress for funding and authorization. <br />Wilson's strong writing propells the story forward. Although many of the plot twists are predictable, they are, nevertheless, enjoyable and satisfying. SIMS is hard to put down. I read it in a single sitting.	2003-08-27
998715:US	49115690	REL5CY81N74JQ	0373273118	748589664	Heartbreak Hero (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nice sexy romance, drug subplot weakens story	When the badguys kill his partner, Global Drug operative Kel Jellic vows to get his revenge--and to stop the mule who threatens to bring the designer drug kiss-and-tell. From his dying partner, Kel had learned the name of the mule--N. Two Feathers McKay. What he didn't expect was a beautiful woman of mixed Native American, Maori, and Scottish ancestery.<br />Ngaire Two Feathers McKay has lived under a curse--and the only way to lift it and to survive her upcoming thirtieth birthday is to return the sacred stone carving to New Zealand where it belongs. When she wins a trip to the islands as a prize from a quizz show, it seems like fate. But others are after the carving and all of her Hapkido skills seem barely enough to keep her alive. The only good thing is that she meets this sexy guy--Kel. Although the rest of the world may be out to get her, she senses that she can trust Kel. Can't she?<br />Author Frances Housden pours her heart into the sexual attraction between Kel and Ngaire and has fun with the action scenes. The New Zealand setting comes alive as the characters survive a tour bus ride through the two islands. The hint of a paranormal element (from the stone carving) is handled nicely as well. I found the drug sub-plot to be unconvincing, however. Kel soon realizes that Ngaire cannot be carrying the drug and decides that she must be carrying the formula. But why would international drug dealers use a mule to carry a formula? Why not simply send it via e-mail? Even if Ngaire is carrying the formula, stopping her would do little to stop international drugs. Another mule (or another e-mail) could soon be delivered. Finally, Ngaire's room is searched. Although the stone carving was in the safe, why wouldn't the Global Drug team have discovered the formula if there is one? For me, at least, the entire drug scenario weakens the story.<br />From a romance standpoint, however, Housden's writing is strong with a wounded hero, a spunky and fighting heroine, a few family entanglements (from earlier stories), and enough sexual tension to light a fire.amily entanglements (from earlier stories), and enough sexual tension to light a fire.	2003-08-26
1000027:US	49115690	RONJB7JMXUPYO	0525947388	972368191	Bubbles Ablaze	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Cute and sassy--a fun read	Bubbles Yablonsky just wants a weekend of sin and sex with her boyfriend Steve Stiletto. When she gets a fax from her newspaper boss telling her to pursue a murder, she wants to blow it off--but Stiletto hasn't shown and Bubbles is a reporter, willing to do whatever it takes to get the story. The fax was a fraud, but the murder was real--real enough that the killer nearly got Bubbles and Stiletto with the same mine disaster. Now Bubbles needs to track down the truth--and write the kick-ass story that will get her byline in major press. But everyone seems anxious to keep her away from the story and everything seems to conspire to keep her from ever getting Stiletto in the sack.<br />Bubbles Yablonsky, combination reporter/hair stylist, is a charming character--a woman who loves her daughter but wouldn't be caught dead without the right makeup and high-heeled shoes. Her quest for the truth in a world where women have perfected the nag and feed spell to keep their men under control, where the police chief is bugging all the town's phones, and where everyone seems related and knows everyone's business is funny and sympathetic.<br />Author Sara Strohmeyer delivers the goods in this fast-paced comic mystery. Between the Celtic ruins of Pennsylvania, references to the Molly McGuire gang of the 19th century, and the ever-burning coal fire deep in the mineshafts under Limbo, PA, Strohmeyer's offers a fascinating world that has enough nuggets of truth to compell interest. Although Bubbles sometimes comes off as purely silly, her concern for her family (especially too-smart for her own good daughter Jane), jealous affection toward Stiletto, and love for her odd mother and cousin, make the reader identify and sympathize.<br />A few research error crop do crop up--I am still trying to picture how Stiletto fit in the back seat of a Miata. They don't have back seats. Trust me, you won't care. Still, I'm not sure I'm ready to try out any of Bubbles's beauty secrets.	2003-08-25
1001686:US	49115690	R14KSLLV7PM7NJ	034544423X	851987429	American Empire: The Victorious Opposition	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fascinating alternate history--but could be trimmed	Although they were defeated in the Great War (counterpart to WWI), the Confederate States haven't given up the idea of getting revenge. Now ruled by Jake Featherston (Hitler), the south has began a campaign of genocide against the African Americans, incited rebellion in the territories occupied by the Union, and violated all of their agreements to remain disarmed. THE VICTORIOUS OPPOSITION is the countdown to war with the Union doing everything it can to avoid it--even if it means appeasement.<br />Author Harry Turtledove has created a powerful alternate reality in the GREAT WAR/AMERICAN EMPIRE series of which this is fifth novel. Aided by Britain and France, the south won the civil war. When the United States allied with Germany during the Great War, France, Britain, and the Confederacy were defeated. Like the Germans in our own reality, the seeds of future violence were planted in that victory.<br />Turtledove tells his story from the point of view of a number of characters--a builder in Los Angeles, an officer on an aircraft carrier, a lawyer in occupied Canada, a farmer in free Quebec--including several senior officers and politicians. Some of these characters are more interesting than others (and some are dying, having played out their roles in earlier novels). Because Turtledove uses so many characters, he has developed strong character tags--which sometimes step over the barrier into repetition.<br />While a few of the point-of-view characters fail to move the story along, THE VICTORIOUS OPPOSITION still makes fascinating reading. It is interesting to think of a divided United States (and dramatically different voting patterns within the current U.S. make it even more interesting as readers contemplate a southern President who lies his nation into war) and how a different outcome in the American Civil War would have affected the entire course of history (would we have considered the Austrian reaction to the assassination of the Arch-Duke as justifiable in light of the terrorism that Serbia supported?).<br />The book could have stood a careful edit and some trimming, but Turtledove's story-telling overcomes these limitations.light of the terrorism that Serbia supported?). <br />The book could have stood a careful edit and some trimming, but Turtledove's story-telling overcomes these limitations.	2003-08-23
1003638:US	49115690	R2P5J4YMDH0CHN	0373037619	783739551	The Blind - Date Proposal	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Funny and charming	Temping secretary Kate Savage has told her friends about her horrible boss so, when they set her up for a blind date with a widower with stories about a terrible secretary, the friends think they have a magical match. The two will be able to exchange war stories, relax, and get to know each other. Except the war stories are about each other. And there's no way Kate is going to get interested in Fin McBride--even if he is a hunky sort.<br />After a miserable date, Kate wonders if she'll be fired. Finn tells her it would be too much trouble to hire another temp, but he seems to keep a close eye on her. When Kate rescues an abandoned dog and brings it into the office, it's almost the limit for Finn. The office is no place for animals. His daughter, visiting the office because his housekeeper had a medical emergency, doen't agree and what nine-year-old Alex wants, she tends to get. First she wants the dog--and then she wants a mom. Kate tries to persuade herself, and Finn, that she's a party-girl, completely not ready to settle down with a man. Since Finn only talks about practical things and has never recovered from his late wife's death, that doesn't seem to be a problem--except when Kate falls in love--hard.<br />Author Jessica Hart writes in a breezy urban style. American readers will delight in the little Britishisms that litter her style. Everyone will laugh with Kate at her dating disaster, and it would take a hard heart indeed not to feel sympathetic for Kate's problems. Kate makes a wonderful heroine, sassy and unwilling to back down from a fight, but always willing to help out the underdog. Finn's daughter Alex was a delight, avoiding the saccarine sweetness that marrs some romances. Finn is the perfect befuddled male, sexy and kind but clueless.<br />THE BLIND-DATE PROPOSAL is a funny and enjoyable read. I couldn't put it down.	2003-08-21
1005384:US	49115690	R2O0ZOBDARZPNX	0399150595	295571531	Havana Run: A John Deal Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting but unconvincing	Since his father's suicide and manufactured evidence of his corruption, John Deal has been forced off the police force and struggled to recover his father's once-thriving construction business from the financial problems his father's death had created. When wealthy hispanic businessman Fuentes offers Deal a million dollars as a retainer and invites him to Havana, Deal initially resists. He doesn't believe in things being too good to be true--he can't afford the hidden costs. But when the government asks him to cooperate with Fuentes, he agrees to play along.<br />Once in Havana, life becomes complicated. In addition to the government, at least two groups seem to want Deal's cooperation. An adventure of chases through the jungle, into Ernest Hemmingway's old boat, and through the streets of Havana ensues. What Deal learns is that there are secrets within secrets and tha everything he had believed is a fabrication.<br />Author Les Standiford offers a well written and interesting adventure story. Despite the implausibility of much of the story, Standiford's adventure-telling draws the reader in. Deal is largely unsympathetic and emotionally uncompelling as his cynical nature refuses to let him believe anyone (probably wise since everyone has been lying to him). HAVANA RUN does raise a number of important questions--the role of the mob in post-Castro Cuba, the trigger-happy nature of both the Cuban and American militaries, and whether the U.S.'s current restrictions on contact with Cuba truly serve anyone's interest.	2003-08-20
1006649:US	49115690	R10HGXMXJO4B50	0373196784	777359011	Beauty & The Beastly Rancher (From The Circle K) (Silhouette Romance # 1678)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Classic fairy tale romance	Joe Crawford has a face only a mother could love. Fortunately, beautiful widow Anna Pointer is a mother with two young children who need a father. Anna is a fighter who won't ask anyone for anything, but when Joe rescues her from two attackers, she can't help notice the kind and loving man. A man who is wonderful to her children and gives her thrills that her late husband never even attempted. Still, when Joe starts talking marriage, Anna knows he is crazy. He may love her children, but he's never mentioned the 'L' word about her.<br />Best-selling author Judy Christenberry loves fairy tale romances and BEAUTY & THE BEASTLY RANCHER is a classic fairy tale. Perhaps love will tame this beast, but neither Anna nor Joe is willing to open their hearts--and their marriage seems doomed to crumble when it faces a crisis--as it must. Rich and successful Joe might not be cover-model material, but he's tall and strong and a cowboy--plenty to build a fantasy on.<br />Christenberry uses secondary characters--Joe's mother, sisters-in-law, and especially Anna's daughter, as matchmakers, driving the relationship forward and giving the reader assurance that the two really are meant for one another--once they dare to trust.	2003-08-19
1008237:US	49115690	RU6K3BHAVB3P0	076530449X	793020278	Beyond the Hanging Wall	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable, especially for younger readers	While on a medical mission in the prison-mines, physician apprentice Garth Baxtor discovers the heir to the throne of Escator. The discovery transforms Garth's life--makes him seek out evidence of the crime that was committed, and the magical tests that could restore the true king to the thrown. But Prince Maxamilian fears the outside world and doubts his own identity. In a world where the longest lifespan is one or two years, Maxamilian has survived for seventeen--but much of his identity is now lost. How can a young apprentice hope to overcome the entire governmental organization--when his prince doesn't even want to be helped?<br />Fortunately, Garth stumbles across help. A swamp woman's daughter offers powerful magic. A monk searches the library for clues. And a mysterious order dedicated to the royal family of Escator hears of Garth's quest and volunteers to help. With a quick turnaround from Maxamilian and some powerful magic, order can be restored in the kingdom.<br />Author Sara Douglass. Adolescent Garth will appeal to younger readers and Douglass's smooth writing makes the fairly linear plot seem more interesting than it would in less skilled hands.<br />BEYOND THE HANGING WALL isn't Douglass's strongest story but it lacks the genocidal bent to some of her other stories. Fans will definitely want to add this one to their collection.	2003-08-18
1009343:US	49115690	RPCYS9J34FXF6	1590580311	524075656	Four for a Boy:  A John the Eunuch Mystery	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another wonderful mystery of Byzantine  Constantinople	The aging emperor, Justin, is increasingly infirm and his nephew and heir, Justinian, is sick. As a result, the city of Constantinople is convulsed by doubt and riots. The Blues (one of the racing factions that battled in the streets of the greatest city in the world) rule the streets, suppressed only by the police authorities who have become increasingly violent. When a rich man is murdered, the senators are quick to point the finger at Justinian. Justinian may be sick (he believes he's being poisoned), but he isn't stupid. He asks a slave, John the Eunuch, to help investigate.<br />What John finds seems to point the finger more directly at Justinian. Because there is a conspiracy at work, and the victim seems to have been involved with the conspirators. Yet John, accompanied by the royal bodyguard, Felix, suspects that they are missing something. That suspicion becomes more deeply seated when John and Felix are nearly killed by professional assassins. Somehow, John has to get to the bottom of the mystery, ensure that the results don't reflect badly on his patron, and prevent riots from destroying the city. It's a lot to ask a slave.<br />Authors Mary Reed and Eric Mayer write convincingly of Constantinople in one of its most famous and dangerous periods. Christianity is the legal religion, but pagan and Mithraism remain strong (if illegal) forces. Christianity itself is violently divided by clashing beliefs about the nature of Jesus's divinity--a clash that the Emperor must often play a role in healing. In a few years, Justinian will undertake his epic and doomed quest to restore the Roman Empire--but only if he can survive.<br />Set fifteen years before the earlier novels in this series, FOUR FOR A BOY is both enjoyable and fascinating. Anyone interested in this critical timeframe, or interested in a good historical mystery, will want to read this book.	2003-08-16
1009704:US	49115690	R2DQA7QLFRQYAW	0373169841	635197816	Montana Twins (Harlequin American Romance, No 984)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Babies and marriage of convenience gone right	Laura Cavendish has been raising her late foster-sister's twin babies, but now she has to make a choice. Her sister had wanted the babies to be with their uncle, but only if he had a suitable wife. Sheriff Eric Oakes was abandoned by his mother and knows that he isn't the loving kind. Still, when he sees those precious babies, he wants them--wants them badly enough to advertise for a wife who'll let him live up to Laura's rigid qualifications. Unfortunately, once Laura walks into his life, she's the only woman who attracts him.<br />As time passes and no suitable wife-candidates turn up, Laura gets ready to return to her teaching job--when Eric gets a brainstorm. Why don't the two of them marry. Both love the babies. Both want the babies to have both mother and father. Although Eric is still convinced that he cannot love, he's willing to do anything for his family. More and more, family includes Laura. Laura is convinced that she is unworthy of love as she cannot bear children. The twins are the only babies she'll ever have. But is a loveless marriage fair to anyone?<br />Neither Laura nor Eric has bothered looking into the issue of the babies' father--but attentive readers will pick up on the growing threat to the loss of everything that Laura and Eric have worked for.<br />Author Charlotte Maclay offers a well-written tale of romance, unexpected babies, and marriage-of-convenience that turns out to hold unexpected passion. I found the casual dismissal of the biological father issue to be troubling and Laura's belief that no man would want her because of her inability to bear children to be a tad excessive, but Eric makes a fine lightly-tortured hero. Eric's family and the entire town of Grass Valley, Montana, provide the warm feeling Harlequin American readers have learned to count on.	2003-08-16
1010325:US	49115690	RU6BNM3PKNTJJ	0743435990	911600384	The Service of the Sword (Worlds of Honor #4)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Excellent Honor universe story with (thankfully) no cats	Women escape from the religious tyrrany of Masada, the Manticore navy pursues pirates and develops new allies, naval losers congregate on a single ship, Manticore spies pursue love and beer in an enemy capital, Haven secret police find a new role for complete fanaticism, and the Manticore navy pursues pirates once again--in a nutshell, IN THE SERVICE OF THE SWORD gives readers a series of new insights into the universe of Honor Harrington. Written by David Weber and a variety of Baen authors. As a pleasant surprise, all of the stories are good with Fanatic, by Eric Flint, especially standing out.<br />Fans of the Tree Cats will be disappointed--they are pretty much non-starters in this story of human players in the game of space. For me, this is a plus. While the 'cats can add to the story, their insipid cuteness gets old fast (Tree-cat fans should, however, definitely check out CHANGER OF WORLDS which is pretty intensively 'cat-centered).<br />The Honor Harrington series is a huge (and deserved) success and fans will enjoy seeing how different authors play with the universe that author David Weber has created. Honor herself appears in only one of these stories (although she is mentioned in most) and the stories are not essential to the continuity of the series. On the positive side, THE SERVICE OF THE SWORD can be read independently and creates a fine introduction to the series for those who have not yet discovered Honor and her friends.	2003-08-15
1013263:US	49115690	R2ZA68P4HSPM6O	031230451X	47257238	Snobbery with Violence: A Mystery	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Charming mystery, characters, and interesting history	Returned from the wars in Africa, Captain Harry Cathcart has retired to his (low-cost) club and is well behind on paying his friend and acting-gentleman's gentleman when he gets a strange request. The Earl of Hadshire is concerned that a young man has been paying court on his daughter, Lady Rose, yet no proposal has been forthcoming. Can Cathcart investigate and determine if the young man is all he seems? With this job, Cathcart launches into a career of helping hapless British aristocrats recover from social embarassment, blackmail, and other consequences of their foolish acts. For Lady Rose, however, the consequences are tragic--thanks to her impetuous announcement, everyone knows that the young man was tampering with her affections--and Lady Rose, not the young man, suffers a destroyed reputation.<br />A beautiful woman with a shady reputation becomes a target for any playboy and Edwardian England (the novel is set in 1907) has plenty of playboys. Cathcart is called in to head off embarrasment again--but even Cathcart draws the line at covering up murder. And when Lady Rose is invited to a house party in the country, deaths and disappearances start to happen too quickly to be called anything else--except by the local aristocrats who are willing to use all their powers to cover up anything that might stink of such commonness as murder.<br />Author Marion Chesney creates a charming tale that combines romantic tension (Lady Rose and Cathcart are attracted but in denial), mystery, and a look at a historical era where the British aristocracy cling to the vestiges of their Regency glories even as the rest of the world heads toward modernism and world war. Cathcart makes a fine romantic hero as well as an intriguing sleuth with Lady Rose available to provide impetuous advice and push him to extremes. Lady Rose, with her ambitions to become middle-class, support for woman's sufferage, and contempt for corsets, lives in an era where such beliefs are just possible--and is punished just as society would punish such an outrage--by being put on the shelf. Cathcart's servant and Rose's maid provide a secondary romantic interest as well as humor. I also appreciated the bolshevick police sergeant.<br />Chesney's writing draws the reader in, lets us share the romance but also the disgrace of Edwardian aristocracy, and propells a fine mystery through to its conclusions. I would be surprised if we don't see more of Lady Rose and Captain Cathcart--and look forward to the next installment.s punished just as society would punish such an outrage--by being put on the shelf. Cathcart's servant and Rose's maid provide a secondary romantic interest as well as humor. I also appreciated the bolshevick police sergeant. <br />Chesney's writing draws the reader in, lets us share the romance but also the disgrace of Edwardian aristocracy, and propells a fine mystery through to its conclusions. I would be surprised if we don't see more of Lady Rose and Captain Cathcart--and look forward to the next installment.	2003-08-13
1014622:US	49115690	RP2JINOR1UJGL	0380977311	277325411	Exit Wounds (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 11)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Possibly the best yet in the series	Sheriff Joanna Brady has her hands full with an election campaign, unexpected pregnancy, and her house-husband Butch's frustrating career as a novelist. But when a woman is killed and her seventeen dogs die in the woman's non-air-conditioned trailer, Brady is plunged into mystery. The first murder is followed by two more--with the same weapon signature. But the deeper Brady digs, the uglier she things look. The dead woman was already a victim--of child abuse so severe it made her incapable of holding a steady job and turned her into a hoarder for dogs. Brady swears she'll find the killer, but can any punishment be enough for what has happened?<br />Author J. A. Jance writes a compelling and exciting mystery shot-through with authentic visions of the desert mountains of Arizona. Brady is well developed as a character--with a rich but complicated family life and the drive to serve as sheriff. A subplot involving a SUV crash that killed a number of undocumented aliens being smuggled across the border from Mexico deepens the story and adds emotional depth.<br />J. A. Jance has written a series of novels featuring Sheriff Joanna Brady and EXIT WOUNDS may be the best I've read so far. I couldn't put the book down and was practicaly out of breath when I finished it. EXIT WOUNDS may be read independently of the other books in the series.	2003-08-12
1015028:US	49115690	R2K41L612WLLRB	0446528714	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2	Books	2	2	8	N	N	High concept but mixed execution	Author Kevin J. Anderson writes on a huge tapestry. His multi-character novel travels from earth (where King Peter snipes at the Hanse leadership), to the planet of the world-tree, to the asteroid factories of the roamers to the huge Ildira empire where priestess Nira is held captive in a weird alien breeding project. Meanwhile, the strange robots of the extinct Khikiss race continue to plot their way to power.<br />A FOREST OF STARS is a high-potential and high-concept story. Multiple races, sub-species of humans, elemental aliens, and vast spaceships clash while powerful economic forces wrok their way out. Unfortunately, Anderson's writing style is clunky with vast paragraphs of narrative reminding the reader of what they already know. Indeed, the entire first half of the book can beneficially be skimmed as nothing significant happens beyond recap of the events of HIDDEN EMPIRE.<br />Scientifically curious readers will also wonder about strange weapons that can shoot cold rays (isn't cold an absence of energy), and spaceships that can destroy entire moons yet have to close to within a few hundred yards of a planet to destroy a tree. It is also odd that the hydrogues are so easily destroyed by suicide--why not just make a lot of ships and suicide them by remote control?<br />A FOREST OF STARS is interesting and worth the read--but also disappointing for the way it falls short of its promise.	2003-08-11
1016548:US	49115690	R2HJAE6GPGLT22	0373169825	333833759	Cowboy Enchantment: Rancho Encantado (Harlequin American Romance, No 982)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming and creative	When her sister insists that Erica Strong take a makeover vacation, Erica reluctantly takes the time from her job as an investment banker--she's always had a fantasy about a cowboy lover and a makeover ranch sounds like the perfect time to fulfil that fantasy. Handsome cowboy Hank seems to fit the bill, even though he comes with a baby and Erica has never been a baby kind of person. In fact, Erica has never been the pretty kind either.<br />Hank doesn't find Erica simply pretty, he's blow away by the woman. And Hank had been pretty resistant to women. Of course, what Erica doesn't know is that Hank has a secret--a secret that means that her simple fantasy may backfire--or turn into a lot more than a fling.<br />Author Pamela Browing takes the familiar hooks of mistaken identity and matchmaking and makes them fresh and new. The matchmaking ghost-priest is a cute touch, accompanied as he is by a talking cat who can use his voice but doesn't always say what the priest wants him to. Erica and Hank are both sympathetic and interesting characters trying to make their way through a life that has, so far, fallen far short of their fantasies. The matching fantasies is also a cute touch.	2003-08-10
1017079:US	49115690	R37C7UP701HVAZ	1551666731	427563954	Home Before Dark	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Excellent and emotionally satisfying	Losing her sight, Jessie Ryder returns to the home that she left fifteen years before--and to the daughter she left, adopted by her sister, Luz. Jessie has been a photographer, taking pictures of the world, rescued from her mistakes by her sister, but her sister can't rescue her from blindness. Jessie intends to see her daughter, visit her sister, and then vanish again. She doesn't count on meeting a handsome pilot with a story of his own, or on her daughter Lile's decision to sneak out of the house for a night of joy-riding. When she must leave, the pain is more than she can stand--still, Jessie leaves, it defines who she is.<br />Dusty Matlock lost his pregnant wife but kept her on life support until their child, a wonderful daughter, could be born. For two years, he's retreated into himself. But when the pretty photographer comes to take his pictures for an article, he feels the stirrings of desire--and love. Dusty may have lost his love, but he isn't the kind of man to swear off love for a lifetime--and what he feels for Jessie is the real thing. Of course, the onset of Jessie's blindness is a secret--will Dusty be able to survive another terrible blow?<br />Author Susan Wiggs turns up the emotional intensity with this gripping story. Jessie is believable and thee-dimensional as the woman who sees herself as trouble, runs from her problems, yet who has punished herself more than anyone can. Luz is interesting and an apt counterpart to Jessie's flamboyance (three tattoos?). Dusty breaks the stereotype of romance heros by being confident of his emotions and certain of what he wants. Jessie's blindness is handled sensitively and realistically as she deals with the loss of this critical sense, the loss of her career, and the realization of all that she lost by walking away from her daughter at birth.<br />Susan Wiggs is a wonderful author who seems to grow stronger with each novel. HOME BEFORE DARK is an important achievement. Highly Recommended.	2003-08-09
1019388:US	49115690	R24I1HV3EZLPUD	0373245556	111498353	Daniel's Desire (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1555)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Emotionally satisfying. Works surprisingly well.	Years before, Daniel Devaney had broken Molly Creighton's heart when he told her that he wouldn't be their baby's father. She has blamed him for her miscarriage ever since. But when a teen runaway comes into Molly's life, there is no way she can keep her ex-boyfriend out. He is responsible for the case and intends to bring the teen home unless he can find evidence of abuse.<br />Author Sherryl Woods milks emotional intensity from the lost relationship between Daniel and Molly, Kendra's teen angst, and especially the mystery of Daniel's parents who abandoned Daniel's older brothers as children.<br />DANIEL'S DESIRE shouldn't work. The core conflict between Molly and Daniel is too easily resolved, Kendra's problem is created only by both Kendra and her parents refusing to talk about something that should not have been a secret, and the explanation of the Delanay abandonment was, to me at least, worse than no explanation at all. Still, Woods manages to make the story hang together and keep the reader cheering for Molly and all of the Delaneys to get their acts together.	2003-08-07
1019605:US	49115690	R1HXE6OXO1IQZG	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Sexy and emotionally satisfying	Demigod Julian of Macedon has been cursed, tormented in a halfway life that makes him a love slave for one woman after another, each for a month. When her friend talks her into summoning a lover, Grace Alexander finally goes along--but the last thing she needs is a man who will love her and abandon her--as did the man who took her virginity years before. Things would be simple if only she didn't find Julian so attractive--and so noble.<br />Julian can't understand a woman who feeds him, talks to him, lets him out of her bedroom, and won't even have sex with him. But not having sex is simply not an option. As the month they have together goes by, he'll grow more and more insane. But his brother Eros/Cupid tells him that the curse can only be broken if he waits--and he cannot wait.<br />Even if she can free him from his curse, Grace knows that she can never have Julian for her own. However things turn out for him, for her, the only possible outcome is loss and loneliness.<br />Author Sherrilyn Kenyon writes a sexy and compelling paranormal story. Julian is an attractive tortured hero (although a bit anachronistic as a pre-Christian whose favorite curse is a corruption of Jesus). Cupid's appearance as a biker is charming.<br />FANTASY LOVER takes the fantasy of a male love slave and gives it an emotional depth. It's a great read.	2003-08-07
1020127:US	49115690	R3FJXRBK7WXWUJ	0743244001	120486672	Dead for Life: A Novel (Black, Ethan)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Powerful--best mystery of year	New York police detective Conrad Voorst plans on spending his birthday with his girlfriend (or maybe with his beautiful cousin-by-marriage) but a call from the commissioner changes that. A woman has been murdered and the killer left a message blaming Voorst and promising three more deaths before midnight. Voorst is in trouble with the department--trouble he can avoid only if he can solve the crime and prevent more killing. But the killer is smart and has been planning this day for a long time--ever since the death of his son brought him back from near-death to strike back at all of those who destroyed his life and are working to destroy the city he loves.<br />DEAD FOR LIFE details one day in the life of Voorst and of the killer. Each is well motivated and strangely sympathetic. Both are deeply flawed but have admirable intentions. Author Ethan Black's strong writing leaves us hoping for an impossible result--that both can somehow be vindicated. Black's pacing pulls the reader in and, in my case at least, demanded late-night reading because I simply could not put the book down.	2003-08-07
1037294:US	49115690	RE3EAQXQ4HXTT	0060005556	187103372	Last to Die (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Solid and entertaining	When his best friend and ex-client Theo asks him to represent his brother Tatum, lawyer Jack Swyteck doesn't really have a choice. Tatum is a former contract killer who swears that he's moved on to leg-breaking. But when Tatum is named as an heir in a strange will left by a murdered beauty, he knows he needs a lawyer.<br />The will leaves 48 million dollars to one of six people--whichever one remains alive last. Under some circumstances, that could mean that the money will be a long time coming. But 48 million dollars is enough to tempt someone to take shortcuts. That someone might just be Jack's client--but Jack trusts Theo and Theo is willing to alibi his brother.<br />Finding the truth takes Jack from his home in Miami to Africa and back but boils down to the simple question--why did murdered Sally Flemming leave all of her money to the people she hated--and why did she name exactly these six? If Jack wants to survive, he'll need to know the answer.<br />Author James Grippando pursues an intriguing story line. Ordinary people will do strange things for mega-millions. And some of the people inheriting (including client Tatum) are anything but ordinary. I would have liked to see more of the reactions from the innocent but greedy victims, but Grippando delivers an exciting story. Grippando's strong writing keeps the reader engrossed. LAST TO DIE isn't a masterpiece, but it is a solid and well written adventure.	2003-07-24
1040294:US	49115690	R3FQQYE76INH1E	0060514930	171600846	Dead Ringer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good emotion, some flaws detract	Lawyer Bennie Rosato thinks she's in trouble when a big client declares bankruptcy--leaving her in the lurch. She discovers what trouble really is when she's arrested for stealing and accused of drunken behavior in front of the judges that control so much of her life. Bennie knows the problem--her twin sister is acting up. What she doesn't know is what to do about it or how to pay her bills. When a huge potential case walks into her office, things briefly look up--but she's up against fierce lawyers, and those are the ones on her side.<br />Author Lisa Scottoline combines legal tension with a sassy female-on-the-prowl. Bennie is a sympathetic heroine as she deals with her guilt over having abandoned her sister, her fears that she will lose the law firm that she has worked so hard to build, and with her fears as one of her clients is murdered.<br />For me, one of the benefits of a legal thriller is seeing the legal process and legal mind at work. Scottoline gave us a taste of this with the meetings with the other lawyers interested in the class action lawsuit. Yet, Bennie's instant credulity over Robert St. Amien's story about an antitrust agreement (it is certainly possible but wouldn't she want to investigate, find whether the trade association denied the accusations, learn if there were other witnesses who were willing to confirm St. Amien's story), and the coincidence that other lawyers would so quickly respond to the case when St. Amien was supposedly the only foreign manufacturer who actually heard the plot (or did the Americans blab to everyone?). I would also have liked to see a stronger motivation for Bennie's twin sister, Alice. Her anger seems excessive, and the resolution of the conflict between the sisters a little contrived. Still, there were moments of real emotional truth as the two sisters struggled toward an understanding of one another--an understanding that each knew could be destructive.	2003-07-21
1041039:US	49115690	R31XKLC5IXPZLB	0786711108	912455898	Death and the Jubilee: A Novel (Lord Francis Powerscourt Murder Mysteries)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent historical mystery/suspense	When an aging German banker is found, his body decapitated, hands severed, Lord Francis Powerscourt is called into action. Powerhouse has developed a reputation as an investigator but this case is bigger than anything he has tackled. A vast conspiracy to destroy the British Empire threatens England's place in the world. Germans and Irish republicans combine to threaten Queen Victoria--and the institutions that British power rests upon. Before his investigation is complete, Powerscourt will be shot at several times, develop interest in early arson research, and put his own wife at risk.<br />Author David Dickinson draws a convincing picture of Britain at the end of the 19th century. Victoria nears the end of her long reign and the entire Empire prepares to celebrate her jubilee. Yet already, Germany (still allied with Britain at this time) sees its place as the dominant nation of the world and views Britain as its primary threat.<br />Powerscourt makes a sympathetic protagonist. He is clever enough to make a difference, willing to throw himself into the investigation, and very much in love with his wife and family. Scenes where Powerscourt plays cricket or visits his tutor add depth to this interesting character. His curiosity about arson plays into the story and also shows the type of talent that makes Powerscourt an effective investigator.<br />Dickinson introduces enough subplots to keep up reader interest. Even minor characters such as Dominick Knox of the Irish Office tantilize the reader interest. Unlike GOOD NIGHT SWEET PRINCE, the earlier novel in this series, DEATH AND THE JUBILEE is conservative rather than questioning of authority. Both novels are definitely worth the read.	2003-07-21
1041359:US	49115690	R1C7P1G9OKIXCJ	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	hero to die for	Dageus MacKeltar is a 16th century highlander now living in New York and haunted by the souls of thirteen evil druids. When Dageus violated the compact between Keltar and the Tuatha De (god/fairy creatures from Celtic legend), the druids vanished thousands of years ago gained partial freedom--in Dageus's mind. Each time he works his magic, they grow stronger. Soon, they will take over his body and plunge the world into chaos. Dageus has vowed to hold them off and continually researches ancient Celtic knowledge for a hint of the means by which he can regain his freedom.<br />Chloe Zanders is a museum curator with one of the documents Dageus wants. When she enters his penthouse, she is attracted to the perfectly preserved ancient artifacts that litter it. The two are instantly attracted by Chloe is a virgin and promises herself that she won't be just another notch on Dageus's bedpost.<br />Author Karen Marie Moning writes convincingly of Dageus's rapid descent into darkness--a descent that can be slowed but not stopped by the frequent sex that Chloe is denying him. A time travel segment puts the two characters back into medieval Scotland, letting the reader enjoy a reunion between Dageus and his father. Moning's action sequences are exciting and convincing.<br />Dageus is a powerful character who, in this reviewer's opinion, deserves more than Chloe whose major claim to fame seems to be her application of the 'rules' in denying sex until she gets a commitment. Other than the obvious physical chemistry, it's hard to see why Dageus choses her as his unique woman. Admittedly the story is about magic, but the heroine should contribute more to the story than Chloe does.<br />I'd be interested in other writer's opinions, but I also thought that the solution to Dageus's dilemna was a bit deus ex machina (literally).<br />Flaws aside, Karen Marie Moning delivers hot sex, exciting action, and a hero to die for. A pretty strong combination.	2003-07-21
1041395:US	49115690	R1KDGAAL3DFHE2	0399150552	587458220	McNally's Dare (Sanders, Lawrence)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Charming and human	When a waiter is found dead in the swimming pool during a millionaire-intense tennis fund raiser, Archie McNally, all-around investigator to the rich and snobby, is called into action. Clients come quickly and Archie isn't too proud to take them all. But does everyone really want him to find the killer, or is someone hiding a deadly secret?<br />Archie moves through Palm Beach society, sipping martinis with muckraking authors, exchanging bon-mots with billionaires, and dating beautiful Georgia while still lusting after the lost Connie. Archie making a charming character. He is fixated with his own appearance, sexist to the extreme, frequently contemptuous of those around him (especially of Binky who returns Archie's scorn with love and disloyalty), yet manages to stay sympathetic. Author Vincent Lardo humanizes Archie in McNALLY'S DARE by making Georgia feisty, by a cute scene when Archie's trunks are too large for hunky billionaire Lance Talbot, and by reminding the reader that Archie does still live with his parents.<br />Those seeking a quick-witted private investigator with an attitude, a way with women (if not quite as much so as he would like to believe) and a clever setting amongst the billionaires of Palm Beach will definitely want to pick up the latest in the McNally series.	2003-07-21
1049682:US	49115690	R28RIPG1WO3ZHH	0312872186	42121260	Saturn	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable SF story	Holly Lane loves her sister Pancho, but she needs to find her own way and man's first voyage to Saturn looks like the perfect opportunity. Besides, Holly has fallen in love with the human resources director, Malcom Eberly and she'd follow Eberly anywhere. What Holly doesn't know is that New Morality, the theocratic government that has taken over running Earth, has decided to ensure that the freedom-loving and anarchistic scientists and engineers on the Saturn mission don't take too many freedoms. Morality will be preserved no matter what the cost, and Holly Lane's innocence, or even her life, is a small price to pay.<br />Author Ben Bova creates a fascinating near-future. Man has reached for the planets and moons, but Earth still holds much of the power and Earth is afraid of the future. Watching Eberly take control of the mission while he is simultaneously professing a great faith in freedom (to be surrendered only in times of emergency) is interesting and Bova makes it convincing.<br />SATURN is part of a continuing series of Ben Bova stories about Pancho Lane and the rebels who have created a future when most of humanity was running from it. Fans of the series will be pleased to see a combination of new characters and old favorites. SATURN may be read independently without any loss of enjoyment.	2003-07-14
1050275:US	49115690	R2794J3L6W7V2Z	0316591122	848130165	Fear Itself: A Fearless Jones Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very strong and enjoyable	Fearless Jones is Paris Minton's best friend but that doesn't mean that Paris looks forward to Fearless at the door. Fearless always brings trouble and this time is no exception. Fearless is looking for the father of a little boy--but the search soon turns up murder. Even more dangerous for an African-American in 1950s Watts, the murdered people are white.<br />As Paris and Fearless investigate, it seems that everyone wants to give Paris money. He's not opposed to money, but he's wise enough to know that money comes with strings attached--enough string to hang him.<br />Author Walter Mosley provides a telling look into the racism and fear that constituted Los Angeles in the 1950s and that still prevades much of society. Paris, the narrator, makes a convincing character. He is fearful, small, and greedy. Fearless, in contrast, is, uh, fearless. Paris likes to think of himself as much smarter than Fearless, but his smarts lands him in trouble while Fearless's inate honesty keeps him (mostly) safe. Of course it doesn't hurt either of them that Fearless is fast with his hands and can't remember losing a fight.<br />FEAR ITSELF has something of a film-noire quality. There are enough characters and suspects that it's easy to get confused but the strong narrative and stronger characters kept me entranced. FEAR is a sequel to FEARLESS JONES but stands completely separate and can be read independently. This is a highly professional and enjoyable work. Mosley's writing is compelling and smooth. His historical setting is fascinating, and his characters are complex.	2003-07-14
1051560:US	49115690	R1R57QUMQRICZI	0425188566	548940724	Click Here for Murder	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable computer tale with a few loose ends	When one of her staff members is killed, artificial intelligence personality Turing Hopper suspects that she may also be a target. The only clues are the role-playing game that the victim spent so much time playing, and his strange lack of a true identity. Turing assigned her two friends to find out more about the game and more about what Ray Santiago did before he became Ray Santiago and joined her company. What she doesn't expect is that she'll be sending her friends into danger--or that Santiago's killers just might be a threat for a bright artificial intelligence--like her.<br />Author Donna Andrews does an excellent job making computer crime approachable, using non-technical language and humanizing her computer-program protagonist (as well as providing a couple of very human sidekicks). Turing's concerns about turning into HAL (from 2001) and worries about following the law and respecting privacy add to reader safety. The role-playing game that Andrews describes is also believable, even as it spills out from the computer into the real-world of Washington D.C. Andrews is a skilled writer and provides a page-turning thrill-ride.<br />Although I liked Turing (despite her occasional descents into self-appraisal, I found sidekick Maude a little harder to like. Her moonlighting for Turing's company sounded unethical to me. Worse, she didn't seem to hesitate to shoot to kill, even when she wasn't fully aware of the situation. Nor did she seem to suffer any ethical consequences after she'd actually killed. The hints at the use of games for pedophilia also struck an incongruous note. Although this was an important justification for Santiago's initial involvement, Andrews should either have made this a bigger element or left it out.<br />CLICK HERE FOR MURDER isn't a perfect story, but it is a well written and entertaining adventure. The use of an artificial intelligence character creates an enjoyable alternate spin to the usual mystery novel and Andrews develops this story line convincingly, in a way that will be enjoyable both to computer professionals and to those who remain a bit concerned about the role of computers in our lives.story line convincingly, in a way that will be enjoyable both to computer professionals and to those who remain a bit concerned about the role of computers in our lives.	2003-07-12
1052241:US	49115690	R2SO4EQFTNARAQ	1893224570	958916732	Moon Over Manhattan: Mystery and Mayhem	Books	3	0	0	N	N	True (but mostly unlikable) New York characters	Arthur Vandameer is a liberal hypocrite, preaching his causes on television while living an elitist life at home. His teenaged daughter, Allison, comes up with a strategy to overcome his plans to send her to Harvard--she'll pretend to elope with Goonie--one of the many annoyances she cultivates simply to frustrate her father. Her plan goes wrong when Goonie misses his appointment, Allison takes up with a con-man wanna be, and right-wing reporter Charlie Moon comes to interview Arthur only to find Arthur's life unravelling.<br />MOON OVER MANHATTAN is a sort of paean to New York's eccentricity. All of the characters are over the top as they pursue selfish and frequently self-destructive goals. When the entire cast of the novel ends up on the set of Arthur's television show, the scene is set for an explosion of epic proportions--which does happen although in a way that might surprise.<br />Authors Larry King and Thomas H. Cook keep the novel moving forward with smooth writing and cruel humor. The ordinary people are portrayed as idiots (as in the con-man's wife disguises herself as a gigantic peanut to track her husband), liberal Arthur as a paranoid hypocrite, and right-wing Charlie as a paranoid who can't get it up.<br />In its even-handed insults, MOON OVER MANHATTAN reflects at least some of the realities of New York. In the Foreword, Larry King writes that he was inspired by the events of 9/11. I think MOON misses the mark a bit if it's intended to portray characters as likable.	2003-07-12
1053191:US	49115690	R93K2WB3140F2	0743236882	763547183	The Mistress of Alderley: A Novel of Suspense (Barnard, Robert)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	well written, interesting mystery, uninvolving characters	For retired actress Caroline Fawley, he was the great love of her life. Admittedly, he was still married, but Caroline knew that she was his true love. Although Marius Fleetwood could only see her on weekends, he acted the part of father to her children, accompanied her to social events, and even included his own children on the trips. Caroline believed that the people in her village were simply old-fashioned when they urged her to seek marriage. For her, being a mistress was the perfect solution.<br />When Marius is found murdered, Caroline's perfect fantasy comes apart. The English police investigate, tracking down the activities of each of her family members, and the terrible truth begins to emerge. Marius lied to Caroline--and was planning a complete betrayal. The police are almost certain that Caroline was unaware of the betrayal, but someone certainly killed Marius.<br />Author Robert Barnard paints a very English scene with polite cops who have plenty of time to pursue the most trivial leads. Barnard's writing is highly engaging, drawing the reader into the story. The tone of the story shifts at the murder. Before, it was mostly Caroline's story. After the murder, it becomes that of Detective Sergeant Peace and Mike Oddie.<br />Barnard's decision to base so much of the book on Caroline and Caroline's point of view weakens the reader's involvement with the characters of the police, consequently detracting from reader interest. Caroline might be a perfectly nice person, but she spends the first half the book in emotional denial and never really develops any strong motivation. As a reader, I want a character who is striving for something (which is normally perfect for a police mystery since the police are struggling to find the killer), but Caroline wasn't really looking for anything.<br />Barnard's writing is strong enough to sustain reader interest despite his decision to focus on an unmotivated character, however. THE MISTRESS OF ALDERLEY makes for pleasant summer reading.nt summer reading.	2003-07-11
1054566:US	49115690	R2M5WN26HWNXDD	0399150404	730257962	Deception	Books	2	2	9	N	N	uncompelling characters weaken adventure	Hannah Gray is on the run from the law after committing fraud. With a fake passport and false identity, she's on a cruise trying to escape trouble when she runs into far greater danger. One of her fellow passengers is a scientist who has discovered a formula that can create miniature black holes--and possibly destroy the planet. When the scientist's wife accidentally gives the formula (in the back of a book) to Hannah, and then the couple is killed, Hannah must somehow escape and stay ahead of the killers.<br />Government bureaucrat Jim Keyes has given his life to the secret government project. Now, so close to success, a key scientist has deserted, possibly taking his formula to the highest bidder. In the hands of a terrorist, the miniature black hole would be the ultimate weapon of complete destruction. Keyes intends to pull out all of the stops to get that formula back, even if it means killing a slightly innocent woman. Keyes has sacrificed his family and health to the project--more sacrifice doesn't scare him. What scares him is the possibility of failure.<br />Author John Altman's writing is somewhat reminiscent of John Le Carre in the morally ambivalent world of government and spies. DECEPTION almost works. If Hannah had been a little more sympathetic, the coincidence of her getting the formula a little less far-fetched, and the story provided a bit more action in the first hundred pages, I would be happy to recommend this novel strongly. Instead, DECEPTION can only be seen as interesting but flawed. Although Keyes was definitely a jerk, I spent most of the book hoping that he'd get to Hannah (although any reader would know that that wasn't going to happen). Altman may have sensed Keyes becoming too sympathetic and pushed him over the edge late in the novel, but he never got the idea that we would have to like Hannah for us to care whether she manages to escape the clutches of international terrorists and U.S. government spies (the two are often hard to tell apart) in Altman's novel.<br />DECEPTION is worth the read, but uncompelling and unsympathetic characters make it fall short of its potential.l apart) in Altman's novel. <br />DECEPTION is worth the read, but uncompelling and unsympathetic characters make it fall short of its potential.	2003-07-10
1055335:US	49115690	R2VWCR5TL9VJKT	0786868058	821838254	Cold Pursuit	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another great one from T. Jefferson Parker	When Homicide Sergeant Tom McMichael gets the call about Pete Braga's murder, he can't help feeling a bit of pleasure. The McMichaels have hated the Bragas for years, ever since Pete killed McMichael's grandfather. Still, McMichael is a cop and he intends to track down the killer. The pretty nurse looks like a good suspect--her story about buying firewood and getting all of the missing property as gifts sounds a bit suspicious. But McMichael is attracted to the nurse and his gut tells him that she's innocent. Still, does he dare go with his gut, or should he trust the evidence?<br />Author T. Jefferson Parker delivers another exciting mystery. McMichael, with his conflicted feelings toward the nurse, his ex-wife, and the victim's daughter who was his childhood sweetheart and is single again, makes a strong and sympathetic character. A second case, involving smuggling contraband from Mexico adds complexity to the plot without taking the focus from Pete's murder. The nasty cops from internal affairs, sticking their noses into other cop's business feel authentic.<br />When I read my first T. Jefferson Parker book (see our review of THE BLUE HOUR) I suspected that I had found a real talent. COLD PURSUIT convinces me that I was right. It is a wonderful and authentic police thriller. Parker delivers emotional depth, thoughtful police work, and exciting action in a tightly worded package. If you haven't discovered Parker, you are in for a treat and COLD PURSUIT delivers. If you're already a fan, you won't be disappointed. COLD PURSUIT is fully up to the high standards that Parker has set for himself.	2003-07-09
1057696:US	49115690	RIPAL4N0QJNZC	0805073213	778018824	The Latest Bombshell: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great character, good understanding of D.C. politics	The Chinese have been buying more U.S. military secrets and this time the government has picked the perfect man to take the fall. Reporter Lyle Gold isn't liked by anyone, has annoyed the military on a number of occasions, and he could be the traitor. A few leaks, some political wheeling and dealing, and some post-9/11 rushing to judgement and there's no one in the country who will take Gold's case. But political consultant Kate Boothe has been out of the country. She dated Gold years before and knows that he didn't care enough about money to sell his country for more. She doesn't realize the extent to which the nation needs Gold as a scapegoat for everything that has gone wrong and agrees to work for him. What she doesn't realize is that too many people have a stake in Gold's guilt--and are prepared to take whatever steps necessary to make sure that no one raises too many questions.<br />Author Michele Mitchell knows her Washington D.C. politics. The who-do-you-know and where can you take me atmosphere of D.C. comes through solidly. She also grasps our national intolerance for uncertainty. If the Pentagon says Gold is guilty, only a traitor would believe him innocent--right? More importantly, though, Mitchell writes a compelling story. Kate Boothe is a sympathetic heroine, with her fears that her boyfriend has abandoned her for the latest blonde, her concerns over what her mother will think when political operatives taint her as a ..., and outright fear when the IRS breaths down her neck after being unleashed by an aggressive White House.<br />Warning--THE LATEST BOMBSHELL has little sympathy for talk radio, Attorneys General who take their guidance from the Old Testament rather than from the U.S. Constitution, or those who believe that our basic rights must be thrown away to protect Americanism. Even if you don't like the politics, though, the novel is worth reading for its insights into the way the U.S. government is run--and for its intriguing lead character. Very nice.Very nice.	2003-07-07
1057982:US	49115690	R3GFTDF9UOYP95	0345448944	854576175	The Gates of Dawn (The Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 2)	Books	2	28	33	N	N	clunky and frustrating	His nation virtually destroyed, Prince Tristan wishes only to rebuild. But his own son has gained impossible power and now drains the very magic that supports the world's sorceries. Aided only by two wizzards and his sister, Tristran is virtually helpless against the powerful magic that the once-dead and now alive Nicholas can bring to bear. Nicholas has subverted the league of wizards that are supposed to help the people and Tristran, posted a huge reward for Tristan's capture, and is ahead of Tristran and his wizards at every step. It doesn't help that Tristran can't trust even the two wizards who support him. They think nothing of keeping secrets from him--mostly for no apparent reason.<br />Author Robert Newcomb delivers an intriguing magic system based on the mystically imbued blood that certain people have. The concept of blood magic is well developed and interesting. Nicholas and his assistants, poisoned Ragnar and assassin Scrounge are strong and sympathetic. Each has suffered at the hands of Tristran and the system that has brought him to power.<br />THE GATES OF DAWN suffers from three problems: First, Newcomb's writing is ponderous. Characters spend too much time thinking, remembering, discussing ad nauseum, and not enough time actually doing things. This is expecially true in the first half the book but continues to the end. Second, Tristran's wizards keep too much secret from Tristran. This feels like an artifice--constructed to keep the reader in doubt rather than something that flows naturally from the story. As a result, Tristran seems like a manipulated child rather than a heroic character. Third, the resolution is terrible. Essentially, if Tristran and friends had headed to Las Vegas and gambled, the end wouldn't have been changed. All of the plotting, near-death experiences, and acts of bravery are so much wasted time. Reading nearly five hundred pages only to find out that it didn't matter is a frustrating experience.	2003-07-07
1060198:US	49115690	R2ADQ6XA19I3TQ	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Emotionally compelling, exciting. Highly recommended	Vampires are out of the closet in America, but a large fraction of the population wishes that they'd go back. When a vampire goes missing in Dallas, waitress and mind-reader Sookie Stackhouse and her vampire boyfriend Bill are summoned from Louisianna to Dallas to see if they can solve the mystery. Sookie's mindreading only takes her so far. And when she begins to investigate, she puts herself in terrible danger from the fellowship--a group of 'humans' who preach the extermination of the vampire kind. Her vampire support is only available at night so Sookie is on her own in a horribly unfriendly city. Meanwhile, back home in Bon Temps, Louisianna, a gay cook has been killed and Sookie needs to get to the bottom of that as well.<br />Author Charlaine Harris provides a combination of exciting adventure, mystery, and emotional depth. Sookie is powerfully sympathetic as she struggles with the differences between herself and the vampire she loves. Sookie's brief relationship with the ancient teenaged vampire, Godfrey, was especially moving. Harris makes her novel especially convincing with small-town details like the high school football game which the entire city of Bon Temps turns out to watch (if you don't come from a small town, you might not understand how completely true this is) and the famous chocolate cake--details that add richness to a fine story.<br />LIVING DEAD IN DALLAS is the second in the Southern Vampire series. If anything, Harris's writing is getting stronger as the series progresses.	2003-07-05
1060245:US	49115690	R1ZRYXS7WRL0IT	0749005335	547091057	Little Girl Lost (Gregory Summers Series)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Involving but too much coincidence	A little girl, Emilia, has vanished and the police are looking for her social worker. But the girl's family is also suspicious--her father has recently been released from a mental institution and her step-mother is nobody's idea of a kind and gentle soul. Or could Emilia's former foster parents have decided to reclaim the daughter they hoped to adopt for their own? Superintendent Gregory Summers, together with assistant Barbara and new deputy Megan Davies must track down the evidence, all the while hoping that the little girl is only lost--that no one has killed a child.<br />Author Susan Kelly writes convincingly of troubled families, and all of the families in LITTLE GIRL LOST are troubled indeed. Summers is having an affair with his ex-daughter-in-law, a woman twenty years his junior. Davies has recently separated from her husband and is now dealing with her father's increasing dementia. Step-mother Concepta worries that Roger married her only to satisfy the social workers that he could provide a secure home--and that she'll be left behind as well if Emilia is truly gone. Kelly's writing involves the reader in these troubled characters, making us care that their problems are resolved.<br />In solving the mystery, Kelly relies far to heavily on coincidence. It seems that Summers or Davies need merely meet a minor character to be certain that that character will soon provide valuable clues. While the police do luck into evidence all of the time, it hardly makes for a compelling mystery when so much of the evidence shows up through stumbling around rather than through hard work. How likely is it, for example, that Davies's demented father just happen to wander through a field where a body was buried and that he be stopped by a crazed woman in that very field, just so the police could find the body? Unfortunately, LITTLE GIRL LOST is simply filled with this type of detecting--pulling the reader out of what is otherwise a very satisfying read.	2003-07-05
1062758:US	49115690	R1D4VEX72I5U43	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Please bring back Native American culture	When a man is found killed on Jim Chee's reservation, the FBI swoops in and D.C. headquarters determines it a hunting accident. Chee doesn't think so, but he doesn't know where to take it until he gets a letter from Bernie Manuelito--now a border patrol officer. Bernie has seen strange things on the border but when her boss takes her picture and then that picture shows up in drug runners' offices, she knows she is in trouble. She may value her independence, but she knows when she's in over her head and she is. With a little help from Lt. Joe Leaphorn, Chee untangles a mystery that involves a missing $40 billion of Bureau of Indian Affairs royalty money and the U.S./Mexico drug smuggling business. Whether he'll unravel the clues in time to save Bernie is another question.<br />Tony Hillerman fans will be overjoyed to see a new mystery featuring the wonderful Chee and Leaphorn. Both men are still struggling with their love interests, unable to quite put things together, suddenly inarticulate in the presence of the women they love. THE SINISTER PIG takes the mystery largely off the reservation and so misses out on the Native American culture and religion that provides such a depth to many of Hillerman's earlier Chee and Leaphorn novels.<br />Hillerman is cynical about the war on drugs, recognizing that its biggest supporters include the smugglers themselves--criminals who would be out of business if drugs were legalized and who are willing to do virtually anything to prevent this disaster. As always in Hillerman novels, the FBI is treated as incompetent and corrupt at the D.C. level, even as it sends its most talented agents into the hinterland. Hillerman also takes a dig at the Department of Homeland Security, recognizing that adding a layer of bureaucracy may not be the best way to improve safety.<br />Hillerman's strong writing makes this short mystery a page turner. Fans will want to read it even as they hope that Hillerman will return to the Native American culture that makes many of his earlier novels so powerful.e that makes many of his earlier novels so powerful.	2003-07-03
1064592:US	49115690	R39RTIZT437CQ2	0060504129	311529941	Die in Plain Sight: A Novel of Suspense (Lowell, Elizabeth)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Hot sex, obvious mystery	When painter Lacey Quinn takes some of her grandfather's paintings to famous artist Susa, she hopes to hear that the old man's work had merit. Instead she finds that her grandfather was a forger. Forgeries or not, though, someone wants those painting--especially the paintings showing violent deaths. When handsome bodyguard/art appraiser Ian Lapstrake shows up--chemistry flares between himself and Lacey. He knows that she is hiding a secret--but what he doesn't know is that that secret is about to put both of them into serious trouble.<br />With incredible luck, Lacey, Ian, and Susa end up painting at the same exact spot where a fatal car accident once took place--and it turns out that the 'accident' was the subject of one of grandfather's paintings--except that in the painting, it was murder. And someone is willing to do anything to get their hands on that murder painting, even if it means murdering again.<br />Author Elizabeth Lowell blends sex with intrigue to keep the reader turning pages. An excessive reliance on coincidence, the hackneyed rich family who runs the local police department plot, protagonists who won't guess what the reader will guess by page twenty, and a fundamentally implausible story line weaken the novel, however. As long as Lacey and Ian are in bed--or in painting table or anywhere else making love--the story flies. When it comes to mystery, there isn't much there.	2003-07-02
1065093:US	49115690	RVPWXABTXKGJ7	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Interesting, sexy, violent, but flawed	Anita Blake is trying to put some balance in her life, but things seem to keep getting worse. Werewolf-boyfriend Richard is still sulking about not getting Anita to himself. Anita is happy with vampire-boyfriend Jean-Claude, but Jean-Claude's alter-ego, Asher, wants in on teh Anita Blake action. He was content to wait until their master-vampire, Belle Morte decides to call Asher home. Anita can either add Asher to her lover list, or lose him entirely. Richard won't be happy. Vampire politics are bad enough, but a serial killer appears to be operating in the area--a killer that Anita believes can only be a were. She could really use Richard's help on this one, but the police aren't even sure that they can trust her.<br />The Anita Blake stories have been getting progressively bloodier as the series progresses and CERULEAN SINS is no exception. The graphic descriptions of the serial killer's work are disgusting but appropriate for the subject, deeping the horror that Anita faces and making it clear that she has no choice. The violence associated with Anita's sexual appetites will put some readers off--but it just might be what others are looking for.<br />CERULEAN SINS parallels two subplots--that dealing with the internal politics of the vampires and the threatened rise of the mother of darkness, and that dealing with the serial killer. The two subplots are only loosely connected thematically, and not at all connected from a plot perspective. Thus the novel sometimes appears disjointed. I would have preferred to see a closer link between the two major story elements.<br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton is completely convincing in her description of vampires and were-creatures, in the subculture that they create and in the ambiguous (at best) feelings that they create in others. Her heroine, Anita Blake, is refreshingly cynical about the government without having given up on it. I found that some of the clothing descriptions went on a bit, but fans may enjoy the richly detailed imagery.<br />Fans of this series will find a lot to like. Anita continues to mature, struggling with the realization that the simple rules that once guided her are not longer enough. Richard, the deeply damaged were-leader represents what Anita would have become if she hadn't changed--and the destruction he creates in his pack is a microcosm of what Anita could create in the larger preternatural community. Still, each loss of innocence has its costs and Anita must pay those costs in full--often sexually, and always violently.detailed imagery. <br />Fans of this series will find a lot to like. Anita continues to mature, struggling with the realization that the simple rules that once guided her are not longer enough. Richard, the deeply damaged were-leader represents what Anita would have become if she hadn't changed--and the destruction he creates in his pack is a microcosm of what Anita could create in the larger preternatural community. Still, each loss of innocence has its costs and Anita must pay those costs in full--often sexually, and always violently.	2003-07-01
1067019:US	49115690	R2ZAAB8FC6YUHI	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Enjoyable treat	Sookie Stackhouse isn't a fang-banger, but when a handsome vampire walks into the bar where she works, she can't help the attraction. Especially since his is one of the few minds she can't read. Since she can't help reading minds when she touches someone, sex hasn't been easy before--but with the vampire, anything is possible. Of course, a vampire is different and Sookie isn't sure she can deal with the amoral violence that Bill the Vampire deals out.<br />When vampire lovers start to die in Bon Temps, Louisiana, Sookie wonders whether she'll be the next victim. Her mind-reading ability doesn't point to anyone and the police have settled on her brother. Bill is certainly willing to defend her, but he's only available after dark, and he brings his own problems, including a hungry senior vampire named Eric who insists on coming into Sookie's life. Somehow, Sookie has to get to the bottom of the killings, save her brother from the police, end the increasing hatred between vampires and the human, and manage to stay alive at the same time.<br />Author Charlaine Harris combines smooth and compelling writing with exciting world-building and a well-constructed mystery. There are plenty of red herrings, some exciting action scenes, and a thoughtful look at the way people deal with new and scary things (like vampires). DEAD UNTIL DARK is an enjoyable treat.	2003-06-30
1068987:US	49115690	RKMIOLCQ2BLU	0312276567	674786880	Restored to Death: A Judge Jackson Crain Mystery	Books	2	4	4	N	N	mystery doesn't quite work	When his sister-in-law is murdered and his brother-in-law identified as lead suspect, Judge Jackson Crain decides he has to investigate. Ron just isn't the type to brutally murder a woman--even a woman as cruel as Dora. When a second woman is killed, Ron would seem to be off the hook, but Post Oak, Texas is a small town and two brutal murders is a lot. Unfortunately, his investigation seems to point the finger directly at the one person he really doesn't want to doubt, his new girlfriend.<br />Author Nancy Bell offers a charming look at small-town Texas. The gossip, religious extremism, and kindness all ring true. Bell is also convincing in her description of battered and abused women--who, sadly, seem to make up the majority of the females in this story.<br />As a mystery, RESTORED TO DEATH is only adequate. It is hard to believe that even a small-town police force would fail to follow up on the connection between the two victims. For me, the resolution was so forced that I kept looking for the last chapter--the one that explained that the supposed solution was wrong and that the real killer remained to be found. Too much of the mystery was left as coincidence and meaningless.	2003-06-28
1069755:US	49115690	R3IDZSIQF5P3Q9	0312874014	3847405	Tapping the Dream Tree	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Charming modern folk tales--convincing and emotional	A killer who reads minds, a group of young women who find pixies coming from their computers, hobs in their bookstores, and lovers in their dreams, people who sell their souls to the devil, and seven red-haired sisters who live in the forest and discover the war between the sang fairies and the bee fairies. Author Charles de Lint provides a delightful assortment of modern fairy tales. De Lint's stories are charming and fresh, dealing with authentic people rather than shallow fairy-tale heros--and with real magic.<br />TAPPING THE DREAM TREE is a wonderful collection of stand-alone stories, connected stories about the dream tree and a dream city, and a short novel of the seven sisters. This isn't a dark cyber-punk return-of-magic story, but a modern version of folk stories where fairie creatures may be powerful and beautiful, but are frequently indifferent to humans. Most of the stories are set in the countryside rather than in the city and reflect a peaceful pacing.<br />De Lint's writing paints pictures for his stories, compelling the reader without any sense of hurry. I found myself savoring the stories even though a part of me wanted to plunge on and find out what happens next. If you've read de Lint before, you know what to expect and you'll be delighted to find it. If you haven't, you're in for a treat. De Lint is a winner and TAPPING THE DREAM TREE is a powerful collection of stories that needs to be added to your must-read pile.	2003-06-27
1071946:US	49115690	R195NLNB80NETV	0765304473	288541928	Poison Blonde (The Amos Walker Series #17)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Add to your must-read list	When a beautiful singer asks private investigator Amos Walker to find evidence that her wardrobe manager sold her out, Walker takes the job--and isn't happy to find that it was only a test. Gilia Cristobal was being blackmailed--and the blackmailer has vanished. A vanished blackmailer might be good news, or it might be the worst possible news and Gilia needs to know. Because the blackmail is about illegal immigration, subversive activities, and murder. Walker is suspicious--not least because Gilia's manager is Hector Matador, a Columbian mobster and killer. Still, a job is a job and he is intrigued by the beautiful blonde and her story.<br />Author Loren D. Estleman is a master of dark mystery. The winter of Detroit, Walker's outdated tough-guy image in a changing world, and Walker's curious blend of cynicism and hope all involve the reader in the story. Estleman's compelling and powerful writing adds to the emotional charge of the story--with enough witty passages and throw-away dialogue to break up the tension and emotional darkness in the story.<br />Amos Walker makes a wonderful damaged detective--and Estleman plays him straight, with no cheating, no avoiding the pain, and no faked heroism.<br />Fans of the Amos Walker fan will add POISON BLONDE to their must-read list. Those new to Estleman or Walker have a treat to look forward to.	2003-06-26
1076257:US	49115690	R7MVI9IZMC8FR	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Complex, disturbing, but compelling	After another miserable summer, Harry Potter is briefly rescued by the Weaslys and his god-father, Sirius Black and then allowed to return to school at Hogwarts. Year five is a critical year--spent in preparation for Ordinary Wizard Level (O.W.L.) exams, but this year is worse than usual. The Ministry of Magic has decided that Harry's warnings about Voldemort are a self-indulgent attempt to attract attention and that Dumbledore has finally begun to crack with senility. A new Defense instructor, Professor Umbridge, is assigned not by Dumbledore but by the ministry itself. Umbridge quickly sets about reforming the school--with a special eye on Potter and his 'lies' about Voldemort. Worst of all, Harry's scar is acting up, signalling a greater connection between himself and Voldemort. The connection allows him to sense Voldemort's strong emotions--and sometimes to provide a warning to his friends, but the cost is incredible pain.<br />At 15, Harry is no longer the sweet child we met in the early Potter books. He's angry about being forced to spend summers with the Dursleys, angry that no one believes his warnings about Voldemort, angry that Dumbledore spends so little time with him, and generally angry at the world. Even signs that Cho might be attracted to him don't overcome the anger--especially as he generally feels and acts like a clod when he's around her.<br />Author J. K. Rowling delivers the longest and most complex Harry Potter novel yet in ORDER OF THE PHOENIX. Harry's persistent anger makes the book a little hard to get into--but seems appropriate to Harry's age and situation. He is also treated with less of the adulation he was used to. The other characters, especially Ron and Hermione, also continue to mature and deepen--becoming more than sidekicks and actual heroic counterparts to Harry.<br />ORDER OF THE PHOENIX is a transitional book--the danger that Voldemort represents is developed more fully, and Harry becomes less lucky and more aware of his own limitations, even as he becomes more powerful as a wizard. It is, however, highly satisfying, hard to put down, and an important addition to the Potter ouvre. Fans will definitely want to grab this one.  Those new to Potter will probably want to start with one of the earlier novels in the series (listed below).mitations, even as he becomes more powerful as a wizard. It is, however, highly satisfying, hard to put down, and an important addition to the Potter ouvre. Fans will definitely want to grab this one.  Those new to Potter will probably want to start with one of the earlier novels in the series (listed below).	2003-06-23
1080475:US	49115690	R3477TU7KXBRHH	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Better than average Spenser story	When a friend of his foster son Paul offers him half a dozen donuts to find out who killed her mother 28 years previously, Private Detective Spenser takes the job. It's just the kind of funky job that interests him. But when the police report turns up missing the critical FBI report, Senser suspects that there is more to the case than a simple bank robbery. When both mob and FBI enforcers warn him to back off the job, he knows that something is rotten, but he still can't get to the bottom of the case. Along with muscle from side-kick Hawk and wise philosophical advice and frequent sex from main-squeeze Susan Silverman, Spenser sets off on a case that won't bring in any money, can't result in a happy ending for anyone, and just might end up getting him, or Susan, killed.<br />Author Robert B. Parker uses witty dialogue, occasional literary illusion, and male-bonding between Spenser and Hawk to propell the story forward. Fortunately for the reader, Susan is allowed to play a minor (if annoying) role in this story providing emotional support to Spenser and validating the killing that this job requires him to make. After two decades of Spenser stories, Spenser seems little older and is still a tough guy that remembers and uses his boxing skills.<br />Parker's characterization, dialogue, and story-telling are all firing in BACK STORY. Although I found the end to be a bit anticlimactic, BACK STORY is one of the better recent Spenser novels.	2003-06-20
1080661:US	49115690	R2VA3A3IT2FLMB	0743437128	661143336	Wild Orchids: A Novel (Deveraux, Jude)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very guilty pleasure	Ford Newcombe became a best-selling author by tapping the emotions of his family--his birth family and the wonderful family that his wife brought to him. But now he has exhausted that resource and lost his wife as well. For years he's been hanging around, looking for inspiration. He thinks he may have found it when a young woman tells him a story about the devil and the woman who loved him. Devil stories are rare and Ford thinks that he can use it. With money no object, he hires the woman as a research assistant, buys a huge Victorian home in haunted Cole Creek, North Carolina, and thinks about writing.<br />Jackie Maxwell is stunned when she finds out that her fiance has stolen all of her money--stunned enough that she actually takes the job Ford offers her. She knows that she shouldn't feel any attraction toward the man who has to be twice her age, is overweight, only likes eating high-fat snack food, and hopes to vampire her story ideas into his next great novel. Still, she can't deny the evolving attraction. But she finds herself recognizing everything in Cole Creek--and begins to have visions, visions that become terribly true. She also finds herself busy spending Ford's money and liking it.<br />Jackie and Ford meander through an investigation of a long-ago murder--the death of the woman who loved the devil while denying the attraction between them.<br />Author Jude Deveraux sure can write. It is hard to sympathize with a spring/winter relationship, especially one between an athletic young women and a couch-potato man, and Ford's self-pity could grate. Yet under Deveraux's strong writing spell, I found myself glued to the story, anxious to find out if my guesses about Jackie's strange competitive love interest were right. Deveraux's snippy insights into the difference between prize-winning fiction and romance are both insightful and clever, adding to the novel's appeal.<br />Despite myself, I can't help recommending this book. Deveraux's writing is just too good to pass it up. A couple of recommendations, though--skip the self-pitying first chapter--it turned me off to Ford so strongly that I kept hoping that Jackie would dump him for the first half the book. The resolution of the devil portion of the story is weak--I can't believe the devil would have gone to all this trouble, or would have had to even put Ford and Jackie together to get his goals, but I still found myself smiling at the end. I know this is a backhanded recommendation, but I feel guilty about liking this book--but I did.o good to pass it up. A couple of recommendations, though--skip the self-pitying first chapter--it turned me off to Ford so strongly that I kept hoping that Jackie would dump him for the first half the book. The resolution of the devil portion of the story is weak--I can't believe the devil would have gone to all this trouble, or would have had to even put Ford and Jackie together to get his goals, but I still found myself smiling at the end. I know this is a backhanded recommendation, but I feel guilty about liking this book--but I did.	2003-06-20
1082266:US	49115690	R3TFYV3JAT83IQ	0743466985	150243519	The Sisters of APF: The Indoctrination of Soror Ride Dick	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sexy and liberating story	When she arrives in Washington D.C., a fresh law student who's never been out of South Dakota before, African-American Mary Ann Ferguson brings her rural morals and hangups. But R.A. Patricia Reynolds sees potential. Sexy, intelligent, and fun, Mary Ann might just be the type of woman that the secret sisterhood of APF (Alphi Phi F**kem) is looking for. APF helps African-American women develop self-confidence and leadership abilities, runs a successful investment club, and also holds monthly 'freak nights' where the sisters round up strangers for a theme-party orgy.<br />Mary Ann has a lot of growing to do before she's ready for APF or for the challenges of being a big-city lawyer. Dreamboat 3rd year law student Trevor Ames is instantly attracted to Mary Ann, but he isn't much in the sack department and he doesn't seem to want to give up on Fe Fe as a stand-in. Then there's Mary Ann's ex-boyfriend back in South Dakota. Most critical, though, are Mary Ann's sexual hangups--hangups that prevent her from having a truly free and enjoyable sexual experience. Until she can enjoy sex for herself rather than as a part of satisfying a man, she won't be ready for APF, or for a mature relationship with a man.<br />Through the novel, the three primary protagonists, Mary Ann, Patricia, and Olive, all discover or deepen their relationships with a true male partner, but do so in the context of their sexual liberation. While APF is a secret not shared with their men, the men ultimately benefit by having sexually enthusiastic partners.<br />Author Zane's writing is fast-paced and sexy with enough dialect to give the story an authentic flavor without detracting from readability. The material is sexually explicit and deals with issues of adultery. The easily offended will want to stay clear. Those who enjoy a steamy and liberating story of modern women will find THE SISTERS OF APF highly enjoyable.	2003-06-19
1083440:US	49115690	R1VRORXKAWDK0J	0765304686	952123131	Mistress of Dragons (The Dragonvarld, Book 1)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Promising start to new series	For three hundred years, the Priestesses, guided by the Mistress of Dragons, have defended their kingdom against the dragons that rule the rest of mankind. Melisande, High Priestess, lives to serve the Mistress who is now growing old. What Melisande doesn't know is that the entire legend is based on a lie. Dragons exist, but their role is far more complicated than the simple black-white struggle that Melisande has been taught.<br />Draconas is a walker--one of the few dragons allowed to reshape themselves into human form and move among the weaker race. Even in his human form, magic barriers prevent his entering the kingdom protected by the Mistress. But someone is murdering dragons--someone has stolen the secret of dragon magic and is teaching it to humans. Draconas is sent as a spy to determine who has broken the ancient Dragon laws--and end the threat to the peace that dragons have been attempting to establish between their race and the humans.<br />Margaret Weis develops an enthralling world of dragons and humans. Draconas, along with King Edward, scale the mountains that separate Edward's kingdom from that of the Mistress. Although their search is successful, what they discover is worse than either had feared. Dragons have violated all of the basic laws of their kind and are systematically gaining in strength, using humans with dragon magic to extend their sway. If allowed to continue, they may overthrow the Dragon Parliament.  And even Draconas is powerless to stop them.<br />Weis's strong writing and interesting characters more than compensate for several plot holes that would otherwise detract from the reader's enjoyment (specifically, Draconas's original plan to use Edward to help him enter the Mistress's kingdom doesn't make sense and, in fact, is dropped without any mention). Draconas, in particular is a complex and interesting character.<br />MISTRESS OF DRAGONS is the lead book in a new series.  I'll look forward to seeing the next.	2003-06-18
1084673:US	49115690	R2YFYP1YIDZCTB	0060012366	183980834	The Wee Free Men: A Story of Discworld	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Multi-layered fairy story. Good stuff.	The Wee Free Men are scared--the lines between the world are getting thin and the Queen that they once served is ready to break through. Only a witch can help--but the only witch available is nine-year-old Tiffany. Tiffany Aching doesn't know magic and she doesn't have a pointed hat, but she's decided she will be a witch some day. With the arrival of the Queen and the kidnapping of Tiffany's brother, some day arrives more quickly than Tiffany had anticipated.<br />Tiffany sets off on an adventure in a dream world--a world where your dreams can hurt you, and where other being's dreams can hurt you even more. The Queen is the mistress of dreams--and nightmares. In her kingdom, and increasingly in the mundane world that Tiffany comes from, nightmare monsters are loose. Even the wee free men cannot stand against them.<br />Author Terry Pratchett starts with a simple fairy tale--the poor shepherd girl facing the evil Queen, and dresses it with multiple layers of meaning. At the simplest level, WEE FREE MEN is an adventure that twists many of the established rules of the fairy tale (the witches are the goodguys, the beautiful Queen is evil, and the baron's son is purely incompetent). Dig deeper and every detail had weight. The Wee Men are funny with their Scottish accents and willingness to fight, but they are also a bit sad and more especially, a good example for all of us. Like us, they've been fooled before. Unlike most of us, they are willing to fight to prevent it from happening again.<br />Tiffany, armed with her frying pan and with instructions to open her eyes, then open them again, is unusually clever for a nine-year-old, but then she is the hero. With the example of her grandmother behind her, there is little that Tiffany cannot do if she can keep her mind on it--and keep from being swept up in other people's dreams.<br />I might be making WEE GREEN MEN sound like some sort of philosophy text and nothing could be farther from the truth. It's filled with Pratchett humor and insights, an exciting adventure, and emotional complexities. One small word of warning--although the Nac Mac Feegle (the wee men) appear in Discworld stories, Tiffany's world resembles our own a lot more than it does the Discworld of Ankh Morpork and the Great God Om.chett humor and insights, an exciting adventure, and emotional complexities. One small word of warning--although the Nac Mac Feegle (the wee men) appear in Discworld stories, Tiffany's world resembles our own a lot more than it does the Discworld of Ankh Morpork and the Great God Om.	2003-06-17
1084768:US	49115690	R2V6NO4NDC2VTY	0066214769	637368678	Children of the Storm	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Peabody adventure--good. But a tad illogical	The great war is over, but Egypt remains uneasy as peace begins to make its way into the nation. Peace and jewel thiefs--a former associate of Sethos vanishes along with priceless Egyptian jewelery and Amelia Peabody and her entire clan are quick to get into the act. What follows is a fairly long drawn-out series of misfortunes (their boat sinks, their car crashes, a bug threatens the children, a boogie-man appears at the bedroom window, Sethos's long-vanished daughter appears and is assailed. Somehow, Amelia has to make sense of the entire mess. The problem is, this time, she doesn't seem to be the target. Her usual strategy of letting the antagonists capture her won't work this time.<br />Author Elizabeth Peters concludes CHILDREN OF THE STORM with a hundred pages of action, suspense, and emotional impact. Without the background of the great war that played such a key role in her recent novels, Peters turns to family details to fill up the remainder of the pages. We all enjoy hearing how much Amelia appreciates Emerson's manly, uh, manliness, but perhaps Peters goes a little overboard. Of course, their son Ramses is hardly less manly--which causes problems given that he's married now and all the women still want him.<br />Fans of Elizabeth Peters (like me) will enjoy this story and even enjoy most of the family details. Seeing Emerson and his two brothers working together for a change is somehow satisfying. On the downside, Peters doesn't give quite the dose of archeology that I am used to and I found myself missing it. Also, although all of the Amelia Peabody stories are a little over the top, the 'plan' that the criminals are working on this time seems more than a little off. Surely they wouldn't rationally do everything they do here--essentially inviting Amelia and family to investigate them--if their motivation is as described. CHILDREN OF THE STORM is definitely not the book to acquaint new readers with the Elizabeth Peters universe.	2003-06-17
1085300:US	49115690	RR2K2JT3JBGMS	0373169744	809800613	Fortune's Twins: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 974)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful and satisfying read	While celebrating her share of the Millionaire, Montana lottery win, normally conservative Gwen Tanner goes wild and ends up in bed with handsome Eli Garrett. She never got his address and is happy enough that she's pregnant with twins as a result of that one night, but when Eli walks back into her life seven months later, he sets off all of her buttons--and all of Gwen's alarms. The town of Millionaire, Montana has been overrun with fortune hunters since their lucky lottery win. Is it possible that Eli is another fortune hunter? The evidence mounts suspiciously against him, whatever his words about wanting to move in and become a part of Gwen's life and the life of their children.<br />Harlequin American favorite author Kara Lennox delivers a charming and romantic story of broken trust and hope. Gwen is a fully developed character with issues. Her problems with Eli flow naturally from her character and add depth to the story. Eli is a wonderfully male guy, capable of causing heart-throb but of sensitive feelings as well. Familiar characters run through the MILLIONAIRE, MONTANA series and Lennox makes them her own, getting humerous relief from the host of small-town favorites. She also resolves the mystery that has run through the series, discovering the perpetrators behind the pavillion fire.<br />FORTUNE'S TWINS is pure enjoyment--and a classic example of the best of Harlequin American.	2003-06-17
1088830:US	49115690	R17G1G0TBM4MOR	1551666901	460258417	Changing Habits	Books	4	3	3	N	N	3 women deal with faith--and emerging back into the world	In the late 1950s and early 1960s, three young women decide to become nuns. Angelina has a sudden calling while on a school retreat. Kathleen had always planned on being a nun. And Joanna had planned to marry but felt her calling when her fiance came home from Viet Nam with an Asian bride. As noviates and as nuns, the three learn a great deal about themselves and their faith. Yet, even behind their cloister walls, the events of the 1960s and 1970s cannot leave them unaltered. Each suffers a crisis in their faith--for one, the realization that the Church's views on birth control can be destructive; for another, desire for a man; for a third, the sisterhood's unwillingness to stand up and defend her when she needs it most. Somehow, the three women must learn to reenter the common world and make their place in a nation that has been transformed while they had turned inward.<br />Author Debbie Macomber has a knack for developing fascinating characters and seeing them through traumatic life changes. CHANGING HABITS, with its emphasis on the three women and their shared journey to faith and beyond, lets Macomber run with this strength. Each of the three women is interesting and becomes more interesting as they leave their youth behind them and struggles to find their place in faith and back in the profane world. Macomber's deft touch lets her bring in the events of the 1960s and 1970s (the assassinations of Kennedy, King, and Kennedy, Watergate, and especially Viet Nam) and the transformations of the Catholic Church (Vatican II, the debate over birth control, and the Church's self-inflicted wounds as it tried to hide renegade Priests from their punishments) in a way that will resonate with those who remember them, yet without detracting from the fundamental issues of the novel itself (this is alway a challenge in dealing with issues that remain controversial today).<br />CHANGING HABITS is sometimes episodic. Rather than a continuous story line, Macomber gives highlights of the lives these women experience, focussing on the key transitions and decisions that each must make. The language is occasionally simplistic and CHANGING HABITS sometimes reads like it was intended for young adults. The interesting characters and the decisions they face, though, will appeal to all ages. Macomber delivers an enjoyable Woman's Fiction story.s of the lives these women experience, focussing on the key transitions and decisions that each must make. The language is occasionally simplistic and CHANGING HABITS sometimes reads like it was intended for young adults. The interesting characters and the decisions they face, though, will appeal to all ages. Macomber delivers an enjoyable Woman's Fiction story.	2003-06-14
1089426:US	49115690	RG9BDF2SNAGMJ	0373169744	809800613	Fortune's Twins: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 974)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pure enjoyment	While celebrating her share of the Millionaire, Montana lottery win, normally conservative Gwen Tanner goes wild and ends up in bed with handsome Eli Garrett. She never got his address and is happy enough that she's pregnant with twins as a result of that one night, but when Eli walks back into her life seven months later, he sets off all of her buttons--and all of Gwen's alarms. The town of Millionaire, Montana has been overrun with fortune hunters since their lucky lottery win. Is it possible that Eli is another fortune hunter? The evidence mounts suspiciously against him, whatever his words about wanting to move in and become a part of Gwen's life and the life of their children. <br />Harlequin American favorite author Kara Lennox delivers a charming and romantic story of broken trust and hope. Gwen is a fully developed character with issues. Her problems with Eli flow naturally from her character and add depth to the story. Eli is a wonderfully male guy, capable of causing heart-throb but of sensitive feelings as well. Familiar characters run through the MILLIONAIRE, MONTANA series and Lennox makes them her own, getting humerous relief from the host of small-town favorites. She also resolves the mystery that has run through the series, discovering the perpetrators behind the pavillion fire. <br />FORTUNE'S TWINS is pure enjoyment--and a classic example of the best of Harlequin American.	2003-06-13
1089894:US	49115690	RSPT2RH7QXAP0	0373169744	809800613	Fortune's Twins: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 974)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Pure enjoyment	While celebrating her share of the Millionaire, Montana lottery win, normally conservative Gwen Tanner goes wild and ends up in bed with handsome Eli Garrett. She never got his address and is happy enough that she's pregnant with twins as a result of that one night, but when Eli walks back into her life seven months later, he sets off all of her buttons--and all of Gwen's alarms. The town of Millionaire, Montana has been overrun with fortune hunters since their lucky lottery win. Is it possible that Eli is another fortune hunter? The evidence mounts suspiciously against him, whatever his words about wanting to move in and become a part of Gwen's life and the life of their children. <br />Harlequin American favorite author Kara Lennox delivers a charming and romantic story of broken trust and hope. Gwen is a fully developed character with issues. Her problems with Eli flow naturally from her character and add depth to the story. Eli is a wonderfully male guy, capable of causing heart-throb but of sensitive feelings as well. Familiar characters run through the MILLIONAIRE, MONTANA series and Lennox makes them her own, getting humerous relief from the host of small-town favorites. She also resolves the mystery that has run through the series, discovering the perpetrators behind the pavillion fire. <br />FORTUNE'S TWINS is pure enjoyment--and a classic example of the best of Harlequin American.	2003-06-13
1090232:US	49115690	R1GA4SZ7GES9N9	0373169744	809800613	Fortune's Twins: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 974)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pure enjoyment	While celebrating her share of the Millionaire, Montana lottery win, normally conservative Gwen Tanner goes wild and ends up in bed with handsome Eli Garrett. She never got his address and is happy enough that she's pregnant with twins as a result of that one night, but when Eli walks back into her life seven months later, he sets off all of her buttons--and all of Gwen's alarms. The town of Millionaire, Montana has been overrun with fortune hunters since their lucky lottery win. Is it possible that Eli is another fortune hunter? The evidence mounts suspiciously against him, whatever his words about wanting to move in and become a part of Gwen's life and the life of their children. <br />Harlequin American favorite author Kara Lennox delivers a charming and romantic story of broken trust and hope. Gwen is a fully developed character with issues. Her problems with Eli flow naturally from her character and add depth to the story. Eli is a wonderfully male guy, capable of causing heart-throb but of sensitive feelings as well. Familiar characters run through the MILLIONAIRE, MONTANA series and Lennox makes them her own, getting humerous relief from the host of small-town favorites. She also resolves the mystery that has run through the series, discovering the perpetrators behind the pavillion fire. <br />FORTUNE'S TWINS is pure enjoyment--and a classic example of the best of Harlequin American.	2003-06-13
1090289:US	49115690	R3RXAZ2WVXGCYH	0373169744	809800613	Fortune's Twins: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 974)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pure enjoyment	While celebrating her share of the Millionaire, Montana lottery win, normally conservative Gwen Tanner goes wild and ends up in bed with handsome Eli Garrett. She never got his address and is happy enough that she's pregnant with twins as a result of that one night, but when Eli walks back into her life seven months later, he sets off all of her buttons--and all of Gwen's alarms. The town of Millionaire, Montana has been overrun with fortune hunters since their lucky lottery win. Is it possible that Eli is another fortune hunter? The evidence mounts suspiciously against him, whatever his words about wanting to move in and become a part of Gwen's life and the life of their children. <br />Harlequin American favorite author Kara Lennox delivers a charming and romantic story of broken trust and hope. Gwen is a fully developed character with issues. Her problems with Eli flow naturally from her character and add depth to the story. Eli is a wonderfully male guy, capable of causing heart-throb but of sensitive feelings as well. Familiar characters run through the MILLIONAIRE, MONTANA series and Lennox makes them her own, getting humerous relief from the host of small-town favorites. She also resolves the mystery that has run through the series, discovering the perpetrators behind the pavillion fire. <br />FORTUNE'S TWINS is pure enjoyment--and a classic example of the best of Harlequin American.	2003-06-13
1092629:US	49115690	R2Y2W3UG6HQG26	0345454901	905449621	Claire and Present Danger	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well written and fascinating. Nicely done.	High school English teacher Amanda Pepper has her hands full with the new school year and planning for her first meeting with her prospective inlaws. Still, a high school teacher planning on getting married needs some extra money and Amanda is flattered to get her first independent job at the private detective agency where she works. The task should be straightforward--do an identity and background check on a woman for her prospective mother-in-law. Except who has been sending those nasty notes to the mother-in-law? And what should Amanda do when the mother-in-law turns up dead?<br />Author Gillan Roberts creates a memorable character in Amanda Pepper. Her worries about the upcoming in-law fest, concern for the teenage ostracism she sees in practice in her school (which blends nicely with her use of THE LORD OF THE FLIES in the classroom), and determination to get to the bottom of the mystery even when she is told that her job is over all make her sympathetic and admirable. Roberts's writing is fast-paced and involves the reader at multiple levels.<br />I especially enjoyed the way that Roberts blended together Amanda's teaching experience, her own mother-in-law concerns, and the themes of ostracism into the mystery. CLAIRE AND PRESENT DANGER is almost a fractile experience--every scene is, in some sense, a microcosm of the entire novel. Maybe it's Roberts's experience as an English teacher that makes her write this way but I certainly found it enjoyable and interesting.<br />CLAIRE AND PRESENT DANGER is not filled with constant sleuthing or hard-core detection. Whole chapters go by that are only connected to the mystery symbolically. And experienced mystery readers are likely to wish for a few more red herrings for suspicion to fall upon. Trust me, neither of these detract from the reading experience.	2003-06-11
1094275:US	49115690	R1NRWFL2WHF28L	0061020397	545755908	Carpe Jugulum (Discworld)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Completely entertaining adventure	King Verence of Lancre is a very modern king who doesn't believe in old prejudices. Since the Uberwald is a near neighbor, it only seems natural to invite a family of vampires to his baby's christening. The vampires are very modern as well. But their modern ideas involve moving out of their old castle and into the much more modern one of King Verence--and of taking over his kingdom. Since they've trained themselves not to mind little things like garlic, religious symbols, or holy water, they might just be a little hard to dislodge--especially since they can control the minds of anyone who comes near them. Unfortunately for Lancre, all the kingdom has to defend it are four witches and a dubious priest of Om.<br /><br />Author Terry Pratchett delivers a fun-filled adventure. Agnes and the hapless Oats are nicely developed characters with enough complexities to keep a psychologist busy for years. Agnes, the maiden of the witch triad (I know I said four, but it gets complicated) has conflicted feelings toward the handsome vampire Vlad, but then, she's conflicted enough internally so she hardly notices. Pratchett fans will be delighted to see that the faith of Om has made a comeback and that the prophet Brutha really did transform that religion.<br />Pratchett's Discworld series is filled with stories that take our familiar fairy tales and turn them around. CARPE JUGULUM (seize the throat) retells the story of Dracula, but with a somewhat overweight witch as the love interest, vampires interested in becoming completely modern, and village mobs who can be counted on to riot on command. As always with Pratchett, CARPE JUGULUM delivers plenty of smiles and a few out-loud laughs.	2003-06-10
1094906:US	49115690	RR5D20UT6JUU	0061057649	861145707	Feet of Clay (Discworld)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Good, but not the best of Discworld and the City Watch	It started with two old men--a priest and a baker--both murdered. Then the Patrician Vetinari himself is poisoned, but the watch can find no evidence of how he is being poisoned. When a golem confesses, it appears that Commander Vimes and the city watch have solved the case--but the golem confesses to all the unsolved crimes in the city. There is something going on and Vimes can't find the connecting thread. His new forensics officer, Cheery Littlebottom (a dwarf who wants to be seen as female and feminine despite all dwarf traditions) finds evidence of arsenic, but nowhere near Vetinari. Instead, one of the murdered men has arsenic under his finger-nails--this despite the fact that he died because his head was bashed in.<br />Under Vetinari, the city of Ankh-Morpork has prospered. Vetinari has allowed all races into the city, making it wealthy. He has cut down on the inter-guild sniping, resulting in more of Ankh-Morpork's efforts going into production rather than into wasteful shootouts. As a result, he has scarcely any supporters. Desite history, the people and nobility yearn for a King. Vimes will do whatever he can to ensure that doesn't happen, but what can a watchman do against the power of the guilds?<br />Underlying the Ankh-Morpork economy are the golems. Golems work endlessly for no pay, taking all of the worst jobs without complaining. This ultimate proletariat isn't even considered alive. Because Vimes is equal opportunity in his contempt, he doesn't mind looking beneath the surface, but still, what possible motives would golems have in overthrowing Vetinari and installing a King?<br />Author Terry Pratchett keeps the laughter coming in this story. Although FEET OF CLAY lacks the character development and nuances of some of the other Discworld stories (see our review of the BooksForABuck.com 2002 SF Book of the Year NIGHT WATCH), it an enjoyable short read. Vetinari, Vimes, and Captain Carrot all show moments of brilliance and manage to do so in amusing ways. Carrot's bumbling affair with the were Agula continues as Agula continues to wonder what she should do and Carrot continues inviting her to Dwarf Bread exibits. Fans of the Discworld series will find FEET OF CLAY an important addition to the series. If you are new to the series, you might consider starting with one of the other novels (NIGHT WATCH or GUARDS! GUARDS! would be excellent places to start).ing ways. Carrot's bumbling affair with the were Agula continues as Agula continues to wonder what she should do and Carrot continues inviting her to Dwarf Bread exibits. Fans of the Discworld series will find FEET OF CLAY an important addition to the series. If you are new to the series, you might consider starting with one of the other novels (NIGHT WATCH or GUARDS! GUARDS! would be excellent places to start).	2003-06-09
1098098:US	49115690	R1L9FPJCRRCAPS	1591298415	506825496	Free Falling	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A noble effort	Since starting to date Aaron, Denise has been suffering from terrible nightmares. Aaron's tendency to abuse and threaten her certainly doesn't help, but her psychologist suspects that more may be involved. Could Denise's dreams be caused by past life regression? Under hypnosis, Denise finds herself in the person of Olivia Walters in ante bellum South Carolina. There, Olivia is brutalized by her husband, Byron Walters and finds love in the arms of Wilson, one of Byron's slaves. Olivia's efforts to escape Byron's brutality parallel those of Denise. But solving dreams is one issue--finding true happiness in modern America is an even greater challenge for Denise.<br />FREE FALLING will appeal to readers interested in past life regression and in a view of the old south that is not obscured by the romantic wash that covers much romantic fiction. In author Sheri Neilson's world, the old south is a world of whippings, of spousal abuse, and of a concern for appearances at the price of simple decency. The strong message is reinforced by Neilson's decision to introduce an interracial relationship--that between white Olivia and black Wilson.<br />Neilson's heroic efforts are partly offset by simplistic writing and a failure to examine what drives the attraction between Wilson and Olivia. Even though Olivia was raised on a relatively liberal plantation, deciding on an interracial love affair would have needed more motivation that was presented in FALLING FREE.<br />FALLING FREE is a noble effort--attempting to combine a realistic view of the horrors of the institutions of the south with past life regression and abusive spouses. It falls somewhat short of its goals, but that doesn't detract from the power of the effort.	2003-06-06
1098933:US	49115690	RIARCNUG85BMG	0380817438	645876548	Love with a Scandalous Lord (Daughters of Fortune)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fun and emotionally rich story	Lydia Westland is determined to make her trip to England, her 'season' a dream come true. When her step-father Grayson is called back from Texas to see his dying father, Lydia accompanies him, fantasies of ever-so-proper and ever-so-handsome English noblemen sweeping her off her feet. London is a long way from Fortune, Texas, but Lydia is accompanied by multiple ettiquette books and a heaping serving ot Texas confidence, but none of that seems quite enough when she meets her step-father's much younger half-brother, Rhys, Marquess of Blackhurst and soon-to-be Duke.<br />Rhys can't ignore the instant attraction he feels toward this beautiful and energetic Texas woman, but neither can he deliver what she so clearly is looking for and so obviously deserves. She should have her season, her moment of glory. Any connection to him will eventually doom her. Even as he kisses her, he tries to hold her away. When her first ball in London results in disaster, Rhys resolves to a devil's bargain to bring her what Lydia needs and deserves--a bargain that will put her forever beyond his reach. She can have her season, her social success, but she can never have him.<br />Author Lorraine Heath brings her emotionally rich characters and situations from Texas to England in LOVE WITH A SCANDALOUS LORD. Set in the 1880s, England is in the midst of its transformation from aristocracy to democracy, and the proprieties remain critical. A woman can still be ruined and a career in business, bastardy, or inappropriate sexual adventures can still destroy a man's standing in society. Lydia is a charming heroine, with appealing Texas spunk. Rhys is damaged and dangerous--with skills in lovemaking that would set any woman's heart on fire, and that, in fact, have sent too many women into his arms.	2003-06-05
1099036:US	49115690	R2CFP4ZF4V6MK9	0345461754	500157568	Sucker Bet	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great con, great characters	Casino consultant Tony Valentine is trying out a new life, with a new woman--a professional wrestler. When his girlfriend admits she's been lying to him about contacts with her ex-husband, Valentine heads back to Miami and his business. And business is good. Con men and thiefs around the world are ripping off casinos, generally with inside help. One job, in an American Indian casino is practically local and Valentine agrees to take it. Things escalate quickly when Valentine is attacked by aligators who somehow made it into his car.<br />Author James Swain knows his gambling business. Following Valentine around lets the reader know about the way gamblers work and how the cons run. And there is a con being run--a huge one that mobster Rico Blanco has been running. He doesn't need Valentine cutting into his action.<br />The con is clever and sophisticated and the aging and widowered Valentine makes a sympathetic protagonist. The problems in his love life and with his semi-crooked son let the reader sympathize with his sometimes abrupt and angry actions. Hooker Candy Hart and Valentine's neighbor, Mabel add interest to an already fascinating story.<br />SUCKER BET hooks the reader, then reels him in. I found the conclusion a little confusing--exactly who hit whom--but that didn't stop me from seriously enjoying this novel. Now, if I can just get my sandpaper and head for the nearest casino...	2003-06-05
1099295:US	49115690	R2H87LUPV1YCAJ	0373169698	228572037	Saved by a Texas-Sized Wedding (Harlequin American Romance, No 969)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Satisfying Judy Christenberry story	When her cousin dies in a freak auto accident, Suzanne McCoy moves to their ranch in Cactus, Texas to raise their children. When she discovers her ranch hands are stealing from her, she fires them, but then realizes that she doesn't have a clue how to run a ranch--and whoever she turns to points her at handsome rancher Ryan Walker. Ryan has his hands full with his own ranch and with his three year old daughter, Beth whose birth mother abandoned them both over two years earlier. Suzanne's offer to handle housekeeping and babysitting in exchange for his taking over ranch management doesn't seem quite fair, but the matchmaking mothers of Cactus have him in their sights. And it isn't as if Suzanne is any hardship to look at. A marriage of convenience, with the emphasis on convenience, is perfect.<br />It doesn't take long for Suzanne to realize that her feelings toward Ryan are anything but convenient. She falls in love with his daughter--and him. But could he ever be willing to open up to her, let her inside his shields, and really love her? When an unexpected challenge comes into their lives, she fears that she may never learn the answer as they have to play the role of the perfectly married couple.<br />Author Judy Christenberry continually delights readers with heart-warming stories of marriage, children, and women who tame their men to some semblance of civilization. SAVED BY A TEXAS-SIZED WEDDING is a fast-reading pleasure.	2003-06-05
1099615:US	49115690	R1T4KMKXNS2TUX	0373196547	774159816	Daddy on the Doorstep	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Can two people take the emotional risk to save their love?	Andrea Avery left her husband for one very good reason. Despite his attempts at protection, she is pregnant--and despite everything he says, she will have the child. When a flood leaves Andrea and millionaire businessman Nicholas Avery stranded in his aunt's home, Andrea knows she needs to tell him the truth--the reason she left and what she needs if she is to return to being his wife. But Nick has problems of his own--his own father was cruel and alcoholic. Nick fears that he would be no better--and would rather be no father at all than the only kind of father he ever knew. That Andrea has withheld the truth from him won't help. Worse, though, is that their enforced togetherness is making Andrea think about how nice it would be to make a real family.<br />Author Judy Christenberry delivers an emotionally compelling story of fear and growth. Only by taking a chance can Nick learn to love. Only by telling the truth can Andrea discover Nick's true feelings. Yet, the very actions that might bring them joy are also the actions that hold the largest risk. Christenberry's light style makes for a fast read, compelling the reader through to the final crisis--and beyond.	2003-06-05
1100602:US	49115690	R1O1SNZA23EFNQ	0451410904	155908831	Blushing Pink	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Sexy and funny. Fast enjoyable read	Reese Brock is frustrated with graduate school, clueless on ideas for her dissertation, sexually deprived, and overworked by her lead Professor. When she comes home for Christmas break, she finds her family in disarray as they arrange for her sister's marriage. The only bright spot is Brian Doren--a man she spent a passionate New Years eve with a couple of years earlier who then promptly dropped out of sight. He's to be the best man at the wedding and Reese's hormones rev into overdrive every time she sees him. Things might go somewhere there--if Reese can keep from insulting him to his face, keep her nipples from poking through her sweater, and figure out what to do with the almost-a-boyfriend who suddenly seems to want to be a part of her life. Unfortunately for Reese, keeping her mouth (or her nipples) under control is always a challenge.<br />Author Jill Winters adopts a young and fast-paced style to tell a sexy and funny story. Reese and her whole family are disfunctional and barely coping. Her mother is obsessed with the upcoming wedding, and her older sister (not the one getting married) is depressed after her husband's heart attack. The disfunctionality makes for amusing reading most of the time, and made me cringe in painful recognition the rest of the time. The sex is hot but not offensive, and the sexual attraction between Reese and Brian sizzles. Kenneth, the almost-a-boyfriend adds an amusing subplot to the story as does the hapless Professor Kimble.<br />Both Reese and Brian have things that make them loveable to the reader and, potentially, to each other. Reese is an aspiring author and Brian is taking care of his pregnant sister. I would have liked to see these loveable characteristics play into the attraction the two feel for one another. Instead, it seems to come down to Reese's curvy figure and Brian's not being Kenneth. A little more sense of deeping attraction could have helped deepen my appreciation for this novel. That said, BLUSHING PINK is a fast-paced and fully enjoyable novel. If you like hip, sassy, chick-lit-styled romance (and who doesn't) you'll enjoy BLUSHING PINK.a fast-paced and fully enjoyable novel. If you like hip, sassy, chick-lit-styled romance (and who doesn't) you'll enjoy BLUSHING PINK.	2003-06-04
1100954:US	49115690	RR9E43FKFXPUX	0765304325	177174014	The Phoenix Exultant: The Golden Age, Volume 2	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fascinating science, interesting hero	After the government exiles him, ordering that anyone who even talks to him also be exiled, Phaethon descends into the world of hopeless losers. He's equipped with sophisticated nanotechnology--but fears any contact with the global communications and computer system that will, he is certain, announce his whereabouts to the enemies that he knows are invading our system--enemies that only he believes exist. Somehow, Phaethon must overcome the limitations put on him by both his own society and these mysterious invaders, if he is to reclaim his space ship--the Phoenix Exultant which he built to travel to the stars.<br />Author John C. Wright does a wonderful job building a convincing world of the future. Nanotechnology is everywhere, artificial intelligences are protected by law, and human/computer society has experimented with group minds. In many ways, it is a golden age, but an age with its limitations--and Wright's Phaethon is the kind of man who is destined to struggle against these limitations.<br />THE PHOENIX EXULTANT combined interesting extrapolation with solid adventure. A dynamite combination, for sure. Unfortunately, the writing, especially the dialogue, is sometimes clunky to the point where characters seem to be lecturing one another. Phaethon's heavy-handed attempts to reform the losers of the water realm where he is sent may be well-meaning, but make him appear condescending and annoying rather than heroic and caring. Imperfections aside, THE PHOENIX EXULTANT is a fascinating read and worth the occasionally heavy language.	2003-06-04
1102849:US	49115690	R2SRFY955NFE52	0553802291	865601768	Unhinged	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Great home repair, middling mystery	It's a bad couple of days for Jacobia (Jake) Tiptree and her family. After falling off a ladder while working on her old house's gutters, Jake's son is involved in a truck accident, her husband is nearly killed by an exploding shotgun shell, and she discovers major foundation problems. She also decides that the vanished woman down the street must have been killed and it's up to Jake and her friend Ellie to solve the mystery. A questionable foundation man, annoying ex-husband, con-man ecologist, and a cop who seems to think that everything is about him add to the complexity.<br />Author Sarah Graves seems to know her home repair. For anyone (like me) who has attempted to rennovate an old house, many of Jake's frustrations will ring true. As a loving mother, abandoned child, and hardworking sleuth, Jake Tiptree makes a sympathetic character.<br />I found the mystery in UNHINGED to be a bit over the top without being funny. The killer's motives are illogical (admittedly he/she was crazy, but still) and few serious mystery readers will be thrown off by the rather weak red-herrings that Graves offers. All of Jake's sleuthing doesn't really lead to much except an exploration into the culture of Eastport, Maine (admittedly, Eastport, Maine seems pretty interesting). I would have liked to see more action on the part of Jake, more logical action, and especially action that had a direct bearing on solving the mystery.	2003-06-02
1102906:US	49115690	R33XYULCKF766D	0380977087	492544464	Talon of the Silver Hawk (Conclave of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Exciting and well written fantasy	Talon is in the mountains waiting for the vision that will usher him into manhood when mercenaries attack his village, destroying it and every other village of his people. Talon is leff for dead, but rescued by a band of magicians who save him at the price of his service. Talon begins a long period of training, first in mundane skills of hunting and food preparation, but later in language, swordfighting, and art. The magicians intend to use him for their purposes--good purposes, they assure him. Talon is willing--he is honor-bound to serve those who saved his life, but his patience is not unlimited. His most important, sacred, goal is to revenge his people.<br />Author Raymond E. Feist combines solid action with the emotional richness of a young man who has his entire future uprooted on seeing the genocide of his people. Talon is imperfect enough to be sympathetic, yet uncannily skillful with weapons and women. TALON OF THE SILVER HAWK is set in Feist's Krondor/Riftwar universe and shows Feist's mastery of world-building.<br />Feist's strong writing keeps the reader moving forward although much of the book serves as preparation for the action at the end. Even in this preparation, however, Talon finds himself facing truly evil enemies and wrestling with that most difficult of all subjects--women. TALON OF THE SILVER HAWK is an enjoyable and exciting opening to a new series. Good stuff.	2003-06-02
1103787:US	49115690	R36LPQQ2NWDBN1	0312304889	189747218	The Tribune's Curse: SPQR VII	Books	5	6	6	N	N	well written, fascinating history--highly recommended	Roman Senator Decius Caecilius Metellus is back in Rome, standing for election, when the always dangerous city is convulsed by a Tribune's curse. The Tribune curses Crassus as he sets out for war against the Parthians (a war that ended with Crassus's death and one of the worst defeats that Rome had ever suffered), invoking a number of secret gods and the secret name of Rome itself. Everyone knows that knowledge of the true name constitutes power, and Rome must take extraordinary measures to purify itself. When the Priestly colleges come to Decius and insist that he bring them the name of the one who betrayed Rome's secret name, Decius is thrust into mystery, danger, and death.<br />Author John Maddox Roberts makes this turbulent era in Roman history come to life. From details of Decius's candidate toga (whitened with chalk to stand out), to the economics of being a Roman politician, to the scheming of the three men--Pompey, Crassus, and Caesar--who rule Rome, THE TRIBUNE'S CURSE drips with authenticity. Better yet, the history lesson is fully integrated into the story. Roberts delivers information as it is needed, involving the reader in the mystery and the history simultaneously.<br />Decius, with his fears of poverty, his love of wine, and his loving but greedy wife, makes a sympathetic character--important since the story is told as a first person narative. He is positioned high enough in society to have access to information and contacts, yet low enough to be fair game for anyone who thinks that the truth would be better hidden.<br />Fans of Roman history, historical mysteries, or fine writing won't go wrong with this compelling mystery.	2003-06-01
1104242:US	49115690	R14FK354XPSOP6	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny, worthwhile, but a little message-heavy	When Temple Novice Brutha hears a small turtle talking to him, he is certain it is a demon--until the turtle persuades Brutha that he (the turtle) is, in fact, the Great God Om. Brutha's entire civilization is built around the worship of Om, but worship and belief are two very different things. In Discworld, a god's power comes from the prayers of his believers and Om, it turns out, has exactly one believer--Brutha. Brutha is not especially bright, but he has a perfect memory and he is tasked to come on a journey with the Exquisitioner of Om--a man who has made a career of routing evil out of the theocracy. On the journey, Brutha discovers philosophy, books, and strange ideas about coexistance.<br />The idea of a world swarming with small gods, each desparately seeking for believers and each concerned primarily with their own self-interest (it is the amount rather than the content of the prayer tha matters) is funny and author Terry Pratchett milks it to the max. The once-great and now diminished Om is a charming character, full of himself and of practical advice that Brutha mostly ignores. Pratchett presents SMALL GODS in a fairy-tale style, tying the story together with other Discworld novels through the device of the time monks and the omni-present Death.<br />Occasionally, Pratchett gets a little carried away with his message and certainly SMALL GODS doesn't deliver the kind of complex and evolving character that Pratchett develops in his wonderful Night Watch sub-series (NIGHT WATCH was BooksForABuck.com's #1 pick for 2002), but the novel is well written and interesting nevertheless.	2003-06-01
1105688:US	49115690	R1W3RKKSMOSC8	0749005831	88925120	Death at St. James's Palace (A & B Crime Collection)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Fine historical details--unadmirable character	Apothecary John Rawlings attends the St. James Palace knighting of his friend and collegue Sir John Fielding thinking that all will be pomp and circumstance. Instead, one of the new knights falls to his death from the stairs. A terrible accident? Rawlings suspects that someone might have given the knight a push. Together with Fielding, Rawlings sets off through the upper crust of Georgian England society to find the truth. There is no lack of suspects. George Goward might have been knighted for his charity, but he left enemies everywhere. No one who knew him much regrets his death. Yet, Rawlings knows his job and the veniality of the victim doesn't impact that.<br />Author Deryn Lake has obviously researched the Georgian period and blends plenty of fun historical tidbits into her story. The gardens, champagne breakfasts, and love affairs of the period all ring true. Lake uses a wealth of historical characters to add authenticity and that spark of recognition to her story, starting with Fielding himself, the founder of the Bow Street Runners (beloved in regency romance) and of modern policing.<br />An interesting historical period and a clever crime are important ingredients in a mystery. Rawlings, himself, however, is less than sympathetic as a character. He is barely tolerant of his newly pregnant wife, condescending to her wish to mingle with society, ignoring her for days at a time while he runs about his detecting, and openly lusting over other women. Lake also brings in a bit too much coincidence--distracting the reader from the story.	2003-05-30
1107710:US	49115690	R20R38BJU0AQVB	0380978962	675078442	Paragon Lost: A Chronicle of the King's Blades	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well written and exciting. Fine fantasy in fine series	He was the greatest blade of his generation, but assigned an impossible task. Beaumont, along with two other blades, is tasked to take the Knig's chief counselor across half the world to a Russia-like kingdom where they are to meet the King's bride and safely escort her home. This would be a standard task for a trained blade like Beaumont, except that the counselor is dying (and blades whose ward dies are in trouble), the country in between is nearly impassible, and the Czar, Igor, is insane, cruel, and sees conspiracies everywhere. Even Beaumont's abilities with his blade and his rapier-like mind seem inadequate to confront this task. Should he be successful, Beaumont knows what is in store for him--not welcome back as a hero, but suspicion on the part of his own King. For everyone knows that any woman will fall for a blade--even if she is a royal princess and the King's intended.<br /><br />Author David Duncan creates a medieval world close to our own, but separated by the existance of magic. The magic of the blades--a band of trained warriors who become bonded to the man (or woman) who pierces them with a sword through their hearts, adds a level of fascination to the story. Beaumont might be a little too smart, too clever, to be believable, but his situation demands exactly that from him and he doesn't disappoint. Duncan's strong writing compells the reader forward and the close parallels back to our own world ground the reader.	2003-05-29
1110350:US	49115690	R36RG6WIAH9R8N	0061092193	308641592	Men at Arms	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More superior Pratchett set in the Night Watch	Captain Sam Vimes is about to become wealthy, married, and retired from his career in the City Watch. When a strange explosion occurs in the Assassins Guild, it really isn't his business--especially when Vetinari, the Patrician, specifically orders him to stay clear. Vimes's common sense wars with his self-defined duty and duty wins--at least until Vetinari calls him in for a second appointment (nobody wants a second appointment with the city's strange and nearly omnicient leader). For Vimes, the bottle is the way out. But Corporal Carrot isn't about to let a little thing like Vetinari's orders keep him from donig the right thing (Carrot always does the right thing) and pushes on in Vimes's absence.<br />MEN AT ARMS tells the story of the fundamental reshaping of the City Watch under the combined influence of Vetinari, Vimes, and Carrot. The Watch is expanded from all-human to include dwarves, trolls, and a beautiful werewolf. Vetinari's policy of constructive anarchy may allow the city to work after a fashion, but a watch made up of misfits from all walks of life can certainly help. The novel is a near-continuation of the very fine GUARDS! GUARDS!<br />Author Terry Pratchett combines puns, outrageous and over-the-top action, and real insights into humanity in ways that keep the reader laughing and thinking at the same time. Both Vetinari and Carrot are admirable, but both are also beyond most of our reach. Vimes, in contrast, is every-man. His dilemmas are those that all of us must face. That Vimes can rise (and sometimes fall) to the occasion brings some hope that any of us could do so too. Pratchett's work is at its best when it uses Discworld as a backdrop for the actions and decisions of its all-too-human sapients, and MEN AT ARMS is a fine example of exactly this.	2003-05-27
1112008:US	49115690	RR6L1LEPVY6C6	0552134627	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Knee-slapping humor and solid adventure. Perfect	The Ankh-Morpork Night Watch is a disgrace, its lack of talent offset only by the Patrician's distain for normal police work, relying as he does on the self-interest of the thieve's guild to keep crime under control. From alcoholic Captain Vines on down, the Watch exists but doesn't really act. When an occult band comes up with the idea of summoning dragons to change the Ankh-Morpork leadership, the Night Watch is the last place anyone would look for a hero. Which is lucky because what they get isn't a hero--exactly.<br />Author Terry Pratchett keeps the laughs coming in this Discworld-set adventure. Captain Vines, a recurring character in the series, is well developed as a sympathetic and interesting character. The romantic element adds to the humor and to the story as well.<br />Combining knee-slapping humor with a solid adventure is often difficult, but Pratchett manages without breaking a sweat. Fans of the DiscWorld series will definitely want to add this one to their must-read selection. GUARDS! GUARDS! is also a great place to start reading Pratchett novels as it introduces many of the important characters.	2003-05-25
1114405:US	49115690	R1NR17YTOA2WA5	0441008518	467842480	Here be Monsters (Warlock's Heirs, Book 4)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Pleasant but not essential	When his fiancee sees a vision of a monster invasion, Gregory gathers his brother Geoffrey and their friend and future brother-in-law, Alain, Crown Prince of Gramarye to investigate. Their respective fiancees, however, are hardly the type to stay at home and worry. Alouette, Cordelia (sister to Gregory and Geoffrey), and Quicksilver set off to watch over their men and perform any rescues that may be needed.<br />Someone, or something, has launched a plague of monsters on Gramarye--a plague that seems to have some purpose beyond terrorizing the natives. As they confront and defeat each of the monsters, the two groups of travellers begins to gather hints of that purpose and of an intended invasion of their world. Defeating local monsters is one thing--defeating an extra-dimensional invasion is something else.<br />Author Christopher Stasheff was one of the originators of the funny fantasy with his wonderful THE WARLOCK IN SPITE OF HIMSELF--the first novel in this series. As with many continuing series, the Warlock series seems to consist of a mix of essential novels and novels that could be missed. HERE BE MONSTERS falls into the second category. It contains plenty of puns, a bit of character growth, particularly on the part of future king Alain, and your basic magic and sword fighting. Unlike the original WARLOCK or earlier novels in this HEIRS series (where each of the Warlock's children finds their mate), HERE BE MONSTERS lacks the real emotional impact that makes for a powerful book.<br />HERE BE MONSTERS is a pleasant light read. Fans of the series will want to read it. Fantasy fans who haven't discovered the series yet would do better to start with one of the other novels in the series.	2003-05-23
1116317:US	49115690	R2JHHGQE0FBUK	0312290330	646192268	Coffin Knows the Answer	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Not quite up to snuff	Police chief John Coffin is obsessed with his wife, Stella, but that doesn't mean that his fears for her are unfounded. When a serial killer starts his work, Coffin notices that the victims all seem to have a tie to his wife. When nasty pictures and body parts show up addressed to his wife, Coffin sets his Second City London police force into action. That action, unfortunately, seems mostly to be going to meetings where they report that nothing has happened, but nothing eliminates Coffin's certainty that Stella is at the center of the crisis.<br />Author Gwendoline Butler uses a completely English vocabulary. American readers like myself can almost hear the English accent and phrasing coming through. Frequent head-hopping sometimes makes the story hard to follow. Given the level of introspection in the many point-of-view characters, it is surprisingly difficult to summon up much sympathy for any of the characters--criminal or police. While it is occasionally tempting to agree with the mysterious killer that the self-obsessed Stella could be done without, casual serial killing is certainly not the answer. The cure is almost certainly in Butler's delete key.<br />For me, an exciting police procedural should have at least some of the following elements: (1) clever police work; (2) a plan of attack on the part of the police; (3) potential suspects (red herrings); (4) some sort of relationship amongst the members of the police; (5) sympathetic characters; (6) realistic details that show research into actual police procedure; (7) clever or witty dialogue; (8) a well motivated criminal. I think the minimum number of these elements should be about two. COFFIN KNOWS THE ANSWER doesn't quite reach that milestone.	2003-05-21
1117921:US	49115690	R32OUL8XQCJD0N	0312281854	945219863	Slightly Abridged: A Nine Muses Mystery: Erato	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Witty and fun. Nice mix of mystery and romance	Juliet Bodine is stuck, blocked in writing her latest regency romance, so she welcomes the appearance of a fan. Ada Caffney is an energetic 84-year old who has lived life to the fullest, and who has discovered a segment of manuscript that might, possibly, be worth thousands. Ada drops into Juliet's life like a bombshell dragging Juliet away from her writing to poetry slams, Broadway shows, and tours of the Empire State Building (anything to get away from writing that dreadful romance). When Ada is found dead, the manuscript missing, Juliet becomes a suspect. With the help of illusive love interest and police detective Murray Landis, Juliet sets out to investigate.<br />Author Ellen Pall has written a fun mystery interweaving Juliet's love interests, the painful plotting of Juliet's book (which starts out sounding like a stinker but begins to pick up when Juliet's attraction toward Murray takes on new fire), and the unveiling of more and more motives to see Ada dead all work to keep the reader glued to the novel. Pall uses author intrusion to set the stage for later developments and as chapter hooks, teasing the reader with promises of more to come. It's a little disconcerting at first, but Pall uses it lightly enough to make it an enjoyable style choice.<br />SLIGHTLY ABRIDGED did start a little slowly and the story really gathers steam when Ada goes missing, Murray comes back into the scene, and Juliet is able to escape her morose plotting and turn her energies toward detecting. You'll end up rooting for Juliet to dump the too-perfect book dealer, hook up with Murray, and overcome the killer that only a writer can find.<br />Very nice.	2003-05-20
1118280:US	49115690	R2RB5API3Q91MI	0312281854	945219863	Slightly Abridged: A Nine Muses Mystery: Erato	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Witty and fun. Nice mix of mystery and romance	Juliet Bodine is stuck, blocked in writing her latest regency romance, so she welcomes the appearance of a fan. Ada Caffney is an energetic 84-year old who has lived life to the fullest, and who has discovered a segment of manuscript that might, possibly, be worth thousands. Ada drops into Juliet's life like a bombshell dragging Juliet away from her writing to poetry slams, Broadway shows, and tours of the Empire State Building (anything to get away from writing that dreadful romance). When Ada is found dead, the manuscript missing, Juliet becomes a suspect. With the help of illusive love interest and police detective Murray Landis, Juliet sets out to investigate.<br />Author Ellen Pall has written a fun mystery interweaving Juliet's love interests, the painful plotting of Juliet's book (which starts out sounding like a stinker but begins to pick up when Juliet's attraction toward Murray takes on new fire), and the unveiling of more and more motives to see Ada dead all work to keep the reader glued to the novel. Pall uses author intrusion to set the stage for later developments and as chapter hooks, teasing the reader with promises of more to come. It's a little disconcerting at first, but Pall uses it lightly enough to make it an enjoyable style choice.<br />SLIGHTLY ABRIDGED did start a little slowly and the story really gathers steam when Ada goes missing, Murray comes back into the scene, and Juliet is able to escape her morose plotting and turn her energies toward detecting. You'll end up rooting for Juliet to dump the too-perfect book dealer, hook up with Murray, and overcome the killer that only a writer can find.<br />Very nice.	2003-05-20
1119649:US	49115690	R34DGXDWRRVST1	0727859161	542017431	Deadly Echo	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intriguing characters, well written.  Definitely a winner	It looked like a load of rags and Private Investigator Kate Kinsella tried to pull her dog away from it--but then it moved. The rags turned out to be a young woman, recently pregnant, and close to suicide. Kate drags her back to her apartment but Megan appears nearly frozen with fear. Surely her story of date rape, a kidnapped child, and drugs is the crazed imagination of a woman with no life but her television. Except Kate hears the very real death threats over Megan's phone.<br />Against her will, Kate is dragged into an investigation of a crime that might not have happened. If it did happen, the criminal is a senior London police officer--someone who appears beyond Kate's reach. Kate's client is easily confused, never made a report of the rape, and is the type that would be confused on the witness stand. And the threatening caller seems willing to do anything to stop Megan--and Kate.<br />English author Christine Green has written a fascinating and compelling story. Kate Kinsella makes a wonderful character. She is just incompetent enough to be human, with a mother who would embarass anyone and a love life that wouldn't even fill a short story, but she is also plucky, brave, and a good sport (most of the time). As Kate lurches from danger to danger, hoping to find evidence before her suspect can find her, I found myself nearly holding my breath waiting to see what disaster would hapen next.<br />DEADLY ECHO is a top-notch mystery with a fine private investigator lead character.	2003-05-18
1129029:US	49115690	R2SI3Y5EPL50AL	1590580400	721394190	Beat Until Stiff (Mary Ryan Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nice, but with a little too much self-pity	Since her husband left her for another woman, Mary Ryan has sunk herself into the 16 hour days of a restaurant pastry chef. But when she arrives early one morning and stumbles over the dead body of one of the wait staff, she is yanked from her lethargy and feels compelled to investigate--despite clear warnings from cop ex-husband Jim and Jim's former partner, O'Connor. Mary's search takes her all over San Francisco and she gradually uncovers evidence that the murder is more than random violence. Something is going on at the restaurant where she works--something that may put her in grave danger.<br />Author Claire M. Johnson delivers a well written story in her debut novel, BEAT UNTIL STIFF--and what a killer title. I took a while to warm to Mary Ryan, the protagonist as he full emersion in self-pity quickly wore thin and her motivation for investigation seemed a bit shaky. Still, it's hard not to like a 30-something woman determined to make it in the rough world of food service, and determined to uncover the truth about the death of a friend.<br />Johnson's view of the restaurant world, with its base of immigrants, self-obsessed prima-donna chefs, gay creative talents, and wine tasting parties rings true as does her city of San Francisco.	2003-05-10
1129079:US	49115690	RHE596X23Z8Q	0345443756	929858796	Rally Point (Demontech, Book 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Non-stop action, real characters	The Dark Prince's invasion is going flawlessly, everywhere except where it has run into a small band of sea warriors--self-styled marines. Admittedly, a few marines shouldn't be able to do much against nation-destroying hordes, but the Dark Prince doesn't believe in taking chances. He sends his magicians to spy on the marines, determine their plans, and to prepare for their complete destruction.<br />Spinner and Haft, guided by the immortal readings from a Marine Sergeant, have gathered a small group of refugees--troops whose nations were destroyed or who deserted before they could fight (few other than Spinner and Haft have actually survived a battle with the Dark Prince's army). But with the Dark Prince's eye on them, and with bandits, bad weather, and restless locals, the Marines are in big trouble. Still, when they have an opportunity to ambush and defeat a small band of the Prince's men, the defeated soldiers in their band start to perk up. With the help of their mage, and of a wolf who understands human speech, they develop a plan to make the Prince pay more than he wants for his victory. Of course, this assumes that their own differences, including romantic complications, don't cause the Marines to self-destruct first.<br />Author David Sherman delivers an action-packed tale of magic and heroism. The Marine elements give the story a bit of grounding in our own universe, and the magic system is close enough to modern technology to allow Marine doctrine to work. Sherman's writing is effective and helps compell the reader through the story. The character development and interactions helps raise the novel above a purely adventure story. RALLY POINT is an enjoyable light read.	2003-05-10
1131119:US	49115690	RULP9IY8IQDU6	0345452550	330974377	A Cold Heart: An Alex Delaware Novel	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not the best in great series	When an has-been blues artist is murdered in Los Angeles, the police don't have much to go on--until psychologist Alex Delaware notices a connection to other deaths. Could someone really be killing artists who are on the verge of success? With his long-time partner Milo, police detective Petra Connor, and Petra's new and possibly psychotic partner Eric Stahl, Alex starts looking for clues to a possible serial killer. Psychological profiling serves to narrow the suspect list, but can they act quickly enough to prevent the killer from striking again?<br />Author Jonathan Kellerman has delivered a series of wonderful police/psychologist novels featuring Milo and Alex in the past, but A COLD HEART is not the best of these. The early novels in this series deal extensively with child abuse--a crime that cannot help to tug hard on any reader's emotions. Although a serial killer has the potential for similarly powerful emotional impact, Kellerman doesn't quite milk the material. Many readers may also find the killer's identity a little easy to guess, and the action-packed conclusion to be telegraphed a little too obviously.<br />Being far from the best in this series does not mean that A COLD HEART isn't worth reading. Kellerman is a strong writer who involves the reader, delivers smooth and fascinating insights into humanity, and can be counted on for a clever plot twist.	2003-05-08
1133982:US	49115690	R18S4903A602PJ	0972380604	943479813	Memoirs of Christina Morris	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Spying for the Germans during WW-II	Christina Morris is blackmailed by the Germans into spying for them during the dark days of World War II. Discovered by the English, she is sentenced to death, but is able to write her memoires which form the bulk of this novel.<br />THE MEMOIRES OF CHRISTINA MORRIS is translated from Spanish and some of the awkwardness in the novel may come from the translation rather than from the writing. I found the use of quotation marks for internal dialogue and occasionally clunky English to be distracting from a potentially very interesting story.<br />Readers should feel free to skip the first hundred pages, turning directly to Christina Morris's memoires. Christina's problems with falling in love with inappropriate or unavailable men and loyalty to her family give the Germans a chance to blackmail her to spying for them. Unfortunately, Christina never considers going to the English, or simply daring them to carry out their threats which would do more harm to the German effort than to herself. This illogical element in Christina's life is completely consistent with the character and not a writing flaw, but it did serve to make her less sympathetic to me.<br />Author Stella Sole's use of herself as a secondary character is amusing, especially the way that Christina perks up when she hears that Stella Sole is going to be working with her. Perhaps in the Spanish version, more of this tongue-in-cheek humor comes through.	2003-05-05
1134102:US	49115690	R28Y7OI1FBVWN7	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic SF tale--anti-censorship and also anti-war	Fireman Guy Montag is happy with his work--burning books--until he runs into a teenaged neighbor who really talks to him, questions him, and starts his mind working in directions that don't feel comfortable and that lead him to question his entire existance. In Ray Bradbury's futuristic dystopia, books are illegal and wall-sized television sets, constantly babeling and even allowing user interactivity, rule the world. But, as we learn from the story, this isn't the result of harsh government sanctions, but of popular consensus only supported by the government when books were already almost extinct.<br />Author Ray Bradbury is a powerful and effective writer. His use of the language adds color to a straightforward, if fascinating plot about a man's struggle to come to terms with himself in a world where comfort and 'happiness' are deemed more important than questioning and thought. Like George Orwell's 1984, FAHRENHEIT 451 survives because of its eternal message, its strong writing, and its insights into the future--a future that Bradbury might recognize as something similar to our own present. In an era where book reading declines each year, and where a greater and greater percentage of those books sold are best-sellers by a few favorite writers, Bradbury's message is certainly worth another look.<br />Two characters make this novel--Guy Montag, with his doubts but also his hopes for the future, and fire chief Captain Beatty. Beatty knows the truth, knows more about books than Montag or even most intellectuals, and is willing to argue against them--but does so using arguments from the books themselves. Beatty's arguments are subtle and definitely worth stopping and thinking about--only if we are willing to pay Beatty's price can intellectual freedom survive and Beatty is right--few are really willing to pay.<br />Although most reviewers focus on the book burning and anti-intellectualism that Bradbury describes in FAHRENHEIT 451, there is also a strong anti-war message that runs through this novel and much of Bradbury's early work. As in our own era, wars are expected to be easy and cheap, at least for the Americans. Bradbury argues that expectations don't always make the truth.ssage that runs through this novel and much of Bradbury's early work. As in our own era, wars are expected to be easy and cheap, at least for the Americans. Bradbury argues that expectations don't always make the truth.	2003-05-05
1134860:US	49115690	R15IKR0BYSOTBN	0971714819	828342198	Dice Angel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great writing, characters--Las Vegas comes alive	James Delaney, Jr. better known as Jimmy D, owns a successful bar in Las Vegas, has a great relationship with his young daughter, and thinks he has his drinking and gambling problems under control. But when a break-in at the bar turns into something more serious, everything begins to unravel. The bar has been looted, the IRS is after Jimmy for more than he can possibly afford, and the IRS lien on the business means he can't even borrow against it. Drinking starts to look more atractive. But gambling isn't an option--Jimmy has learned one thing for sure, he has no luck on the gambling tables of Las Vegas. Even when a homeless friend gives him the battered business card of Amaris, the 'Dice Angel,' Jimmy has learned how to say know. Gambling nearly ruined his life and cost him his marriage. But what other options can he pursue?<br />Author Brian Rouff delivers a truly fine read in DICE ANGEL. Jimmy comes off as real and human, battling his problems, the IRS bureaucracy, and himself as he gets more and more deeply into trouble. Rouff does a good job letting Jimmy get close to a solution, only to see it twist away before he can grasp it. Jimmy's relationships with his daughter, his employees, and eventually with Amaris too are human and enjoyable.<br />Rouff has a good feel for Las Vegas and the people who make it their home. For them, and for those of us reading DICE ANGEL, Las Vegas comes alive in a very real way.<br />I enjoyed DICE ANGEL a lot and recommend it without hesitation.	2003-05-05
1134896:US	49115690	R2BA0GIU1VM82Z	0441848303	795787338	Northworld	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well developed and complex military SF with a fantasy elemen	Commissioner Nils Hansen, policeman of the 'Consensus' is drafted from his normal job as head of an elite futuristic swat team to track down a mysteriously missing planet--the Northworld of the series title. Hansen finds himself dropped into a series of worlds, some peaceful, some futuristically militaristic, and one a sort of medieval teutonic/Icelandic fantasy with artifically intelligent armor and weapon systems. Hansen has the military skills to stay alive under virtually any circumstances, but when these circumstances include literal gods, the equation is definitely changed.<br />Author David Drake uses Icelandic myth has the basis for this story and it works. Hansen is a little too perfect, but the Icelandic elements provide some plot twists that probably wouldn't occur to the average writer (and certainly not to the average reader). The ambiguous ending develops a bit of a zip.<br />Drake is at his best in action scenes, and there are plenty in NORTHWORLD. Hansen's futuristic SWAT action at the beginning and his military restructuring of the wild norse-style warriors form the highlights of the story. Cut-aways to the gods are occasionally confusing (the doings of the gods are always confusing though, so we can blame this on Drake's source material), and don't add as much to the story as they could. The final action scene is a bit of a let-down given the superior battles that had occured earlier, but Drake's conclusion left me feeling satisfied--but wanting more.	2003-05-05
1148702:US	49115690	R10M0L2KTGQMXZ	1590580168	983334351	Beware the Solitary Drinker	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Cynical but with hope shining through--very nice	Bartender Brian McNulty lives in a strange New York world populated by drunks, unemployed actors, and ex-communists still searching for the revolution. When beautiful young Angelina walks into his bar, he is instantly smitten--as is every other man in the bar. Angelina is troubled and sexually inappropriate (with everyone but Brian, it seems). But that doesn't make her murder any easier to take. When Angelina's sister comes into town, she convinces Brian to help her investigate.<br />The investigation turns into a tour of Brian's bizarre world. Everyone has a secret that they won't share with the cops, or even with their bartender. Worse, Brian's investigation seems to make things worse. Everyone is threatened by Brian, even if they aren't the ones who actually committed this particular murder.<br />Author Cornelius Lehane delivers a thoughtful and probing look into a strange society. Brian's leftist views are carefully modulated--he knows that some of them are silly but they are part of his upbringing and self-concept. His relationship with Kevin, his son, develops a little late but adds emotional resonance to the story.<br />BEWARE THE SOLITARY DRINKER will appeal to fans of film noire. It combines cynicism with just a hint of a hopeful world view. I found this a charming story by a first-time author. Check it out.	2003-04-23
1149911:US	49115690	R3C6PSHNMTL1OS	1551666812	870094489	Picture Me Dead	Books	3	1	1	N	N	well written but coincidence & unsympathetic romance mar	Ashley Montaigue may only be a police trainee, but when an old friend is nearly killed in an auto accident, she knows that it was no true accident. Stuart would never use drugs. She tries to get handsome police detective Jake Dilessio to help, but he merely tells her to back off. Jake may be a handsome hunk who sends her hormones into overdrive, but he is an arrogant chauvinistic pig as well. Jake has never forgiven himself for his ex-partner's death--a death that the police have never solved. Ashley brings up all of his protective instincts. And when a new murder, so closely mirroring a years-old serial killer spree turns up, Jake's nightmares won't let up.<br />Author Heather Graham delivers an intriguing host of red herrings in this romantic suspense thriller. I found myself turned off by the heavy use of coincidence and the pure stupidity of the criminals (but then, most criminals are stupid so this may not be a fair criticism), but Graham kept the mystery pacing up. The swamps and everglades of the Florida setting seemed very real and added to the suspense element. Hunky Jake, hanging around in his shorts and not much else fit mouth-wateringly into the scene.<br />Am I the only one who thinks that the romantic interest between these two was a little forced?	2003-04-22
1154965:US	49115690	R3KNUR5WQU87WW	0786867124	816088843	Murder In the Hearse Degree: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well written, interesting with darkly comic touch	Undertaker Hitchcock Sewell runs into an old flame--a woman with a story. The woman's missing nanny turns up dead and Hitchcock dragoons his private investigator buddy Pete into helping him. The trail of the dead girl gets turns messy, with political corruption, questionable religious organizations, and stories of child abuse coming into the picture. Still, between embalming the occasional customer and chasing after a multitude of attractive females, Hitchcock sticks to his investigation.<br />Author Tim Cockey uses Hitchcock's introspection to inject a sardonic humor into a serious mystery. Be careful. Picking up a novel with a title like MURDER IN THE HEARSE DEGREE might lead you to expect belly laughs. Instead, Cockey deals up an assortment of wry grins. Inclusion of ex-wife Julia, 12 year-old Darryl, and aging aunt Billie add a touch of humor but seem sometimes slightly forced.<br />The novel is set in Baltimore and Anapolis, Maryland, and Cockey, a Baltimore native, delivers the real feel for the place, down to the corruption that has never quite been eliminated from the Free State.<br />Smooth writing and an intriguing story compell the reader through this fast-paced murder mystery.	2003-04-17
1167667:US	49115690	R2CCX2MTAZTHO8	1575668408	3993281	Wed And Buried: A Laura Fleming Mystery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cute and funny mystery	Laura Fleming and her husband Richard return to Laura's hometown in North Carolina to show off their 7-month-old baby and to share in the festivities for her aging Aunt Maggie who just eloped. But the elopement hid something serious. Someone has been trying to kill Big Bill Walters, Maggie's new husband. Laura has a reputation as the best amateur detective in North Carolina. Between nursing the baby and changing its diapers (and frequent sneaking away for private moments with husband Richard), Laura finds time to interview the long list of suspects that a powerful and wealthy man like Big Bob is certain to amass.<br />Author Toni L. P. Kelner delivers a witty and folksy story with characters that feel real and true. The list of suspects includes Big Bob's fawning son, his bitter daughter-in-law, a hermit with a mother fixation, and a police officer's girlfriend. Any of these are possibilities, but Laura suspects that there is another secret being hidden. And Laura is dogged in her pursuit of secrets. Richard's Shakespear quotes may occasionally seem just a little over the top (does anyone really go around talking like that), and frequent mystery readers will guess the killer, but the entire story is meant to be over the top--these 'flaws' only add to the charm.<br />WED AND BURIED is a cute and funny story.	2003-04-07
1168992:US	49115690	R1UI4PEZVRUN26	067003200X	968675587	Aunt Dimity Takes a Holiday	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting but not enough detecting	When her friend finds that she is a Vicountess and is called to the family estate, American Lori Shepherd agrees to go along. When the friend mentions murder, Lori packs the notebook that allows her to communicate with the ghost of Aunt Dimity, a woman who knows everything about manners, who is who is English nobility, and has helped Lori solve several mysteries in the past.<br />On the manner, Lori finds that her friend's fears may not be irrational. Steven, nephew to the Earl, has been getting death threats and is injured when his horse unexpectedly balks at a jump. There certainly are a lot of suspects, including Nell, Lori's friend's daughter who may wish to preserve her father's inheritance, the evil lawyer Gina, who may also have designs on Lori's husband Bill, and a long-forgotten vallet. Using her own energy and Dimity's common sense (Lori seems to tragically lack any of this), Lori uncovers hints of motive, opportunity, and method.<br />Author Nancy Atherton has created an engaging and multidimensional character in Lori Shepherd. The supernatural element is well integrated and furthers the mystery rather than simply solving it through magical means. I would have liked to see Lori do more solving, however, rather than simply finding an assortment of clues. Lori and Dimity both ended up too much bystanders than key actors in the solution to the mystery.	2003-04-06
1171532:US	49115690	R3NCVWNKIBOOR7	1590580508	386484621	Prairie Gothic (Mad Dog & Englishman Series)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting and funny	Mad Dog, a half Cheyenne self-appointed shaman is only following the wishes of his recently deceased fellow Native American to give him an authentic burial. That's when someone starts taking shots at him. In the meantime, his brother, Sheriff (Englishman) English is called to a nursing home with a report of a kidnapped baby. While a blizzard rages, Englishman needs to find his brother, discover how the baby was killed, and head off an increasingly crazy group of locals.<br />Author J. M. Hayes delivers an often funny story that mixes reality and fantasy seamlessly. Mad Dog may really have shaman powers--or maybe he is just disturbed. Dorothy from the nursing home swears by her ruby sneakers--and calls Mad Dog 'the wizard.' Dorothy may know what happened to the body, and even where the baby came from, but does she also know more. Because there are deep secrets in this rural Kansas towns--secrets that go back to nazi Germany and before.<br />I suspect that Hayes had a good time writing this book. I certainly had a good time reading it.	2003-04-03
1172634:US	49115690	RGTKBN98W67BH	0312300891	590668191	The Widow of Jerusalem (Fools' Guild)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Emotionally rich and exciting	Richard the Lion Hearted is slaughtering Saracen captives and plotting to seize Jerusalem without the slightest hope of being able to hold it once teh crusaders return to Europe and the Fools Guild desparately attempts to introduce reason into the equation. A key to the entire region is the city of Tyre--easilly defensible, rich, and with strategic value, Tyre is ruled by Conrad and his wife Isabelle, Queen of Jerusalem. A strong ruler like Conrad, one who planned to stay in the holy land rather than simply fight there, could be a key to peace with Saladin and a continued Christian presence in Palestine. But the forces against Conrad, perhaps including his own queen, are powerful indeed. Could fools Theophilos and Scarlet the Dwarf hope to cobble together a motley of self-interest that can create a peaceful middle-east?<br />Author Alan Gordon gives an intriguing spin to a fascinating and horrible period of history. The old Byzantine Empire is struggling but has not yet had its heart ripped out by the fourth crusade. Richard is the master of battle but is also a master of gratuitous violence. And the misnamed King of Jerusalem (because the crusader states had lost that city) is dead leaving no clear heir and too many claimants. But THE WIDOW OF JERUSALEM is not merely interesting as a historical view. Gordon makes the characters, including the historical nobility and the fictional jesters and servants, come alive. The mysterious death of a young woman propells Theophilos and Scarlet's band of trainee fools into an intrigue that will alter the control of this land, and the hearts of many.<br />THE WIDOW OF JERUSALEM is written as a recounting of a story by Theophilos to his wife Claudia. Although this style tends to distance the reader from the story, in this case, it worked, allowing Gordon to introduce occasional side-notes of levity into the telling. Fans of historical fiction who have yet to make the acquaintence of Theophilos and the Jester's Guild will definitely want to do so. Gordon fans will be overjoyed to see Theophilos and Claudia in action yet again.tely want to do so. Gordon fans will be overjoyed to see Theophilos and Claudia in action yet again.	2003-04-02
1174847:US	49115690	R2B12HNEJP0IZQ	0505525240	496362927	Shadow Crossing	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Exciting futuristic space adventure	Life was boring for Celie Cameron--one milk run after another. While she wouldn't go back to the problems she's escaped, she wouldn't mind something interesting--at least that was what she thought before she found herself in the middle of a firefight. Celie learns that the sector is not as sedate as she had imagined--and that someone is systematically denying some people basic food and medical requirements. When Celie finds herself on a spaceship with an arrogant prince and a handsome cyborg, she decides that she can finally indulge in the sexual desires she's repressed for so long. After all, while she could never trust a man, she has nothing to fear from a cyborg--does she?<br />Rurick has uncovered evidence of a plot against justice and the legitimate authorities of the sector--but it couldn't have happened if some of those authorities weren't deeply involved. He's got to find the truth--and help the innocent people who are suffering. When Celie walks into his life and starts demanding sexual satisfaction, he is torn between his desire for her and the secret he holds. Celie can't trust men and she really shouldn't be trusting Rurick either.<br />Author Catherine Spangler writes an exciting saga of space ships, sabotage, secret identities, and cuddly aliens. Rurick is a powerfully alpha hero, a man who can keep up with a woman who has smuggled--and worse. If any male can break through the tough shield that Celie has built, it is Rurick, but she's determined not to let him. SHADOW CROSSING is a true romance, but it offers cross-over appeal to fans of the STAR WARS genre. SHADOW CROSSING is a part of Spangler's SHIELDER universe, but each of the books stands alone.	2003-03-31
1180719:US	49115690	R2B7NL4PI1RYXK	0553801589	854651635	The Tail of the Tip-Off: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Entertaining story of rural Virginia--and cats and dogs	Life in rural Virginia seems simple, committee meetings to determine whether the church can afford new carpeting, snowfall, University of Virginia woman's basketball, and casual meetings of women to discuss the weather, children, and relationships. But these superficial goings on don't completely hide the reality of adultery, crime, and murder. When post office manager Harry Harristeen sees a construction contractor die of an apparent heart attack, and then learns that it was a cleverly disguised murder, she resolves to find out the truth. Harry is aided in her relentless curiosity by her two cats and one dog, all superhumanly intelligent but saddened by humans' inability to understand what they say oh too clearly.<br />Harry has her own problems--problems relating to her ex-husband, Fair, and the woman that Fair once had an affair with (Boomboom). She can't get Fair's unfaithfulness out of her system, but she doesn't want to let him go either. As for Boomboom, Harry likes to believe the worst of her, despite Boomboom's assurances that the affair happened only after Harry and Fair had separated.<br />Author Rita Mae Brown, along with her cat, Sneaky Pie Brown, create a compelling tone of rural life and death. Brown details a social structure that seems to have survived intact from pre-civil war days with women dominating the important events of the society and men providing entertainment and heartache. Pets, of course, are hugely important and the animal insights into humanity, religion, and nature, add to the enjoyment.<br />Brown resrains her pets in this story--there are no pet-driven vehicles, for example, but the animals manage to save the day once again as Harry's impetuous curiosity comes close to getting her killed.	2003-03-26
1184833:US	49115690	R2VHIH4D1Q036W	1590580303	742842242	Desert Wives (Lena Jones Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Convincing detail in polygamous cult	Private Detective Lena Jones helps rescue a 13-year old girl from her non-custodial father and the man the father has promised his daughter in marriage to. But when the prospective groom, a 'prophet' in a polygamous Mormon sect, ends up killed, Jones's client is the only suspect. And Jones knows that that local sheriff won't go looking for any other suspects. He appears to sympathise with the polygamous rather than with the abused children. Jones knows what it is like to be a deserted child and goes underground in the cult compound, pretending to be one of the wives.<br />Author Betty Webb writes about the evils of polygamy and child abuse with authority while fully integrating these into an intriguing mystery. The prophet made plenty of enemies and had enough money to make even his best friend want to murder him. But who would he have trusted enough to lend his own shotgun to? Jones finds that the code of silence is in effect in the compound. The men barely talk to the women, and the women live in fear of more abuse, and in fear of one another as they scrabble for what little authority any woman can hold in a male dominated sect.<br />Serious mystery readers will quickly guess the killer, but will want to keep reading to see how Jones finally guesses the identity. Jones' terrible taste in men makes me glad she's not my detective, but it also makes for a more interesting read.	2003-03-22
1185028:US	49115690	R3VOD1EJUZSPB0	034540937X	744713341	Stars and Stripes Triumphant	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Good what-if scenario, weak military	The uneasy peace between the United States, reunited after England foolishly attacked both parties during the American Civil War, seems destined to be shortlived and Undersecretary Fox and General Sherman take advantage of a Russian aristocrat's offer to spy on the British. Sherman comes up with a plan for invasion--a plan made possible by several wonderful inventions by John Ericsson (inventor of the Monitor in our own history). When the British push too hard on America, trying to forbid cotton exports to France and Germany, and refuse to stop raiding the newly independent Irish, Abraham Lincoln unleashes the U.S. army under Generals Sherman, Lee, and Grant.<br />The best alternate history takes a single decision and reverses it. In the STARS & STRIPES series, author Harry Harrison reverses the British decision not to intervene in the American Civil War, together with the monsterous mistake of attacking both sides. That the two sides could have come together if attacked by a common foe is not beyond conception and makes for an interesting historical alternative.<br />The first half of this novel consists of Sherman's spying venture. Harrison's writing is tight and he throws in enough danger to keep the reader fascinated. The largely militaristic second half is somewhat less interesting depending as it does on Ericsson's invention of the internal combustion engine, the decision to use this engine to drive tanks through England, and on completely ineffectual resistance on the part of the British. Sadly, the British use of concentration camps to hold their possibly disloyal Irish workers sounds possible given the historic contempt that the English held for their Irish cousins.<br />Am I the only one who finds disturbing parallels with current (2003) political discussions and decisions on going to war. Intentional or not, I think that STARS & STRIPES holds some interesting lessons and thoughts for today's world.	2003-03-22
1188869:US	49115690	RPK4YCAULA74I	0425188388	263560138	The Dogfather: A Dog Lover's Mystery	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Funny, good dogs, good mystery. A fine read	Mobster Enzio Guarini loves dogs. So when his new puppy doesn't behave, he sends his henchmen out to bring him Holly Winter, dog trainer and fellow dog lover. Holly knows enough about the mob, and about Guarini's reputation, to accept the job, but when one of Guarini's assistants is killed during a training session, Holly knows she's in over her head. And Guarini's attempts to help her, including intimidating an A.K.C. judge and possibly blowing up her car, let her know that she's in trouble. Of course, for Holly, trouble is a given. As if the mob weren't bad enough, she's got hostile FBI agents camped out front and an ex-boyfriend who seems to want to reconnect but somehow keeps missing.<br />Author Susan Conant writes a funny and entertaining mystery. The dogs are well integrated and are real dogs (not super-dogs who talk, solve mysteries by themselves, and otherwise dominate the story). Holly continually uses her dog training insights to 'help' her deal with people, adding to the humor but also increasing Holly's depth of personality. Of course, her problems with boyfriends, the FBI, and the mob increase the author's sympathy for Holly as she tries to figure out the right thing to do.<br />Conant's writing is funny and highly readable. THE DOGFATHER is perfect light reading, a cute mystery, and will appeal even to readers who don't care much about dogs (dog fans will love it).	2003-03-19
1189442:US	49115690	R3TBE9397LQ74K	0380978997	195350751	Acorna's Rebels	Books	1	5	15	N	N	Yawn	I wanted to like this book being a fan of both authors. Even after the first hundred pages of nothing happening, I had hope. But, in the end it's a cute cat and unicorn girl story without any particularly interesting characters, adventure, or reason to be written.<br />Plot summary, Acorna, unicorn girl, is hijacked to a strange planet by her cat. Once there, she cures more cats, discovers that the apparently nice guy is really a very bad guy who wants to poison everyone because--uh, well, no good reason, he just does. But Acorna is good to go and has lots of help. In the meantime, she wishes she could find her boyfriend.<br />Yawn.	2003-03-18
1190976:US	49115690	R2I271KOTYK2Z5	0786710527	55537169	Hollow Crown	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Satisfying and very British	In 1936, Hitler is marching the Germans toward war, Franco is beating back the Republicans in Spain, and the English upper class is trying to hold onto a terrible secret--the new King, Edward, has fallen in love with a divorced woman, Wallis Simpson and is talking about marrying her. Lord Edward Corinth is called in to help with a vital task. The King's former mistress has stolen letters the King wrote to Wallis--letters that go beyond matters of the heart to discuss his sympathies toward the Nazi cause. If they fall into the wrong hands, not only the King, but the entire English monarchy may fall.<br />Edward agrees to help, but before he can persuade his friend to return the letters, she is killed and the letters vanish. Edward is the leadins suspect. Together with his friend, communist and newspaper reporter Verity Browne, Edward tries to get to the bottom of the mystery. But, can he trust even his friend Verity or will she, when she learns the truth, tell the Communist Party the truth about the letters and lead to the very overthrow that Edward has tried to prevent?<br />Author David Roberts writes convincingly about the fascinating period between the first and second world wars. The depression has radicalized all of Europe and both fascists and communists march and clash in the streets. With its message of power and elitism, fascism is popular with the upper class, even the King. Verity's struggles with her loyalties to country and party ring true. Edward is charmingly elite, yet cannot avoid the attraction toward the energetic Verity.<br />HOLLOW CROWN combines a critical period of history with convincing and detailed characters and a solid mystery to deliver a satisfying and compelling read.	2003-03-17
1191262:US	49115690	R27AJX7V8C1BXG	0060096195	825975444	The Boy Next Door	Books	4	5	5	N	N	funny but lies needed more justification	Melissa (Mel) Fuller really cares about Wynona Rider and other celebrities, as well as her 80-something next door neighbor. When the neighbor gets hit on the head, Mel takes care of the pets, at least until the woman's nephew arrives. When the nephew finally shows up, it's definitely love. All of the stories about Max can't be true because Mel is sure that he's the nicest and most caring guy. After what she's been through with men, she really deserves someone who cares about animals and who won't cheat on her or lie to her. Even if he has maxed out his credit cards.<br />John Trent (of the billionaire Trents) is just doing his friend Max a favor. While Max vacations with a super-model, John can ride in, help out with the pets, and let the aunt know that Max really cared, assuming she ever recovers from her coma. When John realizes that he's falling for Mel, it's too late to just tell the truth. He starts looking for the perfect time and place, but that can be tricky with a woman who has been burned by men in the past.<br />Author Meggin Cabot delivers narative of THE BOY NEXT DOOR as a series of e-mails sent between Mel, Mel's co-workers, Max, John, and John's family. This device makes for fast reading with lots of white space and no need for introspection or dialogue. Surprisingly, it works. Cabot's light style and clever sense of humor keeps the reader going and laughing. I would have liked to see a little (okay, maybe a lot) more justification for the initial lie--I mean, couldn't John have simply told her, 'uh, listen, my friend Max didn't want to seem like a heel when he couldn't come so he put me up to this. But now that I've met you....' Some better justification for continuing the lie would definitely have helped.<br />THE BOY NEXT DOOR is pure chick-lit. Women complain among themselves that all of the men are married, gay, or dating supermodels, while living in New York and working in the literary scene (Mel is a gossip reporter for a New York journal). Fans of the genre will definitely enjoy THE BOY and those new to it will find a lot to like here.Fans of the genre will definitely enjoy THE BOY and those new to it will find a lot to like here.	2003-03-17
1197739:US	49115690	R1CZ3HNZO35N8X	0312280912	531262608	Murder on the Caronia: A Mystery Featuring George Porter Dillman and Genevieve Masefield	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Story of a fascinating era	In the glory days of the Atlantic steamships in the early 20th century, the ultra-wealthy mix with criminals in the first class section of the great ships. The Cunard line has hired detectives Genevieve Masefield and George Porter to work their ships--this time the beautiful Caronia. In general, crime on the ships is limited to pick-pockets and drunken fights in the lower class sections. On this voyage, however, the purser suspects drug smuggling, and Scotland Yard policemen are escourting home a couple accused of murdering the man's wife and fleeing to the new world. Somehow, Genevieve and George must get to the bottom of all of the mysteries, while keeping their identities a secret and blending with the mogels who make up the aristocracy of the new world of capitalism.<br />Author Conrad Allen is convincing in his descriptions of these great steamships, providing enough historical detail to fascinate while not overwhelming the story itself. As always, Genevieve finds herself the target of unwanted attention, this time by a young professional bicyclist (perhaps the Lance Armstrong of his day), who had lived for nothing but his training, but can now think of nothing but Genevieve. When one of the Scotland Yard policemen is killed, both Genevieve and George have more important things to worry about than an unwanted attraction--once again, there has been a murder on the ship on which they travel. Unless they can find the killer, their careers as ship detectives will be over.<br />MURDER ON THE CARONIA is a pleasant read with entertaining, although sometimes flat, characters. The drug smuggling plot seemed to be undone by relative stupidity on the part of the smugglers rather than by any intelligence on the part of the detectives, but perhaps this is to be expected by smugglers. Allen's smooth writing and the fascinating environment of early 20th century steamships kept me turning the pages.	2003-03-11
1202599:US	49115690	R3UN1NGKFD3HYG	0373169590	310031757	The Prince's Texas Bride: A Royal Twist (Harlequin American Romance, No 959)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Charming fairy tale	Prince Alexi of Belgovia (a mythical former Soviet republic) doesn't have much patience for boring makework. While touring Texas, he yields to impulse and joins a beautiful waitress on a trip across Texas leaving responsibility and his entourage behind (see THE PRINCE'S COWBOY DOUBLE for the story of what happened to his assistant).<br />Ex-waitress and accountant-to-be Kerry Lynn can't ignore the attraction she feels toward the handsome prince, nor can she deny feelings that grow beyond purely physical as she spends time with him and learns how caring he is. But she knows, and Alexi knows, that their romance is a temporary thing. Too soon, he will have to return to his responsibilities and marry an appropriate European of noble birth. Newly re-established kingdoms just can't bring in Texas brides.<br />When Alexi learns that Kerry became pregnant as a result of their brief romance, his world-view changes. He wants to marry Kerry, to bring their child into the world together. But can Kerry trust his change of heart? Or will he break her heart again, abandoning her for some new adventure, just as he abandoned his staff for an adventure with her?<br />Author Victoria Chancellor delivers a charming fairy tale. Everything has been easy for Alexi, and Kerry has learned to rely on herself, never depending on a man for anything. Only by learning to trust, and to stick with things when they get hard can the two create a life together. But can the two overcome their pasts?	2003-03-07
1202715:US	49115690	R1RNO2VO9T5SJP	0373169558	1964853	The Prince's Cowboy Double: A Royal Twist (Harlequin American Romance, No 955)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful and funny	Lady Gwendolyn (Wendy) Reed has a problem--her prince has disappeared and she'd got to come up with an alternative. Fortunately, a Texas cowboy looks the part. Unfortunately, he's a real Texan, complete with accent, Texas ways, and a certain charm that breaches the barriers she's built around her heart. Rancher Hank McCauley is intrigued by the pretty English woman and open to an adventure--but he's sure that is all. He's certainly not looking for a woman and definitely not looking for love. Still, as Wendy trains him, Hank's Texas nature gets him to tease her to open up, to try new things, and to take a chance. When it comes down to it, though, does she dare give up everything--her job, the respect of her family, and all of her friends, to take a chance with a Texan she's only known for a few days?<br />Author Victoria Chancellor has created a charming and funny story. Wendy's issues and dilemma feel real. Hank's Texasisms are endearing, sexy, and authentic. Too often, romantic humor seems to come only from the humorous situation. Chancellor's sly wit shows through the entire novel.	2003-03-07
1205156:US	49115690	R2XOBFPPOC1E2A	0345450353	507779835	Drowning World: A Novel of the Commonwealth	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Interesting world but simplistic solutions	It rains all the time on the dismal world of Fluvan, and fast-evolving parasite forms make survival an always dubious proposition. But that doesn't stop the natives from wishing to get rid of the fast-breeding Deyzara. Generations before, the Commonwealth, imported the elephant-trunked Deyzara to handle the work that the proud Sakuntala natives refused to undertake. Now the Deyzara run the shops, own the businesses, and enjoy closer relations with the human overlords than do the Sakuntala themselves. Genocide will bring down horrible consequences, yet simply ignoring the threat will lead to improverishment and eventual elimination of the Sakuntala from their own world.<br />Human Administrator Lauren Matthias has her hands full. Not only is the decades-old animosity between Sakuntala and Deyzara threatening to break into genocidal warfare, a human bio-prospector has been lost and his ship, impossibly, isn't sending signals. Finally, her hormones are being stirred to a tizzy by hunk prospector Sethwyn Case. Of course, the Commonwealth's enemies, the Aann, are always willing to take advantage of any problems, and problems Matthias, and the entire planet, have in plenty.<br />Author Alan Dean Foster creates an interesting world with Fluvan and its ultra-competitive life forms. By switching back and forth from the political (in the person of Matthias) and personal (in the person of the lost prospector and the Deyzara/Sakuntala rescue team sent to find him), Foster lets the reader see the world's problems at multiple levels.<br />In many ways, the political scenerio being played out is reminiscent of several earth-conflicts (the plight of the Indians brought to the African continent and abandoned by the Imperialists who brought them there comes to mind), raising the power of DROWNING WORLD, but also increasing Foster's responsibility in dealing with the problems in a convincing way. Instead, the Deyzara refugee camps become minor annoyances with bad smells, the issue of Deyzara population growth is never dealt with, and a timely discovery manages to defuse much of the tension.<br />DROWNING WORLD starts out strongly, delivers an interesting world with emotionally compelling parallels to our own recent history, but finally shortchanges the resolution.of Deyzara population growth is never dealt with, and a timely discovery manages to defuse much of the tension. <br />DROWNING WORLD starts out strongly, delivers an interesting world with emotionally compelling parallels to our own recent history, but finally shortchanges the resolution.	2003-03-05
1206417:US	49115690	R2LWGLIRVATS3X	0060011904	452541514	Small Town: A Novel (Block, Lawrence)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Well written and interesting, but fllawed	Author John Blair Creighton is accused of strangling a woman he accompanied to her appartment--he is pretty sure he's innocent, but his memory of the evening is vague. A man whose life was destroyed by the 9/11 attacks decides that New York can only be revived by sacrifice, and nominates himself as the priest. A woman runs an art gallery showing works by the insane and pursues the most outrageous sexual fantasies. A former police commissioner finds that woman's sexual games to be more important than any of his ambitions.<br />Author Lawrence Block combines these elements into a wide-ranging tale of post-9/11 New York. For some, the changes are terrible. For others, like the commissioner, they are mixed blessings. For Creighton, everything comes up roses. Being accused of a terrible crime is good for his writing, good for the interest that publishers shower on him, and certainly good for his sex life (could this be a writer's secret fantasy?). Block has been a mainstay of the mystery novel for decades and his writing is highly polished and readable, his insights into humanity fully developed.<br />What SMALL TOWN lacked, at least to me, was a compelling story line or character arc. The 'carpenter,' the man who decided that New York required a sacrifice, is the character who pulls the others together, but he lacked sympathy or a clear plan. Creighton fell into fortune rather than battling for it. Susan, the art gallery owner, found her calling, but her final development came as something of a surprise rather than a logical progression of choice and consequences.<br />Quasi-protagonist Creighton chose to write a novel based on one of his earlier short stories. To a large extent, that is what SMALL TOWN felt like--one of Block's quirky and fascinating short stories blown up far beyond its requirements. Because Block is such a fine author, he can, almost, get away with it. SMALL TOWN makes interesting reading but falls short of Block's best.	2003-03-04
1210780:US	49115690	R3M8OIPV2RJ6HC	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Shakespeare dialogue adds snap to alt history	he Spanish Armada, unhampered by the storm and fire ships that saved England in our history, landed and England lies conquered beneath the Spanish (and Irish) boot. Protestantism is persecuted, Elizabeth languishes in the Tower of London, and spies are everywhere, searching out any remaining supporters of the old English order. Yet London remains restive, even after ten years of Spanish rule, looking for a spark to sent it into revolt. English nobleman Lord Burghley decides that Philip's death and a new play by Shakespeare are just the sparks needed to ignite the flames of freedom. Of course, for Shakespeare, any flames might just come from the Inquisition rather than from freedom.<br />Alternate History master Harry Turtledove combines historical research with an abundance of Shakespearian paraphrases to deliver an entertaining and plausible tale. Certainly England's survival from the Spanish Armada was viewed as a miracle at the time, and certainly a Spanish victory would have changed the world. Setting a story in the world of Shakespeare and Marlowe gives the story instant appeal and the author a challenge to depict the Bard as a witty and human man. Turtledove lives up to the challenge. I especially enjoyed his depictions of the exploits of Spanish soldier and playwright Lupe de Vega.<br />For me, at least, the magic of alternate history is seeing how the world is changed by a slightly different turn of fate (hence the success of the Spanish Armada). The point of RULED BRITANNIA, however, is the English resistance to Spanish rule. The end result, should the revolt succeed, is a return to history much as we knew it. Whether a revolutionary play could set off London is certainly debatable but at least tenable. Less so, to me, is the foolishness of Philip leaving Elizabeth in the tower rather than in the Spanish equivalent. Would Elizabeth have dared put Mary Queen of Scots in Edinburgh?<br />The power of RULED BRITANNIA comes from Turtledove's obvious enjoyment of Shakespeare's dialogue, characters such as the word-mangling Constable Strawberry, and Shakespeare's fellow dramatists Kemp and Burbage.of Shakespeare's dialogue, characters such as the word-mangling Constable Strawberry, and Shakespeare's fellow dramatists Kemp and Burbage.	2003-03-01
1214424:US	49115690	RQDO2VMU2FZEZ	0451458966	908642856	Devil's Bargain	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Exciting and emotionally rich story of 3rd Crusade	Richard the Lionhearted has won battles, but victory in his Crusade is far from clear. Saladin and his brother Ahmad command powerful armies of Islam--Arabs, Turks, Egyptians, and Kurds, all sworn to defend the holy city of Jerusalem. More dangerous still, to both Crusader and Jihad, is the Old Man of the Mountain, Sinan, chief of the Assassins. The dark lord he serves would destroy both Richard and Saladin. And Richard's mother, Eleanor, has promised Sinan Richard's soul if he will help Richard win Jerusalem.<br />Richard's bastard sister Sioned, heir to the magics of Britain and the Celts, along with Richard's moorish servant Mustafa, stand against the assassins and the dark magic that they command. Yet, for Mustafa, aid for Richard means aid for the enemies of his faith. And will Sioned, relatively untrained in the ways of magic, be able to confront both Eleanor and Sinan? Or will her growing love for Ahmad force her to turn against the family that has always denied her?<br />Author Judith Tarr has created an emotionally compelling and exciting story of the third crusade. Her depiction of Richard, a noble warrior who holds the seeds of magic within him but denies them, is convincing and sympathetic. Sioned, with her celtic magics and her love for Achmad, is attractively conflicted. Mustafa is probably the most interesting character, uniquely able to penetrate both Islam and Crusader camps and learn secrets that swing the course of history.<br />As Tarr notes in the Author's Note, the Third Crusade was something of a let-down. It petered out without resolving anything except for Europe's inability to unite long enough to accomplish anything. Yet, with a few shifts, it could have led to a decisively different present--and Tarr's magic certainly delivers those shifts. One major glitch stood out--why, exactly, did Ahmad visit Sinan and put himself in the Assassin's debt? Surely he could have accomplished everything Sinan did without the risk to his own soul. In this case, I think Tarr's author-desire to put more at stake detracted rather than added to the story. Still, DEVIL'S BARGAIN more than redeems this one flaw delivering an exciting and satisfying read.is case, I think Tarr's author-desire to put more at stake detracted rather than added to the story. Still, DEVIL'S BARGAIN more than redeems this one flaw delivering an exciting and satisfying read.	2003-02-26
1215123:US	49115690	R9FEDUMDYYKDK	0741413892	21618571	Canceled Courtship	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Charming and entertaining	When she arrives in London for her season, one of the first things Cecilia Sentenell sees is Justin, Earl of Arandale flaunting his mistress in public. Regency England is a hotbed of debauchery and men behaving badly, but Cecilia wants better for herself. She would rather have no husband than a husband who would keep mistresses, gamble, and party with the depraved Lords of the ton. When Arandale inexplicably decides to make Cecilia as his wife, it doesn't take her a minute to let him know that she'll decline that honor. Only, once she's done that, and Arandale turns on his famous charm, she wonders whether she's acted too quickly in cancelling his courtship.<br />Alex Shackel, her father's heir, has plans of his own for Cecilia--plans that have no place for Arandale and that result in his acquiring all of Cecilia's estate. With the help of his ally, Lady Rolande, Shackel intends to ensure that the courtship stays canceled, and that Cecilia is ruined and forced to turn to--himself. With Cecilia's father gravely ill, Cecilia finds herself wishing that she had Arandale as an friend rather than a jilted swain.<br />Author Gloria Gay delivers a charming tale of growing love in the romantic but dangerous era of regency England. Cecilia, in particular, is a sympathetic character, humanized by the love she has for her father despite her quick judgements of others. Shackel is an appropriately slimy villain, mistreating both Cecilia and his mistress.	2003-02-25
1218315:US	49115690	R38IC0PP5K2KET	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Charming fairy tale-like story	Mma Ramotswe and her assistant, Mma Makutsi have a problem--or rather a series of problems. Thanks to her impending marriage to Mr J.L.B. Matekoni, Mma Ramotswe has a chance to move the office of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, saving money. But even so, the agency is losing too much--and Makutsi would hate to have to let her assistant go. When Mr. J.L.B. Makekoni loses interest in his auto repair shop, Ramotswe sets up Mma Makutsi as assistant manager--but that doesn't deal with the issue of why Makekoni has lost interest in his shop (problem one). Then there's the government man who's convinced that his sister-in-law is trying to poison his brother (problem two). Next, there's a child found with the scent of lion on him, speaking no known language (problem three). Finally, a beauty contest manager comes to the agency with the problem of deciding which of his contestants is least likely to be connected with vice, theft, or other sponsor-offending defects (problem four). Mma Ramotswe and Mma Makutsi definitely have their hands full.<br />Author Alexander McCall Smith uses an almost fairy-tale touch to tell his story of families, culture clash, and ordinary people in Botswana, Africa. Smith emerges the reader in African urban culture immediately, letting the western reader come across differences and similarities to their own background in a natural and convincing way. His light touch (I especially liked Mma Ramotswe's description of herself as having a 'traditional' figure) adds frequent smiles to the journey.<br />MORALITY FOR BEAUTIFUL GIRLS is not a complex mystery. In particular, I would have liked to see a better integration of the lion-child into the story. It is, however, a charming story of Africa, women trying to make their way in a culture that is quickly changing yet that maintains many of the values of the past, and of simply getting along with one another as they gain deeper insights into people. MORALITY is a quick read--but if you're like me, you'll find yourself thinking about it again and again once you're done.'ll find yourself thinking about it again and again once you're done.	2003-02-23
1228894:US	49115690	R1SC9CR2NAV1WG	0345440072	31030644	Seven Dials (Charlotte and Thomas Pitt)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Excellent and insightful	When a diplomat is found murdered, it is obvious who killed him--the foreign woman whose gun lies smoking next to his body. The British Special Service is called in not to find the killer, but to protect her lover, M.P. Ryerson. The government's relationship with its Egyptian 'protectorate' has been uneasy and Ryerson is the one man in a position to balance the Empire's interests. Detective Thomas Pitt might not like his job, but he's got to do it. Except that nothing about this case is exactly what it appears to be.<br />While Pitt is looking for the truth behind the obvious, his servant Gracie and wife Charlotte are investigating a completely different, but equally baffling problem. The brother of one of Gracie's friends has disappeared, forgetting his sister's birthday and his other obligations. With no clear case for the police, Charlotte turns to her aristocratic relatives to dig beneath society's veneer to learn the nasty secrets that are known but never spoken of.<br />Author Anne Perry has created a rich view of Victorian England and Empire. The brief view of Alexandria, Egypt depicts the exotic wonder of this ancient land while Perry also shows a sympathetic eye to the caste-ridden society of England itself. The coincidence that Charlotte's investigation merges with Pitt's is a bit far-fetched, but does not really marr the power of this story.<br />Pitt, his boss Narraway, and Pitt's aunt Vespasia are especially complex and interesting characters while Gracie provides a comic touch. SEVEN DIALS is entertaining and, for all its century-old setting, raises issues that remain current.	2003-02-14
1230540:US	49115690	R1RH32V8MMJD2X	0425186482	479016673	A Draught for a Dead Man (Chronicles of Isaac of Girona)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good characters, history, and mystery. Wow!	Isaac, a blind Jewish physician, and his daughter Raquel accompany their friend and his daughter to her marriage in Perpignan (Spain), only to find adventure and danger. Arnau Marca, a Spanish nobleman has been accused of smuggling contraband weapons out of the country--a capital offense in time of war. His wife bribes Arnau's way out of prison, but he is wounded in the attempt. Now, Isaac and Raquel find themselves responsible for nursing him back to health--and incidentally uncovering the truth of the men who seek to destroy him. Raquel must also dedal with her friend, Bonafilla's marriage, threatened by a brief triste with a well-spoken man they meet on the road.<br />Author Caroline Roe has created a charming tale of medieval Spain a century before the expulsion of the Jews. Combining court intrigue with everyday life in the Jewish ghettos (calls) of Spain, Roe weaves a story that combines adventure with interesting characters and old-fashioned detection. The device of a blind doctor as protagonist gives Roe a fine excuse for detailed and interesting descriptions that would otherwise be seen as author intrusion but her writing moves the story along quickly enough that the reader hardly notices.<br />A DRAUGHT FOR A DEAD MAN is an interesting and thoughtful mystery with enough emotional impact to make it ring true and a fine set of characters.	2003-02-12
1235090:US	49115690	R2Q4IO41U6CHMR	0805072233	337553683	She's Not There: A Poppy Rice Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Compelling with well developed characters	Block Island is the perfect place for FBI agent Poppy Rice to recuperate--along with her lover, ATF agent Joe Barnow. Admittedly, the law on Block Island is comprised of one aging Constable and an alcoholic state trooper, but that's all right. There was never any crime on Block Island. At least there wasn't until Poppy almost runs over the body of an overweight teenage girl twisted and tortured in death.<br />A con man has opened a camp for overweight girls on Block Island and someone is targetting the girls. Joe goes into retreat, unwilling to accept the possibility that his island harbors a serpent in its heart, so it's up to Poppy, along with alcoholic Fitzy, to get to the bottom of the case. Bumbling officials in Rhode Island and in the Center for Disease Control end up making things more difficult for Poppy.<br />Author Mary-Ann Tirone Smith writes a compelling page turner. Her descriptions of the people of this north-eastern island are convincing and three-dimensional. Poppy is sympathetic and smart, without being superwoman. I especially enjoyed the character of Fitzy--a hugely damaged individual who battles himself and his own fears.	2003-02-09
1235600:US	49115690	R1QS01B68H3BQV	0312290160	223540765	A Maze of Murders: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Kathryn Swinbrooke	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Compelling historical detail	Sir Walter Maltravers is haunted by the memory of his failure during the fall of Constantinople, and by his failure at the Battle of Towton. Despite his wealth, his beautiful wife, and the holy Lacrima Christi--a ruby said to have been formed from the blood of Jesus--he lives in agony and in guilt. When he is found dead and his jewel is stolen, Kathryn Swinbrooke is called in to administer the King's justice.<br />Danger, more murder, and more locked room mysteries confront Kathryn as she investigates. Maltravers was killed in the middle of a maze to which only he knew the secret. The jewel was kept in a locked room in a guarded monastery. A thief vanishs from a locked church. It seems that perhaps the avenging angels truly have stepped in. Certainly all of the suspects have alibies that cannot be shaken. Yet Kathryn diagnoses murder, not God's justice. She's determined to unravel the maze of death and murder and find the killer hiding in its depths.<br />Author C. L. Grace makes the middle ages come alive. Set during the English War of the Roses, A MAZE OF MURDERS convincingly describes English justice of the time, the (mixed) role of women, contemporary medicine, and the ambiguous nature of justice in a time when patriotism and treason are distinguishable only after a battle is fought and lost. Kathryn's dogged determination to solve a host of locked room mysteries is admirable and sympathetic.<br />I would have preferred to see better motivation for the final murder--which seems to exist only to give Kathryn the final clues she needs to the solution. Also, I suspect that Kathryn's mild flirtation with her fiance, Colum Murtagh, is intended to humanize Kathryn. Instead, it seemed cloying, distracting from the murder without adding anything to the story. Notwithstanding these flaws, A MAZE OF MURDER makes enjoyable reading.	2003-02-08
1237120:US	49115690	R3PG4DFZXGNDNL	0060515848	198808639	Let's All Kill Constance: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Compelling and thoughtful	Aging movie star Constance Rattigan shows up on Ray Bradbury's doorstep with a problem. Someone has dropped off an address book that Constance got rid of years before--because so many of the people in it are dead. It is a book of the dead--and a threat--especially since some of the people listed in it aren't dead, yet. Bradbury is sucked into the mystery and follows it through the streets of old Hollywood. As he and his friends investigate, they find that Constance was more than they had suspected--and more dangerous. For Constance is investigating on her own, and where she goes, death seems to follow. Could the entire thing be a setup by Constance? Or is someone systematically destroying her past--before they destroy her?<br />Author Ray Bradbury is a master at taking a simple story and revealing the layers of meaning and depth that are normally hidden and LET'S ALL KILL CONSTANCE is a fine example. In the early 1960s Hollywood where so many people are creations, Constance is the ultimate creation. What she really is underneath the Hollywood glitz, Bradbury, the others, and even Constance herself can scarcely discern. Fans of Ray Bradbury will get a kick out of seeing him come up with the ideas for several of his best and most famous works as he chases down the mystery.<br />In the final third of the book, LET'S ALL KILL CONSTANCE occasionally gets muddled in itself. Still, Bradbury brings it to a strong (if weird--but it's Bradbury so you wouldn't expect anything else) conclusion. Bradbury's strong writing and the powerful character of Constance herself carry the reader's interest and compell us through this short novel.	2003-02-07
1239276:US	49115690	R3N0IRXUV9WREC	1930846118	475425031	Black Projects, White Knights: The Company Dossiers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding insights into history and character	The 'Company' sends its immortal cyborg operatives throughout time digging up extinct life forms, destroyed artworks, and lost writings--which it then sells at a handsome profit. BLACK PROJECTS, WHITE KNIGHTS is a collection of short stories about these cyborgs and about Alex, an alien lifeform that passes as human in the 25th century.<br />Author Kage Baker delves into the thought processes and 'emotions' of her cyborgs bringing a fresh imagination to the 'lives' of these once-human creatures. Reflecting Baker's California upbringing, a majority of the stories take place in the Pismo Beach area--from the days of Spanish rule through the gold rush and the 1930s up into the future.<br />Baker's future view, most clearly seen in the connected series of stories about young 'Alec' are of overly protective social urges gone dystopic--meat, cheese, alcohol, flour, and refined sugar are all banned to protect the innocent 'consumers.' Alec becomes a pirate of sorts, yet without the extreme self-justification and self-importance of, say, an ATLAS SHRUGGED. Among the cyborg stories, those hinting at conflict within the company are highly intriguing. After all, powerful immortals without equally powerful opposition hardly make for a competitive field.<br />Baker's writing is engaging and her ability to detail insights into contemporary humans by her glimpses into the 'lives' of immortal cyborgs located in our past is outstanding.	2003-02-05
1244321:US	49115690	R2ECBUZYPC5QVU	0743435621	79101843	March to the Stars (Weber, David)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Military action on the sea, land, and space	Prince Roger, his small band of surviving human marines, and his larger group of native allies has slogged their way across a continent, built a fleet, and now have only one more continent, one high technology human base, and one spaceship to go. Or so they think. Proving once again that Murphy's law is in full force, things are about to get worse. MARCH TO THE STARS continues the series begun with MARCH UPCOUNTRY and MARCH TO THE SEA. Roger has fully matured as a fighting machine with barely a trace of the obnoxious youth that began the adventure.<br />MARCH delivers battles against a sea monster, pirates on sailing ships, an Aztec-like civilization as disciplined and organized as any that Roger and company have trained, the high-tech space port, and finally a surprisingly equipped 'merchant' ship. Authors David Weber and John Ringo deliver a carefully thought out series of military tactics and weaponry designed for each type of combatant that Roger and his marines face.<br />Weber and Ringo raise the stakes considerably at the halfway point--it is no longer enough merely to survive the planet Marduk. Instead, Roger will be forced to confront a galaxy of enemies once he emerges into 'civilized' space. This realization raises the emotional stakes as Roger realizes that his future plans for a marriage with Despreaux have become a wishful fantasy.<br />Fans of military fiction will enjoy the way Roger's native allies have progressed from pike-carrying cannon fodder to hightly skilled skirmishers who now have asparations to fight in space itself. A few author-intrusive digressions into the nature of religion and whether abortion constitutes a type of infanticide similar to that encouraged by the Baal faith and discussions of twenty-ninth century archeological discoveries pull the reader out of the fantasy without adding anything to the plot, but these are forgettable once we get back into the action.	2003-02-01
1245544:US	49115690	R3VYMBCD8DRIXT	0842330380	346319923	Crown of Thorns (Nick Barrett Mystery Series #2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Race and religion play out in the south	Nick Barrett is doing a favor for some friends tracking down an old painting brought to Charleston, South Carolina, by early settlers. Instead of a friendly antiques deal, he finds himself involved with a religious cult, a group of racists who haveto revised a terrible punishment from the days of slavery, and hints of ancient voodoo--and a mystery that the police thought solved decades before.<br />Author Sigmund Brouwer writes convincingly of a south still caught up in the evils of its past--and evil men who use the Bible for their own goals, subverting its most fundamental rules. Like the south, Barrett is conflicted--in Barrett's case between hatred for his brother and the charity he shares with Angel and Retha. Brouwer's arguments about religion sometimes pull the reader out of the story. It's okay for Barrett to have faith, but he really doesn't have to share the reasons why he's abandoned the scepticism of his youth--twice--since it doesn't advance the story.<br />CROWN OF THORNS's strength is fast-moving action as Barrett and the young women who seem to infiltrate his life are plunged from one danger into another. Author Sigmund Brouwer delivers an engaging and page turning style that draws the reader in and delivers.	2003-01-31
1245897:US	49115690	ROBOMWSUJL0SV	0373259549	878900990	One Hot Texan (Temptation, 854)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sexy Texas man needs a wife	Cole McCallum needs a wife--by tomorrow. If he can get married and stay married for six months, he'll inherit his grandmother's ranch and make enough money to get his development business back off the ground. Although Ginny White isn't the type of woman he's usually attracted to, she needs money and he's short on time. A six month business proposition looks like a win-win.<br />Ginny White has never kissed a man. Haunted by her late mother's condemnation of anything male or fun, Ginny is stepping out for the first time, actually visiting a bar for the first time when she sees Cole. She remembers him from high school but it takes three beers (her first ever) before she can summon the courage to talk to him. His business proposition solves a lot of problems for her and it isn't like she has any boyfriends to be disappointed in her.<br />The tacky Las Vegas wedding is a shock to Ginny. Even more of a shock is Cole's expectation that they have sex. Ginny might want to banish her mother's haunting voice, but that doesn't mean she didn't learn anything. She has too much respect for herself treat sex as a pure bodily function. To Cole's surprise, Ginny's refusal makes him see her in a new light. He wants her in a way he's never felt with another woman. It's going to be a rough six months.<br />Although both Cole and Ginny soon develop feelings for one another, each must deal with their own issues. Ginny must put her mother's voice and her self-effacing shyness behind her. Cole must learn to trust, to give up his fear of abandonment. Yet how can either meet their needs when each knows their marriage is a six-month affair?<br />Jane Sullivan switches from the the pure humor of her Harlequin Duets titles and the more sophisticated humor of I GOT YOU BABE (written as Jane Graves) to a more traditional Harlequin plot line (based on the 'Terms of the Will' device). Sullivan cranks up the sexual tension but retains the high-quality writing and traces of the whimsical humor that characterizes her works. ONE HOT TEXAN is a joy to read.at characterizes her works. ONE HOT TEXAN is a joy to read.	2003-01-31
1246006:US	49115690	R1QVBQ0ZQZF13B	0373690983	497102330	Risky Business	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sexy, funny, wonderful writing	Six months before, Jack Kellerman spent a wonderful weekend with a beautiful woman--who vanished from his bed while he was sleeping. When he sees Rachel on a Denver street, Jack can't resist following--and pushing himself into her life. The bond he felt went way beyond sex (although sex was certainly an important part of it), and Jack needs to see where it will take them.<br />Rachel Westover pretended to be married to Jack to help get her job at a prestigious Denver architectural firm. But she never expected to have to deal with him again. When Jack shows up at her office just as the staff is heading for a retreat at a mountain resort, Jack manages to wangle his way into the group--and she can't exactly tell her boss that she lied about the husband. But it doesn't take long before Jack starts wangling his way back into her heart as well. And Rachel knows exactly how dangerous that could be. She needs to be the good girl--and knows how dangerous taking a chance can be. And Jack is nothing but dangerous--fun in a guilt-ridden package.<br />Author Jane Sullivan (who also writes under the name Jane Graves) writes a sexy and emotionally satisfying novel with flashes of laugh-out-loud comic genius. Jack is all fun and games on the surface, but has a serious side that finds its mate in Rachel. Sullivan does a wonderful job showing a parallel growth in sexual and emotional closeness between these two damaged characters--leading up to the inevitable disaster where each must take stock of their lives and decide whether they dare take a chance with their greatest fears.<br />This may be Sullivan's best yet--and that's saying a lot.	2003-01-31
1246293:US	49115690	R22JG0SP0VXDO3	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Funny and clever	Hapless bounty hunter Stephanie Plum has an easy job this time--bring in toy maker Sandy Klaus before Christmas. When a strange 'man' literally pops into her apartment with the message that he's here to help, she is a little mystified, but not enough to let it get in the way of doing her job. For Stephanie Plum, though, doing her job is never easy. In this case, strangeness includes a band of little people with fake elf ears, the question of whether the toy maker might just be the real Santa Claus, getting her Christmas shopping done in the four shopping days remaining, her sister's sudden stomach distress, and Stephanie's ongoing relationship issues with Joe Morelli.<br />The supernatural element (possible superhero Diesel, evil Ring, plausible Santa Claus and elves) adds to Stephanie's normally colorful life (ex-'...' Lula plays a role and another car--well, you know what happens to Stephanie's cars).<br />Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series has achieved huge success because of the books' manic, over the top, humor and the sympathetic character of Stephanie. VISIONS OF SUGAR PLUMS gives us another dose of Stephanie, her disfunctional family, and her bumbling attempts to bring hapless criminals to justice. VISIONS is barely long enough to qualify as a novel (at 149 pages in the hardback edition), giving the reader a taste of Stephanie rather than the full meal normally delivered. Still, it's an enjoyable taste.	2003-01-31
1247841:US	49115690	R2FFPGS9QKIDRZ	0670031402	963787295	The Disappearance of Sherlock Holmes	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Action-packed Holmes	When Sherlock Holmes's beautiful love interest vanishes, Holmes and Watson are quick to investigate. What they find, however, is that they have been targeted by a ruthless plot to make them appear to be the kidnappers--and murderers. In a chase that takes them from London to New York and on to Chicago, Holmes and Watson battle to find the edge that will let them pull ahead of the plotters and rescue Elsie Cubitt before she suffers the 'fate worse than death.'<br />Author Larry Millett has done his historical research and documents it in richly strewn footnotes. His accounts of city geography, turn of the (19/20th) century urban politics, and train travel all ring true. While the historical details ring true, the adventure itself has a bit of a hollow feel. It is difficult to imagine any criminal organization going to the troubles that Holmes's enemies go here. Surely it would have been easier to kill Holmes and Cubitt, if that was the goal, and then ruin their reputation later. Instead, they spend incredible amounts of money and energy for a pointless revenge.<br />Fans of the Holmes oeuvre may not recognize the Sherlock presented by Millett. Instead of cerebral, this Holmes is physical and impulsive. Watson, in contrast, was presented sympathetically with, I think, a properly balanced sense of loyalty and dogged determination. Doyle's Watson was never stupid--just an everyman like all of us who could not hope to do more than bask in Holmes's brilliance. So too, Millett's Watson is a man of action and integrity with solid if unexceptional intelligence.	2003-01-29
1249006:US	49115690	R1FOXCJYH8KJRC	0312877269	909293646	Argonaut	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Thoughtful tale of alien contact	When Lester Ordway spots a bug he's never seen before, he tries to grab it--and it stings him. But the sting isn't normal--and the bug isn't either. In the hospital where Lester is rushed, the bug releases hundreds of swarming micro-bugs that seem to suck the memories of everyone around it. Medical technologist Pilar Ramirez swears she'll find out what caused the infestation. As she and Lester explore the possibilities, though, the most unlikely seems increasingly possible. Could the strange bug be an alien probe send down to monitor Earth? If so, what possible motive could the aliens have?<br />Pilar's investigation soon lands her in the government's hands. A U.S. shuttle has been destroyed investigating something orbiting the Earth in apparent stealth mode. What began as a bug filled with nanotechnology is starting to look like an alien invasion. Only Pilar, with her unique communication with the aliens, seems equipped to do anything about what is happening--whatever it is. But no one seems able or willing to listen to Pilar's bizarre theories.<br />ARGONAUT has been labeled as a 'golden age' science fiction story and it's easy to see why. The 'alien invaders,' small band of ordinary people provided with unique insights and opportunities, and straightforward and linear plot all hark back to the earlier and simpler days of SF. Author Stanley Schmidt delivers a pleasant, if unexceptional, tale. It is sometimes hard to believe that the government would react the way Schmidt has it act, but Pilar's goals and actions (and two-dimensionality) are classic SF. ARGONAUT doesn't provide a lot of surprises, but it makes a fast and enjoyable read.	2003-01-29
1252485:US	49115690	R23QMDM7F7CR0B	1590580176	378662259	Primitive Secrets (Storm Kayama Mysteries)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting Hawaii elements--very slow start	Fresh from passing her bar exam, lawyer Storm Kayama is dealt a shock when her foster father and mentor is found dead in his office. While the other partners seem happy to keep her busy, Storm senses that something is not right. When she starts to investigate, her foster father's secretary is killed and someone tries to run storm off the highway. With the help of what appears to be a Hawaiian god, Storm survives, but she is more determined than ever to find the truth.<br />Author Deborah Turrell Atkinson writes convincingly of a Hawaii that ballances between its ancient traditions and the glitz of modern life. The HMO patient suffering from cancer and receiving both modern and traditional treatments is both important and symbolic of the broader issues that Storm, and many Hawaiians face in their daily lives.<br />PRIMITIVE SECRETS starts slow, really involving the reader only in the second half of the novel. I had a hard time identifying with Storm and her behavior and reactions. Although incompetent police work is standard in the mystery genre, it is difficult to believe that the Hawaiian police would be as negligent as portrayed by Atkinson. Fortunately, Atkinson turns up the suspense in the second half of the book, drawing the reader to a strong conclusion.	2003-01-26
1254265:US	49115690	R3OJAYDTM9VP7K	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best SF/F Book of 2002	While chasing a psychopathic mass killer, Night Watch commander Sam Vimes, and the killer, are plunged into the past of Sam's youth. Once there, they can't help change history. The killer murders the man who taught young Vimes what he knows about policing. Unless he can apprehend the killer and return to the present, Vimes risks the destruction of the city he loves. But even if he succeeds, he knows that his actions in the past will change everything--including his marriage and his prospective child.<br />Author Terry Pratchett has carved out a reputation as a writer who both makes you laugh--and think. The Discworld fantasy series is uniformly excellent, but NIGHT WATCH rates near the top of even this fine series. Vimes is a fully realized character. It is interesting to watch him relate to his younger self, and to the men who will someday be his leader and most faithful followers. Philosophical questions about fate vs. choice, and the nature of evil are disguised in witty dialogue and introspection.<br />Pratchett's Discworld world is silly and funny--with its unseen University, the seemingly omniscient Vetinari, the mostly incompetent police force that nevertheless manages to keep order in a disorderly city, and its treckle mines--but it grows on you and Pratchett moves beyond absurd to deliver some real insights.<br />All right, this review was a bit of a rave--I'll admit it. I picked up NIGHT WATCH expecting a laugh and put it down with a deeper appreciation of Pratchett as an author and of the world I live in--no reader can ask for more.	2003-01-24
1256122:US	49115690	R3A9K6D0JGWLR9	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Exciting and sexy	Seth Mackey has never thought of himself as a voyer--just a security expert who needs revenge for the brother he recently lost. But since Raine Cameron moved into one of target Victor Lazar's homes, Seth has been obsessed. When he's hired to manage security for Lazar, Lazar throws Raine at him as a bonus--a bonus that Seth knows exactly what to do with. The only problem is, he speaks better with his body than with his mouth and knows that he'll get in trouble soon. Especially when she finds out his secrets. Especially when he finds out her secret.<br />Raine Cameron is haunted by psychic dreams of her father's death--and of her uncle, Victor Lazar's role in it. She's determined to discover the truth and has taken a job with her uncle using an assumed name. What she doesn't know is that she's playing with the big boys now. What she does know is that Seth Mackey turns her on more than any man she's never seen.<br />Author Shannon McKenna writes a sexy action-thriller of a romance. Raine and Seth burn together--and also share horribly damaged upbringings--a history that will make them eternal enemies--or lovers. Still, they keep too many secrets and Seth, at least, has forgotten how to trust. When Lazar begins to open to Raine, she feels herself torn between loyalties to family and to her man.<br />BEHIND CLOSED DOORS is filled with sex, but it is also an emotionally satisfying story of two damaged characters who can only find fulfillment in one another, yet whose very damage may prevent them from taking the steps they need. With plenty of action (both sexual and adventure), DOORS is a winner.	2003-01-23
1261829:US	49115690	R28HOZTH1IRAZK	0312869045	58153037	Up In a Heaval (Xanth, No. 26)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Likable character and more bad puns	A bet between Demons Xanth, Jupiter, and Fornax sends Umlaut on a quest to deliver messages sent from our Earth to Xanth. Although Umlaut is a construct, he is endowed with excellent ethical judgement and good luck in finding friends. Demoness Metria will do anything to stop the quest because her son's soul is at risk.<br />Umlaut's quest takes him through Xanth and into contact with characters familiar to readers of the Xanth series, as well as introducing new characters. Author Piers Anthony delivers a rich assortment of the bad puns that readers of this series delight in. The Xanth series is also known for its sexual teasing (say PG-13). I thought that UP IN A HEAVAL did a good job delivering the tease without dramatically overstepping the bounds of taste. Umlaut's romance with Surprise was teetered at the edge between sweet and sensual--about right for a teenage relationship.<br />Umlaut was an interesting character because of his compassion. Although he lacked a lasting reality (being a construct of the demons for the sake of their game), Umlaut had a conscience and a drive that made him sympathetic.	2003-01-18
1263471:US	49115690	R2FYOK34IB1U7Z	0446527041	487696263	The Crush	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Compelling adventure	Wick Threadgill lost his brother, his job, and his sense of self-worth thanks to a brutal killer--a killer that Dr. Rennie Newton just let off of a sure murder conviction when she took charge of the jury and voted for acquittal. Now, killer Ricky Lozada has a crush on Rennie and intends to add her to his list of possessions. Rennie has run from romance, from men, and from life for twenty years, ever since her teenage wildness caught up with her in a huge way. But nothing in her life has prepared her for this. The police suspect her of complicity in the murder of a rival doctor, Lozada is stalking her, and Wick is lying to her, playing with her mind, and generally making her wonder about everything she has always believed.<br />Author Sandra Brown has created a powerfully evil character in Lozada--a worthy rival for Wick and Rennie. To this, she adds the painful history that neither Wick nor Rennie has ever been able to escape. It all adds up to a first class adventure and a sizzling romance.	2003-01-17
1263733:US	49115690	R1BULHKNT9WHBM	0756400864	732568675	Explorer (Foreigner 6) (Daw Books Collector, No. 1238)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Interesting and thoughtful addition to Cherryh legend	The combined human and atevi group is nearing the damaged space station Reunion, but are no closer to agreement about what to do when they get there. The pilot's guild, which runs Reunion, still has loyalties among some of the humans on the spaceship. The aliens who attacked Reunion are likely to be waiting, watching. And the guild is certainly unlikely to peacefully agree to give up their traditional powers. It doesn't help that Phoenix's late captain had [decieved] the crew and the planet dwellers about what he left behind when he fled Reunion.<br />For Bret, translator and court functionary between the atevi (planet alpha aliens) and humans, the dangers are clear, but so is the potential. He's devoted his life to bridging the huge differences between atevi and humans. To communicate with a third race would be a dream come true. Of course, before he can manage that, he's got to persuade his fellow humans and the atevi he serves to go along. Sadly, it's the humans who cause him most of his problems.<br />EXPLORER starts out slowly, with pages of discussion of past history (partly to set the stage for readers who are not familiar with the Foreigner series and partly because this seems to be author C. J. Cherryh's style and worrying about what ex-captain Ramirez did and how his actions might have been read by an unknown alien species, but definitely heats up with the arrival at Reunion. Cherryh provides a powerful balance between intriguing characters, including richly detailed atevi characters, action, and the best of speculative SF with her analysis of how communications might be established with the new group of aliens. Fans of the series will definitely need to read this book.	2003-01-17
1263982:US	49115690	R39LRJ4P9KNAFT	0312291175	484265570	Celt and Pepper: A Mystery Set at the University of Notre Dame	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Real feel for Notre Dame U. and campus politics	Visiting professor Martin Kilmartin wasn't healthy, but there is still something strange about his death. With his romantic 'dying poet' airs, Kilmartin had settled on the most attractive graduate student at Notre Dame, offending established professors. And academic rivalries run deep in that university. Still, when evidence points to murder, the detective/professor and brothers Knight are surprised. Surely disagreements over Yeats couldn't result in murder.<br />Fans of this series will enjoy author Ralph McInerny's views into University of Notre Dame's present and its past. The brothers Knight make interesting and sympathetic characters as they mingle uneasily with the staff and faculty at the University. When a wealthy ex-student wants to express his appreciation of Notre Dame more financially, Professor Roger Knight is brought into the middle of campus politics--and into closer contact with the soon-to-be victim.<br />McInerny's writing, his ability to dip into Notre Dame history and philosophy, and his wonderful descriptions of the petty politics that matters so much in any University form the strongest features of CELT AND PEPPER. Improved from earlier books in the series, the two female characters have some added dimension here. Few readers will be challenged by the identity of the killer, but that isn't really the point. Simply put, the book is a pleasant and fast read.	2003-01-17
1271298:US	49115690	R3Q8K4UJMS70DN	1575667150	880697741	Fashion Victim: A Dallas O'Connor Mystery (Dallas O'Connor Mysteries)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fun but with emotional depth--very enjoyable	For stylist Dallas O'Connor, it's a perfect job--spending lots of money, dressing beautiful women, and a week on a Caribbean island with a way-handsome chef. Except, when she arrives, Mama Garcia accuses her of wearing the face of death. When Dallas finds a body on the beach, no one seems to care--or even to believe her when they finally follow her to the spot and find--nothing. There's something going on other than a music video shoot, but Dallas doesn't have a clue what it is--and she knows she'd better find out quickly if she wants to stay alive herself.<br />Author Chloe Green delivers a spicy blend of mystery, fashion, and island cooking. Green's light touch works perfectly in this enjoyable romp. Dallas is an entertaining character, with a family and personal history that makes her yearn for what she cannot have. Love interest Oscar is also richly detailed with appropriate angst--and not a little danger.<br />Fans of this series (each novel can be read independently) will definitely want to read this one. Chloe Green has matured as a writer and, in FASHION VICTIM, has hit her stride.	2003-01-11
1272029:US	49115690	RDSZ1WCBU33F0	0312859228	503117949	Atlantis Endgame: A New Time Traders Adventure	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Welcome addition to great old series	When archeologists discover a modern earing burried beneath tons of lava, they see an anomoly. Scientists at the time project see something different. A possible attempt by aliens to redirect human history, destroying the modern world. A small team of project agents are sent back to the ancient Greece of Minoan civilization--and Atlantis itself--to ensure that humanity's destiny is not subverted.<br />Before the ancient civilization of Kalliste was destroyed in a huge volcanic explosion, it had achieved technological levels not seen again until modern times. Clearly the world would have been transformed had it survived--but would the transformation have been for the better? Authors Andre Norton and Sherwood Smith add a degree of ethical complexity to a science fiction adventure. The project agents think that they are doing the right thing, but so do the two separate groups of aliens that they face.<br />The Time Traders series formed a part of many baby boomers introduction to science fiction and still holds power today. Norton and Smith's decision to add ethical complexity to the adventure gives strength to ATLANTIS ENDGAME. Young adult readers will find Norton and Smith's style to be approachable while more mature readers will find a deceptive intellectual subtlty. Emotional depths, however, are only hinted at.	2003-01-10
1273086:US	49115690	R1LYSXP3GFYPRS	0727858246	214115100	Double Jeopardy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Moral gray areas in English police--very good indeed	Scout Pethor and Matthew Gain have been cleared of the murder of beautiful black co-ed Angela Sabat--and the British police are intent to discover why, and to find a scapegoat. Because they believe Pethor and Gain are guilty as sin, and that only a police coverup could have brought about their acquittal. Vic Othen, Kerry Lake's sometimes lover, looks to be an appropriate fall guy. He did, after all, discover the body acting on a tip. Couldn't he have been called in to hide the evidence? Who else but the killers would have known where to send him?<br /><br />Kerry lives in a world where everyone seems to know everyone else's secrets. Her love affair with Vic, even her meeting with Pethor's brother become common knowledge among Pethor's criminal gang, his jailed competitor, her police chief, and even the victim's mother--a journalist intent on discovering the truth and just maybe creating a bit of justice. The British courts deny that justice is possible. Gain and Pethor can't be tried again under the rules of double jeopardy. But that doesn't mean that their lives need be pleasant. Unfortunately, they seem just smart enough to be able to stay ahead of justice, just as they've stayed ahead of the law.<br /><br />Author Bill James writes powerfully about the moral ambiguities and small victories of the modern police. In this short but complex novel, everyone is working an angle, everyone has more than one hidden agenda, and nothing is what it seems. Even when Kerry assures herself that she wouldn't continue to support Vic if she knew him corrupt, there is always a question mark at the end of her question. When the law holds a killer innocent, what moral rules can or should apply?<br /><br />As with James's Harpur and Iles novels, DOUBLE JEOPARDY deals with shades of gray. Killing a black woman is worse than beating one up. Giving a free ride to a criminal in prison might be better than a free ride to a killer who is free. And taking a bribe might not be so bad if the cop doing the taking doesn't really deliver what she promised. DOUBLE JEOPARDY left me feeling disturbed, dirty, and entertained.the cop doing the taking doesn't really deliver what she promised. DOUBLE JEOPARDY left me feeling disturbed, dirty, and entertained.	2003-01-10
1275057:US	49115690	R38R99649DGD92	0743452593	751849605	Oyster Blues: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Humor mostly works. Funny but uneven.	Harry Harper has blown his assignment as a private eye, lost his job as an English professor, and gotten drunk enough that he shot a chicken through the wall and thought he'd murdered someone. Jane Ellen Ashley thought she'd murdered someone too--the powerful (and evil) state senator's son. Now both are on the run. For both, the problems pile up. Harper takes up with a pair of gangsters while Ashley becomes the love interest of a Cuban/Bahamian gangster accountant who will stop at nothing to have her--and believes that Ashley is the only way for him to prove his manhood to his Cuban co-workers. Add a farmer hitman and a man with a plastic tube for his throat and you have the makings of a very funny story.<br />According to the back cover copy, author Michael McClelland is an English professor, which explains both part of the appeal and part of the problem with this first novel. McClelland works hard at his humor and it shows--sometimes working brilliantly and sometimes seeming forced and awkward. His author intrusions too are hit and miss. For example, some may find the digression into the fate of the dead chicken knee-splittingly funny. I found it merely a distraction from the story. Perhaps the biggest problem was that our introduction to Harry showed a man nothing like the Harry we came to know through the novel. This wasn't character growth, it was simply a different Harry. If McClelland wanted to do this, he should have justified or explained it.<br />Bottom line, there's a lot to like and some to dislike about this book. The dumb but well-meaning giant is a cliche (but maybe that's what McClelland is trying to show--it's tough to know with English professors). I hope McClelland does more research and gets an editor for his next book (weapon calibers rarely change from 38s to 45s and revolvers really don't have safeties), but I still found myself drawn into OYSTER RULES, laughing at McClelland's jokes, and appreciating the clever scheme our heros must confront. I'm going to keep my eyes open for his next novel.t. I'm going to keep my eyes open for his next novel.	2003-01-08
1280229:US	49115690	R1VOB1C4RQTNY7	0399149244	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Funny and well written adventure	he Extravaganza of the Seas is a Florida gambling boat that each night sails to three miles beyond the coast so its passengers can throw their money down a hole (the boat is crooked). On this night, however, Tropical Storm Hector threatens, and the cruise becomes anything but routine. The boat has a very important rendezvous planned, and the not-very-nice guys in charge aren't about to let anything as trivial as gale-force winds postpone their big drug deal.<br />Those not very nice guys didn't count on a feisty cocktail waitress, a stoned rock band, two elderly men, and a host of other strange characters blundering onto the scene and putting a kink in their plans.<br />Dave Barry manages to combine graphic violence with side-splitting hilarity in this thoroughly entertaining romp. He uses a time-honored formula: Introduce a series of characters during the first half of the book, get the reader to really care about them, then foist them all together and see what happens. In this case, it is non-stop action, one cliff-hanger after another, reversal after reversal--in short, a book you can't put down.	2003-01-05
1280433:US	49115690	R2S7R3SDOJV0ZH	0786927860	751567867	Insurrection (Forgotten Realms: R.A. Salvatore's War of the Spider Queen, Book 2)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Constant action--Drow in a city of destruction	A small band of dark elves have made their way from the battered city of Menzoberranzan to Ched Nasad--their mission, to determine whether the spider goddess Lolth has abandoned all fo the Drow, or only Menzoberranzan. Of course, being Drow, all of them have their own agendas, and don't especially mind betraying their comrads if doing so can help them in the eternal games that the dark elves play for status and magical items.<br />Once in Ched Nasad, things go badly. Sensing Drow weakness, the lesser species are seething, looking for a spark to launch into revolt. And the continuing bickering between the Drow is certain to provide that spark--especially as one dark elf house has imported thousands of gray dwarves into the city to support its bid for primacy. The original mission becomes secondary as the men become separated from the women and each group is forced to struggle for survival, alone in a city where they have nothing but enemies.<br />INSURRECTION is the second in a series of novels dealing with the impact of Lolth's disappearing. Like DISSOLUTION and many other Wizzards of the Coast novels, INSURRECTION feels like a role playing game with constant fighting, squabbling for magical items, and rapidly escallating dangers. Author Thomas M. Reid writes smoothly and keeps the pages turning. There isn't a lot of character development or a lot of learning going on among these adventurers, but those looking for pure action will find INSURRECTION a winner.<br />INSURRECTION may be read independently of DISSOLUTION but reading this series in order will enhance the reader's enjoyment.	2003-01-05
1280615:US	49115690	R2M49L6V9PWLFU	0312290462	426915287	The Fugitive King: A Professor Simon Shaw Mystery	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fun and clever mystery	Simon Shaw has achieved some notoriety as a \\"forensic historian\\"; that is, a history professor who has a knack for solving really, really cold murder cases by examining them from a historian's perspective. Now a convicted murderer who has read about Simon escapes from prison and takes Simon hostage. He demands that Simon investigate the decades-old murder for which he is serving a life sentence. He did confess, the convict says, but the confession was beaten out of him.<br />After this exciting opening, Simon manages to get the guy to give himself up. Nothing much happens for the next 70 pages or so as Simon half-heartedly looks into the matter while dealing with his shaky relationship with his non-committal girlfriend, Julia, and his university students desperate for passing grades. But after reading some old newspapers and talking to a couple of people, he decides something about the 1958 murder is out of whack. And since it took place near his hometown of Boone, North Carolina, and since he needs to get away for a while, the old murder is a perfect excuse to pay a visit to his relatives.<br />The plot doesn't really get rolling until about halfway through the book, but it didn't seem to matter too much. The characters are engaging and amusing, Simon is likable and very human, and the novel has a sharp sense of place that makes me homesick for my mother's cooking. The family relationships have a ring of truth to them that makes this book a fun read, and the solution to the mystery was satisfying and clever without being outlandish.	2003-01-05
1280696:US	49115690	R2E25GQMQT53X8	031228960X	848718221	Westerfield's Chain	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Dark and disturbing tale of Chicago	Private detective Nick Acropolis specializes in clearing cops under investigation. As an ex-cop who fell foul of the investigating board himself, Nick doesn't have much love for the process--but he isn't blind enough to believe his clients aren't mostly guilty. As he investigates a strange story of a traffic accident and shooting involving a cop, Nick stumbles onto something larger. A drug store in the middle of a burned out neighborhood seems mostly deserted, but the records show that it does millions in business--supported by the government. Its owner has suddenly vanished, one of the workers is a murder victim, and the other employee is strangely willing to clear Nick's client's name.<br />Almost against his will, Nick begins to investigate. The more he looks, the more he finds about the corruption of Chicago and Illinois state governments, welfare rackets, and bad police. Still, he can't seem to put the story into context. Something just isn't adding up and it might be him being set up to be the fall guy.<br />Author Jack Clark writes with a clear and straightforward style and a well balanced mix of character development and plot to compell the reader forward. With the damage his background has done to him, Nick is compelling and sympathetic, even when he compromises on his own ethics. Clark's view of Chicago, still suffering from the damage done by the race riots of the 1960s and 1970s, rings true. The city becomes something of a character in the story--one with plenty of flaws and with its redeaming charm.	2003-01-05
1280718:US	49115690	R1UHAS1VIGV2KB	0786927860	751567867	Insurrection (Forgotten Realms: R.A. Salvatore's War of the Spider Queen, Book 2)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Constant action--Drow in a city of destruction	A small band of dark elves have made their way from the battered city of Menzoberranzan to Ched Nasad--their mission, to determine whether the spider goddess Lolth has abandoned all fo the Drow, or only Menzoberranzan. Of course, being Drow, all of them have their own agendas, and don't especially mind betraying their comrads if doing so can help them in the eternal games that the dark elves play for status and magical items. <br />Once in Ched Nasad, things go badly. Sensing Drow weakness, the lesser species are seething, looking for a spark to launch into revolt. And the continuing bickering between the Drow is certain to provide that spark--especially as one dark elf house has imported thousands of gray dwarves into the city to support its bid for primacy. The original mission becomes secondary as the men become separated from the woman and each group is forced to struggle for survival, alone in a city where they have nothing but enemies. <br />INSURRECTION is the second in a series of novels dealing with the impact of Lolth's disappearing. Like DISSOLUTION and many other Wizzards of the Coast novels, INSURRECTION feels like a role playing game with constant fighting, squabbling for magical items, and rapidly escallating dangers. Author Thomas M. Reid writes smoothly and keeps the pages turning. There isn't a lot of character development or a lot of learning going on among these adventurers, but those looking for pure action will find INSURRECTION a winner. <br />INSURRECTION may be read independently of DISSOLUTION but reading this series in order will enhance the reader's enjoyment.	2003-01-05
1283531:US	49115690	R1ZACKDHONE55S	0312291434	67286578	A Detective in Love: A Mystery	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Lustful thoughts distract from mystery	When beautiful tennis star Barbara (Bubbles) Xingara is found murdered, the rural police force calls in Detective Superintendent Harriet Martens for help. Harriet has earned a reputation as the 'hard detective,' but she falls fast for a younger Detective Inspector Brent. An affair would definitely complicate Harriet's marriage, not to mention both of their police careers, but she can hardly keep her hands to herself from the moment she first sees him. Fortunately, or unfortunately, all of the early leads generate nothing but trouble, giving Harriet and Brent time together to fuel the attraction.<br />After the strong THE HARD DETECTIVE, A DETECTIVE IN LOVE is something of a disappointment. Harriet's instant love is not exactly unbelievable, but it seems motivated by author H. R. F. Keating's desire to show how lust and love can strike instantly than by something coming from the characters themselves. Harriet's long lustful thoughts don't deliver enough detail to be titillating, but do distract from the mystery. Possibly this is just as well as the mystery seems disjointed rather than progressing in a story arc.<br />I've read enough Keating to look forward to his next novel, but this one is best for real fans.	2003-01-03
1284830:US	49115690	RE7GC6ATI1VBE	0765302411	578427202	Much Ado About Murder (Shakespeare & Smythe Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Adventures of Shakespear--detective	Symington (Tuck) Smythe and his friend Will Shakespear find that the theater business can be chancy. London's council has banned theater production and their company's tour of the countryside was largely a bust. Now, back in London, they rehearse, drink too much beer, and wait for something positive to happen. In the meantime, Tuck makes money using his blacksmith skills rather than his (dubious) theatrical ones and Shakespear writes sonets for the amusement of England's nobility (and for his own profit). In these hungry times, the apprentices of London frequently go wild, stealing, breaking heads, and generally causing problems.<br />A rich merchant from Genoa looks to be a godsend to the theater, but murder puts a definite damper on that plan. When a friend of Tuck and Shakespear is accused, the two must, once again, turn detective to uncover the true killer and free their friend.<br />Author Simon Hawke tells a charming tale. Fans of Shakespear will get a chuckle out of the way Hawke puts well known lines from the bard into the mouths of his characters--for Shakespear to adapt later in his famous plays. I found the early going to be interesting but slow--Hawke spends the first half of the book setting up the mystery, then swings into action in the second half of the book.<br />Hawke's London feels authentic, with dirt, wild apprentices, disease, and a sense of hope that the future may be brighter. Tuck is an interesting and sympathetic character--his love for the theater matched only by his lack of talent. MUCH ADO ABOUT MURDER is certain to generate some smiles.	2003-01-02
1287507:US	49115690	R3P7XWJOADT61K	0312869886	670557541	The Apocalypse Door	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting but illogical	Knight Templar Peter Crossman's task should be easy. Infiltrate a New Jersey warehouse, discover if missing U.N. peacekeepers are being held there, and report back to the Temple. Instead of peacekeepers, though, Crossman finds mushrooms that recoil from the cross, a beautiful assassin/nun, and hints that the end of time is at hand.<br />Author James D. Macdonald keeps the action moving, as Crossman and his sidekicks try to stay ahead of the CIA, the Teutonic Knights, and an alien race from another dimension. In a secondary story, Crossman's earlier, pre-priest, history is recalled. Macdonald's writing is slick and keeps the pages turning. I am concerned, however, about logic problems. Crossman's opponents are, presumably, not stupid. Yet they fail to take advantage of numerous opportunities to simply kill him and have him out of the way. Then there's the matter of the brass statue. Why did it call itself to Crossman's attention?<br />A story that postulates the continued secret existance of the long-banned Knights Templar, of the Teutonic Knights, and of assassin nuns can't be all bad and THE APOCALYPSE DOOR isn't. The character of Peter Crossman is nicely drawn and his faith feels genuine. I found his dilemma while taking an assassin/nun's confession to be especially moving.	2002-12-31
1287695:US	49115690	RJKRI5BLYEVJS	0312290977	36294990	The Riddle of the Deplorable Dandy: A Novel of Georgian England	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Historical anachronisms drag reader from exciting romance	When her brother is taken captive by the French, Elspeth Clayton knows she must rescue him--even if she must risk being 'ruined' to society and take up with Gervaise Valerian, a dandy who may even be involved in treason against the Hanover King of England. Pursued by British agents, French soldiers, and an assortment of cut-throats and assassins, Elspeth and Valerian set off across France on a rescue mission--for Elspeth's brother and for Valerian's 'aunt.'<br />Author Patricia Veryan keeps the action moving, with adventure and swordfighting on almost every page. She also does a fine job developing the growing awareness and attraction between the two characters allowing Elspeth's initial unfavorable reaction to gradually transform itself as Valerian reveals his true qualities.<br />Fans of historical fiction are likely to be jarred, however, by the numerous anachronisms that Veryan introduces into her story. The frequent references to the 'Guillotine' make no sense in a novel set in 1749, decades before Dr. Guillotine earned his fame at the start of the French Revolution. Elspeth's maid's reference to 'germs' seems prescient given that Louis Pasteur was in his 20s at the time and had not yet made his famous discoveries--prescient or simply a mistake. The finding of coffee, then a luxury beverage, in the cheapest taverns and Valerian's references to himself as a 'Milquetoast' after a figure of the early 20th century also work to pull the reader out of the history. Indeed, after finding these, I started looking for more--and found that I was paying more attention to historical errors than to the plot.<br />Despite its research defects, THE RIDDLE OF THE DEPLORABLE DANDY is an enjoyable adventure with engaging characters and romance.	2002-12-31
1289606:US	49115690	R10QMCPAZC5VRJ	0375505229	754210276	Matchstick Men: A Novel of Petty Crimes	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Well written but obvious	When obsessive compulsive con-man Roy learns that he has a daughter from a long abandoned marriage, it changes his life. Despite objections from his partner, Frankie, Roy insists on including his daughter on some of their scams, teaching her the tricks of the game. Frankie resists, reminding Roy that this violates Roy's rules, but Roy is transformed. Maybe he'll even turn over a new leaf, get a real job, and join life as a mark rather than as a grifter.<br />Author Eric Garcia does a fine job describing the cons and making Roy sympathetic even as he systematically steals thousands of dollars from people who can ill-afford to lose their money. Roy's occasional attacks of ethics, and his growing affection for his daughter, as well as his emotional problems with obsessive compulsion disorder give him a degree of complexity.<br />The key characteristic of a good con is that the mark doesn't see it coming. Readers may fault MATCHSTICK MEN in this. The plot may twist and turn, but the destination is telegraphed early. Few fans of the genre are likely to be surprised by the ending of this novel.	2002-12-29
1290934:US	49115690	R2XL240JYKBZJY	0765305615	83390695	Legacies (Corean Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent beginning to new fantasy series	A herder needs a certain amount of the 'talent,' the psychic ability that puts him apart from other men. Young herder Alucius has more talent than most--and he fully expects to put it to use on his family's ranch. When war breaks out, he is drafted into the local militia. His talent, together with his grandfather's training, serves him well there, but the Matrites are too numerous and too strong for even his psychic powers. Alucius finds himself enslaved into the very army he had attempted to defeat.<br />Author L. E. Modesitt Jr. creates a compelling future world--devastated by ancient magic battles and still struggling to recover. Each of the nations that are now clawing themselves into existence believe that they have learned the reason for the ancient destruction and that their path is the only way to prevent its recurrence. Unfortunately, each solution stands in opposition to one another. Modesitt delivers a highly sympathetic character in Alucius, but also lets the reader sympathise with other nations' goals and fears.<br />Modesitt delivers plenty of action, with an emphasis on the personal rather than large scale troop movements. Alucius's battles with himself, his personal discoveries and his gradual coming of age, form the basis for this compelling novel.<br />Fans of Modesitt's fine Recluse series will add LEGACIES to their must-read list.	2002-12-28
1291248:US	49115690	R34AID05CL2LSF	0743435761	851894334	Advance and Retreat	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best book in series	The war between the provinces is going badly for the north, with the breakaway provinces devastated by years of war and by the greater industrial power of the south. Northern commander Bell conceives of a daring ploy--with southern general Hesmucet's soldiers rampaging through the north, Bell decides to counter-attack. To invade Tennessee--uh, Franklin--and take the war to the South. With the assistance of capable unicorn commander Ned of the Forest, Bell has a chance and he's certainly always been a general willing to take the battle to the enemy.<br />Author Harry Turtledove delivers alternate history using a variety of viewpoint characters including common soldiers, junior officers, and senior generals to deliver the shades of gray that every war involves. In ADVANCE AND RETREAT, even more than in the earlier novels in this series (SENTRY PEAK and MARCHING THROUGH PEACHTREE), this formula works. The reader is dragged into the battle, into the emotional entanglement between Captain Gremio and Sergeant Thisbe, the growth of blond Corporal Rollant, and even the laudanum-soaked Lieutenant General Bell.<br />The western front of the U.S. civil war can certainly claim to be the deciding theater, but it lacks the romance of Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson and is, therefore, less studied than the Virginia battlefields. Turtledove's fantasy retelling (reversing compass directions, making the disenfranchised group blond serfs rather than black slaves, with unicorns rather than cavalry and nobility rather than democratically elected leaders and renaming cities and battlefields (Nashville becomes Ramblertown--cute) brings this critical piece of history into a new light--and a light that allows the reader to strip away the emotional entanglements that still surround the U.S. Civil War and develop new emotional weight based on the power of Turtledove's writing.<br />This is the best Turtledove I've read in a long time.	2002-12-28
1301278:US	49115690	R2SICG41UZBIDM	0312308159	240124061	The Inquisitor: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Compelling examination of self-delusion	Bernard Peyre enjoys his job as an inquisitor in 14th century France, and believes that he serves a critical role in rooting out heretics and preserving the church. When he gets a new boss, he wonders whether the man might be too strict, but he respects Father Augustin's faith and willingness to re-open old cases--to go after heretics that might have somehow escaped his predecessor. Still, Bernard is concerned that Augustin seems fascinated by a small group of women, living together without the benefit of a priest's oversight. Women, Bernard knows, are surely a cause of a man's downfall.<br />When Augustin is found, murdered, while returning from a visit to these women, Bernard is concerned that a heretic might have struck. He visits the women and finds himself in love with one of them. As a monk, Bernard's vows prohibit sexual love, but he is convinced that this love is somehow sacred despite his friend and confessor's strong warnings. When Bernard's new boss arrives with concerns over demon summoning--something that Bernard knows has not happened in his region, things begin to fall out of control.<br />Author Catherine Jinks gives life and insight into religious life in medieval France. To the end, Bernard believes in the inquisition, despite what it does to himself and those he loves. Bernard is a wonderful character--quick to justify his actions even when they are truly out of line, often unable to separate lust from divine rapture, and proud of his intelligence at the same time as he is aware of (at least some of) his shortcomings. THE INQUISITOR is not a who-dunnit type of mystery, but it is a fascinating exploration of man's capability for self-delusion and of good intentions leading to terrible results.	2002-12-17
1301546:US	49115690	R3ATD3ZNZ2I4K5	0756400856	988896530	Exile's Honor (Valdemar)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Strong mix of adventure and character growth	Captain Alberich of the Karse guard might not be a hero, but a vision did allow him to save a village from bandits. And that vision resulted in his being denounced and sentenced to burning. Only the timely rescue by his horse that was more than a normal horse allowed him to live--in exile in Valdemar. Karse and Valdemar are historical enemies and Alberich meets with suspicion despite his being chosen by a horse/companion. Still, he manages to make a place for himself as a weapons instructor, bodyguard, and spy. A place, but not a home. Alberich clings to his beliefs, his honor, and his certainty that his country remains Karse, despite what the priests who rule that country may decree.<br />When Karse hires a mercenary army to invade Valdemar, Alberich decides that his loyalty to Valdemar is the priority, especially since few if any Karse will be enrolled in that army. The mercenary army of Tedrels were an entire nation, deprived of their homes by a losing war, and wandering the world until they had a chance to claim a new country. They see Valdemar as their nation's last hope--and Alberich and the Valdemar army know that there is no possibility of compromise. They must secure a victory--or lose everything.<br />Author Mercedes Lackey delivers an emotionally satisfying and exciting story. As a stranger in Valdemar, Alberich can view it with the wonder and suspicion that brings this strange nation of magic to life for the reader. Despite a few loose ends and plot lines that didn't lead anywhere (in this novel, at least although they may be followed up in other Valdemar stories), Lackey's strong writing compells the reader forward, grabbing the reader early and holding our attention until we put the book down, finished.	2002-12-17
1307889:US	49115690	R71GAU27TEOTN	0312290276	548211395	The Smoke: A Creeping Narrative	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fascinating study of post-WWII London, spies &amp; criminals	Jethro does pretty well for himself in post-WWII London. Between his part-time job working as a stagehand, and his real career as a burgular and jewell thief, Jethro has comfortable wealth, good friends, and plenty of women. A big heist at a foreign embassy looks like it'll set him up for life--with plenty of diamonds, a gold Rolex, and a couple of books that look like they might be worth something. But the books are more than collector's items and the British secret service becomes involved--with a new mission for Jethro. British intelligence is only one of Jethro's problems, though. Leaders in the London mob have no problem with Jethro's acts, but they intend to be cut in for their share. Things quickly become complicated.<br />Author Tony Broadbent does a wonderful job depicting London in an era where victory has led to exhaustion rather than a sense of victory. Rich in the slang of London and London's underworld, THE SMOKE (thief cant for London itself) is completely convincing. Jethro's criminal behavior is quirky but sympathetic--he tells himself that he only robs from those who can afford it. In THE SMOKE, they're mostly Russian spies anyway, so no problems.<br />I felt that the second heist was a little undermotivated and less than brilliant and one critical character seemed just a little too conveniently available, but the strong opening chapters and the exciting conclusion make up for a multitude of sins. I couldn't put THE SMOKE down and now find myself looking forward to the next novel by this first-time author.	2002-12-12
1307943:US	49115690	RIC9GYNYB2NLG	1585672610	406818967	A Bed of Earth (Secret Books of Venus, Book 3)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Almost poetic view of fantasy Venice	In a version of renassaince Venice not too far different from that in our own history, doomed love works its magic. Two families have feuded for centuries over a stretch of land in a graveyard. Generations later, the feud continues, working its destructive force on the children of the noble families. Meralda, a dela Scorpio, falls for a handsome painter but is betrayed by her servant and by the heir to the Barbarons. Beatrixa, daughter of the Barbaron, falls for a ghost spirit who claims to be a dela Scorpio. And Bartolome, the gravedigger, finds his true love too late.<br />Author Tanith Lee creates a fascinating world where magic treads just lightly enough to make history into something colorful and wonderful. Her richly drawn characters, especially Silvio and Beatrixa, with their doomed love, cannot help create reader sympathy and fascination. Lee's descriptions of her mythical Venice (Venus) ring true both for the Venice of our own history and for that of myth.<br />Readers looking for action and adventure will not find much of that here. Instead, A BED OF EARTH is a strange and doomed romance, a poem of people and souls, and a bit of philosophy.	2002-12-12
1308706:US	49115690	RVI5H95CMN8VL	0765300192	224734752	Bone of Contention: A Magdalene la Batarde Mystery	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very fine historical mystery--great characters	When King Steven calls a council, many people hasten to attend--those who hope to win a lawsuit, those who seek royal favor, and even whoremistresses like Magdalene la Batarde. Magdalene owes her life to William of Ypres and knows that she can serve him by providing a place of refuge and a secure meeting area. She doesn't expect to become involved in murder, but when an attempt at a forced wedding ends with the prospective groom stabbed in the back and one of William's men a suspect, Magdalene decides to investigate.<br />Magdalene's lover, Bell, is also in Oxford, serving his master's orders at the great council. Bell is jealous of Magdalene's loyalty to William and concerned for her safety as she plunges deeper into the investigation, but overall a good sport. He pitches in, serves escort duty, and interviews men at arms, bartenders, and others that Magdalene could not approach.<br />In BONE OF CONTENTION, author Roberta Gellis delivers a powerful and fascinating view of an important time in English history. Her historical details are excellent, providing insights to the historically inclined without being obtrusive to those following the mystery. Even more so than in A PERSONAL DEVIL, Gellis delves into her characters. Both Magdalene and Bell are successfully detailed, with understandable conflict that cannot be resolved by a simple discussion. The mystery is compelling with a rich assortment of suspects and an abundance of clues.	2002-12-11
1312461:US	49115690	RCYXAU0OPGXZG	0312877609	48557269	Preternatural 3 (Preternatural (Tor Books))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Funny story within-a-story. Saving the someone's world	Science Fiction writer Karen Rohmer Guerreri has been through a lot, but now she's got to write herself out of the death of an entire planet. Of the entire species of TQ (third kind alien), only her sometimes-lover Govannon remains--and he only sort of. He's counting on her to write her way to a solution for him and all of his kind. Naturally Karen doesn't have a clue what to write, but the story of Anna, the woman who just might be Joseph Goebbels' illegitimate daughter, keeps coming into her mind. So, without computer, paper, or pen, Karen writes the story. Naturally there are plenty of moments for her to back off and try to sort out where she is in her own life and to sort out the memories that belong to other people and species entirely but that seem to lodge in her mind without much of an invitation.<br />Neo-nazis have decided that Goebbels was truly the spiritual head of the Third Reich, and that his daughter is the best person to pick up the pieces and create a new German nation. That she's married to a Jew doesn't matter--he can quietly fade into the background. That she just might know the secret to the fabled amber room--looted by the Nazis from Russia and then lost but possibly not destroyed--means that they can actually find the financing for their dream. What Anna wants doesn't matter to them and she is drawn into their plot.<br />PRETERNATURAL3 is a funny and witty book. Readers who are familiar with the world or writing and the endangered midlist author will share in-group laughs with author Margaret Wander Bonanno and her alter ego Karen. Anna's adventure, and the over-adventure of the hoped for restoral of Govannon's race are compelling enough to keep the reader entertained, but the real justification for this novel is Bonanno's quirky view of the world and her insights into human nature, writing, and time. PRETERNATURAL3 will definitely repay the reader's time in smiles and outright laughs. But just how did she get the novel published through your standard New York editor?ur standard New York editor?	2002-12-08
1314381:US	49115690	R3FVAID1ICTYS8	0892967714	206344772	A Body in the Bathhouse	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Superior detail--funny and rich	It's been a tough time for Roman informant Falco. First he and his father discover a decomposing body buried under the tiles of his bathhouse. Second, his chief rival begins stalking his sister. Third, Emperor Vespasian wants him to go to Britain to sort out a building project gone bad. Finally, Falco's been asked to find work for his wife's overly energetic but highly impractical brothers. When the chief murder suspects turn up missing, Falco decides to go where the biggest building project is located--Britain--even though he hates that dreary island.<br />Britain is every bit as dreary as Falco remembers from his days in the military, and it's still a sleepy province far from the civilization of Rome. But Vespasian wants to build a fancy palace for one of the few local kings who supported Rome during a recent rebellion--and he doesn't want to have to pay too much. Falco finds the building crews at war with one another, and nasty hints that the corruption goes even deeper than is usual. Unfortunately, those who benefit from the graft want to keep things just the way they are. It's up to Falco to sort out the problems without creating a diplomatic crisis for his Emperor. Fortunately, Falco's brothers-in-law turn out to be hard-working, if impractical, and his wife, Helena remains a pillar of strength. Which is lucky when the body count really starts to mount.<br />Author Lindsey Davis delivers an exciting and amusing tale of mystery and history. Falco is a richly detailed character with a lot going on in his life and a lot of constraints that keep him from just throwing out all the scoundrels and starting over. Davis weaves together the multiple mysteries in the novel into a complete whole, gives an intriguing glimpse into what Rome and its provinces might have been like when Rome really did rule the world, and does it with a light tough that keeps the pages turning.<br />A BODY IN THE BATHHOUSE is a fine and rewarding mystery.	2002-12-06
1316866:US	49115690	RTRCZQGY2UFQ	0786928042	926952674	The Thousand Orcs (Forgotten Realms:  The Hunter's Blades Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Exciting adventure but lacks character development	Dwarf King Bruenor is on his way back to Mithral Hall for his ceremonial crowning when he gets word of an orc raid. Together with a small group of fellow dwarves, with his drow elf friend Drizzt Do'Urden, and with a pair of humans, Bruenor heads to the battle. He has been reluctant to seize his crown at any rate from fear that his advisors will keep him from adventure, and this may be his last chance. Bruenor doesn't count on an alliance between the orcs and the frost giants of the north. Drow renegades have forged this unlikely alliance in hopes of creating chaos--chaos that they can exploit for their own advantage. And the death of King Bruenor sounds like the most profitable kind of chaos possible.<br />Author R. A. Salvatore continues his story of Drizzt and his friends as they adventure across a violent world of magic and conflict. Drizzt is in love with a human woman, but wonders whether he dares bring a half-drow into the world, and whether he would be doing a kindness to marry a woman who will be old while he is still a young warrior. Meanwhile, dwarf relations between Mithral Hall and Mirabar have reached a critical point--leading to a near civil war in the mixed human/dwarf town of Mirabar (this conflict is barely integrated into the main plot line--presumably it will become more significant in later volumes in the series).<br />Early on in the novel, it appeared that orc King Obould would break out of the traditional orc stupidity mode and actually develop intelligent plans to do serious damage to the orcs and humans that oppose him. Quickly, however, he reverts, failing to take advantage of his giant allies, falling into obvious traps, and generally behaving like the traditional stupid orc. While he can't be faulted for this, it was a bit of a disappointment to me, at least. It is difficult to see any number of orcs as a real threat to an organized force of dwarves, especially one backed by the formidable blades of Drizzt. The enemy drow never really unveil themselves and never lend much intelligence to their allies' plans.<br />Like many Wizards of the Coast novels, THE THOUSAND ORCS has something of the feel of a role-playing adventure--a small party of adventurers is thrust into an escalating adventure where more and more enemies are gradually introduced. Although Drizzt is a fan favorite, there isn't a lot of character development in this novel, at least. Salvatore's fine writing makes this one worth reading--but if you happen to miss it, you'll be able to pick up the characters without any problem.nveil themselves and never lend much intelligence to their allies' plans. <br />Like many Wizards of the Coast novels, THE THOUSAND ORCS has something of the feel of a role-playing adventure--a small party of adventurers is thrust into an escalating adventure where more and more enemies are gradually introduced. Although Drizzt is a fan favorite, there isn't a lot of character development in this novel, at least. Salvatore's fine writing makes this one worth reading--but if you happen to miss it, you'll be able to pick up the characters without any problem.	2002-12-05
1322128:US	49115690	RSFEM9YM23V6S	0373226802	868541591	The Night In Question	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Emotionally rich story	Julia Tennant spent two years in jail, convicted of killing her husband and three other men with a bomb. Now she's free, on a legal technicality. But FBI agent Max Ross will do whatever it takes to keep Julia from seizing her daughter and becoming a fugitive. Except, when he's with Julia, he starts to wonder whether he put the right person in jail. Could he have made a mistake--been led into a false conviction?<br />Author Harper Allen does a fine job delivering the emotional message of her story. Julia has emerged from prison a different woman from the weak person who went in. She's stronger, tougher, but still capable of love--and blessed with a psychic bond to her daughter despite the distance and the years that separate them. Max has never forgiven himself for the death of his wife and unborn son--a son he denies ever existed. Julia's mother/child bond tears at him at the same time as he sees it for something he can never have. Allen's dream sequences add texture to the story.<br />Severe research problems weaken the intrigue plot. If Julia had been freed due to a flawed search warrent, the FBI would be doing everything it could to prepare for a new trial--second trials for the same crime are barred only in cases of an innocent verdict, not the case here. The idea that Julia's sister-in-law would be admitted into the witness protection program to protect her from Julia (who is in prison) is unrealistic. Witness protection is expensive and wouldn't be offered in cases like this.<br />Romance readers who don't quibble over legal matters and focus on the emotional details will find THE NIGHT IN QUESTION to be a rewarding read.	2002-12-01
1322593:US	49115690	R28RSJK94RUPZR	0060004606	37304861	Dark End of the Street (Nick Travers)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Rewarding adventure--blues, the south, & murder	Music historian Nick Travers tracks down legendary blues musicians for a living so he isn't too surprised when his friend Loretta asks him to find her brother--except that her brother has been rumored to be dead for years. Still, Nick can't turn down a request from Loretta and heads from New Orleans to Memphis where Clyde James had last been seen. What he finds in Memphis, though, is a woman being held captive, recent murder, and a political campaign with Dixie Mafia money coming out the seams. Nick will have to call on more than music detection skills to survive this mess--let alone help things come out right.<br />Author Ace Atkins writes convincingly of an American south where the old and new rest uneasily with one another, where race relations are personal, and where dreams of the confederacy still motivate men to arm and train. Atkin's characterization is rich and full. In addition to Nick, the sociopathic Perfect Leigh and Jesse Garon are especially well drawn and fascinating. The rich background of the blues, of southern cooking, of friendship, and of the quiet desperation that marks so many lives makes DARK END OF THE STREET feel terribly authentic.<br />There is a lot going on in this novel--as Nick slams from trouble to trouble, barely ahead of a bullet. At times, the plotting can get a little confused. At other times, Nick's plots might be a little too cute. Still, Atkins's strong writing can make even the most unlikely plot turns feel natural. Watch out because DARK END can grab you by the throat and kick you in the rear.	2002-11-30
1324606:US	49115690	R3BZX6LMT0KPFW	0425186458	101905400	Blue Moon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Cute historical details	Band leader Philip Damon has struggled to get on with his life after his wife's murder. Now, two years later, his friends urge him to take a gig in San Francisco--where he first met Diana. He finally agrees, hoping to put the memories behind him. Instead, in 1963 San Francisco, suspended between the beat of the 1950s and age of rock and roll, Damon finds his memories brutally reawakened--by more murder. With the help of San Francisco's only black inspector, who doesn't believe in coincidence, Damon finds hints that his wife was more than he'd ever believed, and that these new murders are connected to her own.<br />Authors Peter Duchin and John Morgan Wilson deliver just about every celebrity of 1963, from Jackie Kennedy and Truman Capote, to the Jefferson Airplane, to Joe DiMaggio to Jack Kerouac along with a host of local names that will make San Francisco natives take note. In many ways, the 1960s were the birth of our age and Duchin and Wilson do a fine job describing this--down to Damon's belief that rock and roll will soon fade (and there are those who say that it has so go figure).<br />For me, this emphasis on celebrities occasionally obscured the mystery. More important, it obscured the character of Damon himself. BLUE MOON would have had dramatically more impact had I truly sympathized with Damon, really cared about his recovery, the loss of is wife, or his safety as he caromed through the streets of San Francisco. Perhaps the celebrity focus took Duchin and Wilson's eyes off that ball because I never gained that emotional connection.<br />BLUE MOON is well written and delivers plenty of action to go with its historical details and slanted look at a world in the midst of change as seen by a man who is blind to the changes.	2002-11-28
1325585:US	49115690	R19I1DF6H5BLTF	0312869037	671327227	Burning the Ice	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wonderful mix of personal growth, world-building, science	The clone colony desperately hung to life on an ice world. Denied the full technological advantages of its spaceship-borne cousins, the colony strives to teraform its planet--but one of the colonists, Manda, has discovered hints of intelligent life on the planet. Teraforming could save the colony, but at the cost of xenocide. Manda has her own problems--as a rare single clone, and barely fits the social norms of her colony. Still, she battles to make herself a place, to discover the secrets of her planet, and to protect both of her planet's life forms from the creche-born post-humans whose ship still circles their sun.<br />Author Laura J. Mixon delivers an emotionally rich story. Manda's attempts to fit into her society, her growth as she discovers her own humanity and those of her clones and her friend Jim, and her physical struggles form a counterpoint to the fascinating story of a colony cut off from Earth's technological innovations and forced to confront the possibility of failure and the loss of all human life on the planet. Mixon's style is strong, yet approachable. BURNING THE ICE is a substantial book, but it pulls the reader in and delivers multiple payoffs.<br />With a teriffic mix of world-building and detailed characters, BooksForABuck. com names Mixon's BURNING THE ICE as one of the best SF novels of the year.	2002-11-27
1329779:US	49115690	R3F9D7T71XGYGK	0399149392	363923998	Chesapeake Blue (Quinn Brothers)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Emotional story of growth	Seth Quinn is back in St. Chris on Maryland's eastern shore. After a couple of years in Europe, he's a rich and celebrated artist. But now he is home--with his family, the family business, and the curse that has followed him over the years since he was a young boy. His mother is blackmailing him, doing her best to spoil everything for him--and for the family that gave him everything. Although he's all grown up now, he'll still pay her off, do just about anything to protect the brothers who raised him.<br />Drucilla Whitcomb Banks has fled a cheating fiance and the life of the outrageously rich in Washington D.C. to strike out on her own in St. Chris. She owns a flower shop and does her best to fit into the community. Given her experience with men, she doesn't want to fall in love--doesn't even want to date. But Seth Quinn can be as convincing as any of the Quinn men and Dru finds herself spending time with Seth despite what she promises herself.<br />Author Nora Roberts writes a compelling emotional story. Both Dru and Seth are damaged by their families and upbringing--damaged in ways that make it hard for either to commit, and in ways that make it hard to open up and trust anyone. Even supernatural help from Seth's adoptive grandmother (who had died before he was adopted) seems unable to do the job. Yet only if the two can overcome their upbringing can they find happiness with each other--or with themselves.<br />Fans of the earlier novels in this series will joy in seeing Cam, Phil, and Ethan again--each with a growing swarm of children who are now growing up. Nora Roberts can't write a bad book and CHESAPEAKE BLUE is a page-turning read. I would have liked to see a little more threat from Gloria--after all, one woman doesn't have a chance against the entire Quinn clan--ghosts and all--and I would have liked to see more of a resolution of Dru's issues. Still, BLUE works as a story and delivers an emotional wallop.	2002-11-23
1332028:US	49115690	RK0AY9YA66CMI	0743452402	248209954	Roger Zelazny's The Dawn of Amber (Dawn of Amber Trilogy)	Books	4	14	24	N	N	Good Zelazny feel	Oberon is a soldier, nothing more, and he's fighting a losing and doomed war. At least he is until his long-lost 'uncle' appears to tell him that he is needed elsewhere. Oberon finds himself a part of a large and disputatious family--all princes of Chaos and capable of walking the shadows. Yet Oberon lacks the internal pattern that allows shadow walking--or at least, his pattern is different. Too different to allow him to use the magics available to the others. Which is too bad because the entire family is under attack and, without some major help, all will be destroyed.<br />THE DAWN OF AMBER is set in the late author Roger Zelazny's Amber universe in the days before the creation of Amber and the shadow reflections that surround it. Author John Gregory Bethancourt does a good job conveying the feel that Zelazny created in his Amber novels. Oberon's family is disfunctional, constantly bickering amongst themselves, and powerful, just as Corwin's family is in the first Zelazny novel in the series.<br />Bethancourt's writing is highly approachable, making DAWN a quick read. I would have preferred, however, for more story to occur. To too large an extent, DAWN sets the stage for future activities, introducing the actors and developing the idea of Oberon's unique pattern. Fans of the Amber series (like me) will enjoy this detail. Even we, are likely to wish that more actually happened in the novel.	2002-11-21
1333177:US	49115690	R36NKJBW0QI128	0743435451	195382347	War of Honor (Honor Harrington #10)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good politics, unbelievable misunderstanding	The Manticore government, now under the control of the venial Conservative Alliance, has gutted the navy, refused to negotiate seriously with the rebuilding Havenite government, and generally made life for Honor and the man she is falling in love with--Admiral White Haven. When the Havenite Secretary of State decides to doctor official correspondence between Manticore and Haven, the political equation begins to heat dangerously--especially as the Havenites have secretly been developing a new navy based on the principles that Honor introduced into the Manticore navy and that led to the Havenite defeat.<br />Most of WAR OF HONOR deals with the political background, both in Haven and Manticore, of the political incompetence that leads to a war that none of the parties really wants. The Conservative Alliance and its coalition allies have essentially no interest in peace because it will mean calling for elections and a reduction in the taxes that fund the programs that allows it to placate its members. Worse, the Manticore government has severely pissed off Grayson, the militaristic planet that has contributed so heavily to a number of Haven defeats over the course of the Honor series. Still, Grayson's loyalties to Honor and White Haven are strong--strong enough that Grayson's navy is assigned to protect Manticore without permission of the Manticore government.<br />Given its futuristic setting, WAR OF HONOR is set on a terribly flawed premise. The idea that an official with both the political and military experience of an Eloise Pritchart would allow her Secretary of State to rewrite her messages and never learn about it is absurd. Especially as she knew that the Secretary was a political rival, she would have relied on a combination of encryption and a trusted personal envoy to ensure that the message got through. Allowing her nation to be plunged into a destructive war without doing so is consistent with the 18th century, but not the future. Too, the brilliant Admiral Theisman's plan involved sending a large part of his navy on a completely unnecessary diversion. Relying on Grayson to do nothing, especially when a large part of its fleet had disappeared, is the kind of mistake that Theisman should never have fallen into.<br />Military fiction fans may complain that WAR OF HONOR concentrates its actual battle scenes into a few pages of this 850 (hardback) page opus. I, however, found the political maneuvers to be interesting and entertaining (except as noted in the previous paragraph.) Author David Weber spends too much time in backfill dialogue, but WAR OF HONOR is still an entertaining and enjoyable read.<br />The C.D. that accompanies this novel is a powerhouse and makes the purchase a bargain. In addition to the e-book text of WAR OF HONOR, the C.D. includes e-book versions of all of the other Honor novels and short story collections to date, as well as about 20 additional novels by various authors including some as recent as 1633 by Weber and Freer.al Theisman's plan involved sending a large part of his navy on a completely unnecessary diversion. Relying on Grayson to do nothing, especially when a large part of its fleet had disappeared, is the kind of mistake that Theisman should never have fallen into. <br />Military fiction fans may complain that WAR OF HONOR concentrates its actual battle scenes into a few pages of this 850 (hardback) page opus. I, however, found the political maneuvers to be interesting and entertaining (except as noted in the previous paragraph.) Author David Weber spends too much time in backfill dialogue, but WAR OF HONOR is still an entertaining and enjoyable read. <br />The C.D. that accompanies this novel is a powerhouse and makes the purchase a bargain. In addition to the e-book text of WAR OF HONOR, the C.D. includes e-book versions of all of the other Honor novels and short story collections to date, as well as about 20 additional novels by various authors including some as recent as 1633 by Weber and Freer.	2002-11-20
1333197:US	49115690	R3FMFYALICJMXM	0345452364	914196507	The Edge of Doom	Books	3	2	2	N	N	well written but emotionally flat	Literature Professor Kate Fansler thinks that, at 50, she knows everything she needs to know about her family. When her brother calls and tells her that a man claims to be her father and can prove it by a DNA test, Kate's world is turned on its head. Jay Smith may be Kate's father, but he clearly holds several more secrets close to his heart. His background seems to have holes in it--and his stories are a little too convenient and self-serving for Kate's peace of mind.<br />Author Amanda Cross (Carolyn G. Heilbrun) writes with an approachable style that keeps the pages turning. I found myself, however, more and more unsympathetic toward Kate. Her attitude toward her family--disinterest and contempt, might be appropriate and justified, but this wasn't clear from the book. Kate's reaction toward her late life discovery that she might not be the person she always thought she was seems mediated by literature rather than honestly felt (okay, Kate is a Literature Professor so this is not totally out of line, but still, I never really felt the emotional impact of such an important event).	2002-11-20
1337932:US	49115690	R3IQF207WS15OF	0743435427	615518822	1633 (Assiti Shards)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Strong follow-up to 1632--West VA coal miners in 30 year war	The West Virginia natives transplanted into the 30 years war in the 1600s have weathered the first storm, but now the Cardinal Richelieu has decided to put his own weight, and that of France behind the Hapsburg monarchies that wish to stomp out the republican threat that ex-union boss and current United States President Mike Stearns represents. The wealth of France and the armed might of Spain make the military genius of Augustus Adolphus and the limited technology possessed by the Americans seem small indeed. Worse, Richelieu. the Spanish, and Charles of England have gotten their hands on American history books. They know the consequences of their mistakes and are resolved not to make them.<br />Authors Eric Flint and David Weber personalize this alternative history telling the stories of Stearns, of his political opponent and now Admiral Simpson, of Stearns' wife and sister as each battles to transform the brutal history of our own world and to survive the reaction. The story flips from central Germany to the courts of Paris to the Tower of London to the Amsterdam of Rembrant and the Prince of Orange.<br />Although much of their 21st century technology is depleted, Stearns and his United States (now largely made up of Germans) are gradually rebuilding an appropriate technology base. They have had the advantage of tolerance, accepting help from Jews, Catholics, and Protestants when each is an oppressed group somewhere, and of their libraries. Yet tolerance is one lesson that Richelieu is quick to learn. He won't force his enemies to unite--rather, he will welcome them with open arms--if doing so allows him to eliminate the Swedish threat and carve out a place for his beloved France.<br />So much for the plot--how did it work. 1633 spent way too much time (perhaps the first 200 pages in the hardback version) setting the stage and managing the transition from the single novel 1632 to the larger series that is to follow. Frankly, some of this was grim reading with characters lecturing one another at great length about history, politics, modern medicine, and the importance of not being biggotted. Once Flint and Weber finally got through this stage setting, however, the novel definitely took shape. Even more so than in 1632, Fint and Weber personalized the battles and made the reader feel the sacrifices that the Americans and their German friends were making. Like any 'middle book' in a series, 1633 left many ends unraveled and opened a number of plot devices that are almost certainly intended for use in future novels. Still, the 400 pages were fast reading and emotionally compelling.characters lecturing one another at great length about history, politics, modern medicine, and the importance of not being biggotted. Once Flint and Weber finally got through this stage setting, however, the novel definitely took shape. Even more so than in 1632, Fint and Weber personalized the battles and made the reader feel the sacrifices that the Americans and their German friends were making. Like any 'middle book' in a series, 1633 left many ends unraveled and opened a number of plot devices that are almost certainly intended for use in future novels. Still, the 400 pages were fast reading and emotionally compelling.	2002-11-16
1338663:US	49115690	R2T7ZRB88BGINB	1551669528	150160226	The Bad Witness	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Interesting and fun--couldn't stop turning the pages	Television producer Sally Harrington is called as a witness in a murder trial. While on the stand, the prosecutor tries to make Sally seem a complete slut--and completely untrustworthy. Meanwhile, her life is confused, with her longstanding relationship going nowhere and a much younger cop suddenly looking better and better. Add an attack heliocopter and a hit and run assault on Sally and her cop-date, and you have a woman with real problems.<br />THE BAD WITNESS is a strange book. There really isn't much of a mystery in it. Much of the story is actually back-story, as one witness after another steps up to tell of what happened in the earlier Sally Harrington novel TROUBLE BECOMES HER. Strangely, though, it works. Author Laura Van Wormer delivers a well-written and compelling page-turner.<br />Put on the spot as a 'bad witness', Sally Harrington emerges as a sympathetic character. Although she continues to look at every twist of fortune as an opportunity for news coverage and more money for Sally, this behavior has become understandable and even admirable. Sally may be a BAD WITNESS, but she makes for an interesting and fun character.	2002-11-15
1339294:US	49115690	R37FXR4894Y1J7	0765301504	94645607	The Alchemist's Door	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting history, magic. Logic flaws weaken plot	Scientist and astrologer John Dee and his family have left the court of Queen Elizabeth fleeing from a demon. The demon pursues them, however, and Dee finds himself in Prague where the mad Emperor demands delivery of the 36th righteous man--the man who's death will lead to the destruction of the world order and an opportunity for a man or demon to reshape the universe. Together with the Rabbi Judah Loew, legendary creator of the golem, Dee searches for the 36th righteous man--and for a way to stop the forces of evil that threaten to overrun Europe. Because the doorway between the universes stands open and demons have begun to make their way back into our world.<br />Author Lisa Goldstein delivers a deft mixture of history and fantasy. Her writing is clear and keeps the pages turning. I was distracted, however by some of the logic holes. Why, for example, didn't Emperor Rudolf simply kill everyone on his list rather than engage Dee and Loew to find the one man? He certainly didn't show much respect for life. What, exactly, was the whole Erzsebet thing about--was it really only to bring in old Hungarian legends? And what happened to the second demon--the one that could physically manifest itself and that served Kelley? Finally, the ultimate battle seemed anticlimactic and I was left wondering whether Dee really sacrificed much, really made a heroic gesture. Attempting to close to door between the universes would have been a more powerful symbol if Dee had been able to truly use the magics that came through the gateway. Instead, his sacrifice wasn't particularly large, reducing the power of the novel.<br />THE ALCHEMIST'S DOOR is a pleasant read with its setting in the historically significant period of Elizabeth I, its use of historic characters in alternate history settings, and its travels through the mystical world of Eastern Europe at a time when the Turks were still capable of threatening all of Christendom and when Jews were forced into ghettos.	2002-11-15
1339433:US	49115690	ROL8BI6WY8GW2	0312305001	551879642	Delusion: A Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Involving with great characters	It seems like an open and shut case. A beautiful woman is found killed and her husband has blood on his shoes. Psychologist Peter Zak is asked to do an analysis of the husband, but something about the case bothers him. The evidence seems too perfect. Nick, the husband, is certainly paranoid, but as Zak comes to find out, sometimes paranoia is the appropriate response when they really are out to get you. The only question is, who THEY are and why they now seem coming for Zak.<br />Author G. H. Ephron (the pen name for writing team Hallie Ephron and Donald A. Davidoff) delivers a really good mystery. Zak is a sympathetic character with his attempts to wade through Nick's insanity to find the truth. Zak's own emotional trauma (his wife was also murdered) gives him both emotional depth and lets him sympathize with Nick's efforts to prove his innocence.	2002-11-15
1341491:US	49115690	R3LMP6T2O9Q1X6	0385335350	230297888	A Summer to Remember	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Wonderfully emotionally satisfying and rich	Miss Lauren Edgeworth was left at the alter a year before but she is strong--and wishes for nothing more than her independence. When handsome rake Kit Viscount Ravensberg swoops in with marriage in his mind, Lauren sees a way to get them both what they want. The plan--an announced engagement that will let Kit avoid his family's schemes. Once the engagement is broken, Lauren's reputation will prevent any future marriage plans and let her get on with her life. In the meantime, Kit can open Lauren's eyes to adventure for a SUMMER TO REMEMBER.<br />Set in Regency England, A SUMMER TO REMEMBER offers a combination of the best of regency manners with steamy desire. Both Lauren and Kit are powerfully damaged characters with inherent nobilities that make them sympathetic and right for one another. Still, Lauren's clever plan may turn out to be too clever by half when she begins to fall in love with Kit only to realize that his soulmate is another woman.<br />Author Mary Balogh delivers an emotionally powerful novel. Lauren's slow opening to womanhood is satisfying and believable. The steps she takes to help Kit reach reconciliation with his family--despite the risks she takes by doing so--further endear her to the reader. Her history of abandonment makes her desire for independence seem essential and non-negotiable, even if it means forgoing the love of her life. Kit is a wonderful hero--a combination of rake and hero, willing to protect the weak with no thought for society's rules. Only he can help Lauren escape from her past--just as only she can rescue him from himself.	2002-11-13
1342189:US	49115690	R1UAEFPBI0C69Z	0312304900	972703850	Jamaica Blue	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good feel for egotism of rock and roll	When an old friend asks him to check out a new band, rock and roll reviewer Mick Sever drops his book tour and heads for Jamaica. It looks like Sever's friend, promoter Bobby Vane has hit the jackpot. Derrick and the Laments is magical--and Sever writes a complimentary review. Surely the two murders that happened after the band's shows are just coincidence. But when a third woman is killed--and one of the band's roadies accused of the murder, Sever knows he's got to look more closely. He's sure he saw confusion, not guilt in the accused man's eyes.<br />Author Don Bruns writes convincingly about the music business and the power, money, drugs, and sex that surround it. His descriptions of the charismatic band leader Derrick ring true. JAMAICA BLUE is a well written first novel for Bruns. I would have liked to see more attention to potential red herrings, however. Although Sever identified several potential suspects early on, he never seemed to get around to investigating them--surely a top journalist would have tracked down these loose ends.<br />JAMAICA BLUE isn't a perfect novel but it marks a promising first mystery. I'll be looking for more novels by Don Bruns.	2002-11-13
1342221:US	49115690	RJ687XHCO5IKS	0765303698	299678942	Transcension	Books	5	0	0	N	N	intriguing love story as the world is transformed	In the not terribly near future, mall-rat Amanda seeks thrills and the admiration of her fellows. When the game takes her to a part of the world that has given up science to live under the rules of the 'god of one's choice,' Amanda is forced to confront her responsibilities and the end of her extended adolescence. Mathewmark lives in the anti-technology enclave, yet he doesn't quite fit. Amanda and her adventures appeals to him at the same time as it repels him. The two flirt with danger and each other, while the world itself is being driven toward a new age.<br />The evolving attraction/repulsion between Amanda and Mathewmark serves as backdrop to the plans of an artificial intelligence, Aleph. Aleph is the fast-evolved descendent of early artificial intelligence work (partly conducted by resurrected character Abdel-Malek) which serves as an invisible but dominant character through much of the novel. Human decisions to renunciate higher technology, both in Mathewmark's enclave and in the larger society of the Metro has clearly done little to constrain the power of this over-intelligence. Indeed, reality itself becomes questionable as neither characters nor the reader can always determine what exists, and what exists only in the mind of Aleph.<br />Author Damien Broderick begins his work with quotes from unibomber Theodore Kaczynski and Sun technologist Bill Joy and uses the novel to address the question of whether humans can renunciate the future and draw a line in the sand. For the most part, though, the novel is the story of two people from two different societies who must strive to determine whether they can create a relationship--or whether they even want such a strange relationship. The parallel to the relationship between machine and man is implicit but largely unexplored.<br />Broderick's fine writing keeps the reader focussed on the page although the future-speak by the mall rats is occasionally distracting.	2002-11-13
1347150:US	49115690	R1X37EXSMCGHAA	0684864886	559317641	Meanwhile Back at the Ranch : A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More Kinky views of life and the strange folks who live it	Private detective (and former musician) Kinky Friedman finds himself torn between a missing three-legged cat in Texas and a missing autistic child in New York. The cat comes first and Kinky heads down to Utopia, Texas for some good-ole-boy moments, but his duty calls him back to New York where his recurring pal Rambam demands to be made part of the case (Rambam also thinks he might have found his future bride--the sister of the missing child and an obvious suspect). Using visions, both his own and others', and some clever detecting Kinky strips away some of the confusion--but can either a three-legged cat or an autistic child survive for long on their own--either in the wilds of Texas or those of New York?<br />Fans of the Kinky Friedman series will find a lot to enjoy in MEANWHILE BACK AT THE RANCH. Kinky's observations about life in general, his descriptions of the customs and people he meets, and his insights into human nature ring true. Kinky's strange similies will bring a smile to even the most jaded reader (maybe especially to the jaded reader). And Friedman goes out of his way to be an equal opportunity offender, slinging insults at all religions and ways of life.<br />Kinky Friedman books are not for everyone but MEANWHILE BACK AT THE RANCH is one of the better ones.	2002-11-08
1347817:US	49115690	R3FJ6H6GV0OKON	0743417860	326564150	Studio Sex: An Annika Bengtzon Thriller (Annika Bengtzon Thrillers)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Very interesting and very European	Intern reporter Annika Bengtzon gets a call on the 'Creepy Calls' line and angles for a role in reporting the story. To her surprise, she gets the assignment and soon finds herself in the midst of the investigation. Through a combination of luck and hard work, Annika gains some insights into the case--tracking down facts that give her newspaper several scoops--but the case is more complicated that she first believes. Somehow a longstanding government corruption case is involved, and the competitive press starts pointing the finger at Annika--insisting that she was running planted news.<br />Set in Sweden and written by Swedish author Liza Marklund, STUDIO SEX feels European with a concern for international happenings that may seem, well, foreign to U.S. readers. Political intrigues play a role, and U.S. readers may be surprised by the apparent lack of privacy and protection that government officials are accorded. Marklund's insights into human reaction to death--the obsessive grief of many who barely knew the victim yet are now seeking a connection with her--ring true. Annika's battle with journalistic ethics--balancing respect for the dead and their families against the public's right to information--reflects the larger story.<br />The fundamental story of Studio Sex is that of the growing maturation of Annika as she battles her own demons and tries to get at the truth behind the death of the haunted victim. Marklund's paragraph introductions, showing a young woman's descent into sexual domination and abuse add a texture to the novel--a texture that strengthens rather than distracting from the story.	2002-11-08
1348711:US	49115690	RFZ0IWTSBXC9K	031287426X	850392333	Wolf's Head, Wolf's Heart	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Wolf-raised woman romps through evil folks with lots of help	Wolf-raised Firekeeper has her hands full with her obligations to the royal (human) family and to the royal animals. The evil Queen Gustin/Valora has stolen magical items and intends to use their forbidden powers to reclaim her thrown. Evil Lady Melinda Shield may have the ability to unlock those magical powers--but do her ambitions allow her to share control with another? Somehow, Firekeeper, along with assorted young noble friends, must protect the royal family from the Queen's assasination attempt, recover the magical artifacts, and resolve the budding conflict between animal and human.<br />WOLF'S HEAD, WOLF'S HEART is a huge novel--the hardback edition is over 600 pages of small print--but the action doesn't really begin for the first couple of hundred pages. Author Jane Lindskold manages a balance between action and the romantic entanglements of her young characters. Interestingly, the male characters play the secondary role that female characters play in many traditional fantasy novels. In contrast, Lindskold's primary protagonists are all females.<br />Lindskold does a good job rendering Queen Valora's ambassador, Baron Waln (Walnut) Endbrook sympathetically, despite his amoral character and occasionally evil behavior. Lindskold is a talented enough author to know that humanizing the antagonists can help strengthen the novel. Unfortunately, WOLF'S HEAD, WOLF'S HEART needs a lot of help. From the botched assassination (Firekeeper asks why such a public and doomed assassination was attempted but no one ever answers this question) to the overblown concerns over the assault on a lighthouse (are we really supposed to believe that a dozen pirates trapped in a lighthouse are a threat to two kingdoms), Firekeeper's friends are too powerful (and just in time, new friends appear whenever things look dicey) and her enemies too pathetic to add much suspense.	2002-11-07
1355305:US	49115690	R3AJK91L4D096D	0373272561	441269777	A Cry in the Night (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1186)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gripping and Emotional	Rocky Mountain Search and Rescue is back! This time it's Buzz Malone, searching for a four-year-old boy lost on a mountain with an out-of-control forest fire headed his way. Worse, the victim isn't just any little boy--it's his son, a child he never knew he had until he was in danger of losing him. His ex-wife, Kelly, had kept little Eddie a secret because Buzz had made it clear he did not want children. Now Buzz and Kelly must join forces, putting their differences aside to track Eddie down before something terrible happens.<br />In this gripping, emotional story, Linda Castillo deftly blends the turbulent feelings of a couple who love almost too deeply, pitted against the indifferent ravages of nature. The richly drawn setting adds intensity to the story, and the action scenes, depicted in a fresh and bold manner, kept the pages turning. A great read from a consistently entertaining author. (And the eye-catching cover doesn't hurt matters!)	2002-11-01
1355665:US	49115690	R3FOFSQ69G2056	1575668793	428806634	Maggie Needs An Alibi (Maggie Kelly Mysteries)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Charming story--fictional hero confuses author's life	Author Maggie Kelly has made it big--stepping up from historical romances to clever historical mysteries set in regency England, with a properly dashing regency hero and his bumbling side-kick. She's just finishing her latest when her inspiration becomes material and the Vicount Saint Just (her hero) and his sidekick suddenly appear--solid, real, and in New York.<br />Once Maggie persuades herself that she's not completely crazy and that she really has created two characters, she tries to get on with her life--a life complicated by the classic alpha hero type who is a whole lot more enjoyable to read about than to have to live with. Unfortunately, her life includes publisher Kirk Toland who seems intent on getting back into her bed. When Kirk ends up dead and Maggie the primary suspect, it's time for some serious detecting. Maggie, Saint Just, and way-cute cop Steve Wendell manage to compete, cooperate, and get in each other's way as they try to get to the bottom of this mystery.<br />Author Kasey Michaels delivers a funny and charming mystery. Maggie is damaged enough to be entirely sympathetic. Saint Just displays just the right balance of arrogance and bafflement at the 21st century. He's a fish out of water in modern New York who, nevertheless, manages to find his way. Minor characters, especially the cute forger Mare, add to the texture of this fine novel.	2002-11-01
1356591:US	49115690	RMTKS7ZBY5KEI	1575667819	792223985	Hot Dog: A Melanie Travis Mystery (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Problems follow poor dog-breeder Melanie Travis	Melanie Travis's life has changed. Sam, the boyfriend who deserted her on her way to the alter, is back in her life and anxious to start where he left off. Bob, her ex-husband, is doing everything he can to be a good father to their child, and her poodle puppy wins her first champion point. But things are a long way from perfect. A beautiful reporter has decided that Melanie's ability to stumble over bodies everywhere she goes is a sure ticket to T.V. stardom. And someone begins harrassing Melanie with phone calls and even break-ins. Gradually Melanie has to confront the fact that someone is obsessed with her and means her no good.<br />Author Laurien Berenson delivers a perky single mother (of a seven year-old son and two standard poodle daughters) with a nose for mystery and a personal life that never seems to go quite right. Melanie is a wonderfully developed character--smart and sympathetic with her assorted family and male attachments (both ex and current). Fans of the series will be delighted to see how Eve (her younger dog) is growing up and catch up on Aunt Peg's latest outrageous plan.<br />HOT DOG isn't the standard Melanie Travis mystery. There is a surprising lack of dead bodies (pity the poor reporter). This time, the threat is more subtle--and more personal. Berenson's smooth writing is engaging and clever.	2002-10-31
1358074:US	49115690	R1SRUI4IQ1381I	0312282648	751287852	The Slayers of Seth: A Story of Intrigue and Murder Set in Ancient Egypt (Ancient Egypt Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good feel for intrigue of ancient Egyptian court	The Slayers of Seth are a powerful group of soldiers, favored by the Pharaoh, and swaggering through Egypt as a result of their victories over the Hyksos. Now, however, they are in crisis. One of them has been killed in an apparent ritual murder while another's daughter has been accused of poisoning her lover. Lord Amerotke, chief judge for Pharaoh, must somehow get to the bottom of this threat to the military--and possibly the Pharaoh herself. Seth is the Egyptian god of death and destruction and is an apt symbol for this brutal cult of warriors who gloried on blood, yet who form one of the great pillars of Pharaoh's power.<br />Author P. C. Doherty makes ancient Egypt come to life. The political intrigue of the court and conflicting power bases as well as the technologies of poison and magic all are vividly depicted in this fine mystery. Amerotke is an engaging hero with his dogged search for the truth and willingness to confront the power of the entrenched military. Doherty's writing is highly approachable, making history come to life with the ageless emotions of revenge, love, and hatred.<br />Doherty doesn't spend much time delving into the characters themselves--something that I found missing. Still, the story and the history move the story along and engage the reader.	2002-10-30
1358231:US	49115690	RGON7TR93FKKH	0786927143	60205792	Dissolution (Forgotten Realms:  R.A. Salvatore's War of the Spider Queen, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting look at fascinating society	The great Drow (dark elf) city of Menzoberranzan is in danger. The spider god of the Drow has withdrawn her favor and all of the magics that depend on her are now at risk. While the great noble houses continue to tear at one another in typical dark elf fashion, secret forces may be pushing for even greater changes to the status quo. Magic instructor Pharaun is sent to investigate the mysterious way that many of the male Drow (because of their inability to commune with the spider goddess, males are non-dominant in this culture) have vanished. Together with his 'friend' weapon master Ryld Argith, Pharaun probes the slums of Menzoberrazan--slums where excaped slaves, embittered enemies of the Drow, and adventurers coexist in uneasy proximity. Making matters wrose, Pharaun is the target of a family feud--staying alive long enough to investigate, let alone solve, the mystery, may be difficult.<br />Although author Richard Lee Byers clearly prefers the sections of the novel relating to the adventures of Pharaun and Ryld Argith, long scenes deal with other characters and other conflicts in this complex society. Some of this felt like it was setting the stage for the series that DISSOLUTION kicks off rather than being a necessary part of the novel itself.<br />Dark elves are a fascinating subject for an author to explore. Like humans, their motivations are driven by self-interest. Like humans, dark elves often find themselves compelled to cooperate for the common good--lest all of them suffer. Unlike humans, however, dark elves refuse to disguise their self-interest and also refuse to put in place the social institutions that humans use to control our destructive behavior. Author Richard Lee Byers does a fine job exploring the nature of the Drow, the religion that justifies their behavior, and the way that their self-interest can often lead to a strangely 'good' result.<br />I would have liked to see more of this ultimate expression of Adam Smith's discovery that individuals working in their self-interest can somehow generate a result that drives a general good. Instead, Byers's Drow economy is difficult to believe. Could a weapon crafter really afford to slaughter slaves casually to demonstrate the sharpness of his blade? Surely the costs of capturing, feeding, and caring for a slave would make this casual destruction uneconomic--and therefore against the Drow self-interest. I'm still waiting for the novel that truly and consistently extends this concept of Drow self-interest to its logical extreme. DISSOLUTION definitely takes steps in this direction and it's worth reading--but it doesn't quite deliver on the promise.uals working in their self-interest can somehow generate a result that drives a general good. Instead, Byers's Drow economy is difficult to believe. Could a weapon crafter really afford to slaughter slaves casually to demonstrate the sharpness of his blade? Surely the costs of capturing, feeding, and caring for a slave would make this casual destruction uneconomic--and therefore against the Drow self-interest. I'm still waiting for the novel that truly and consistently extends this concept of Drow self-interest to its logical extreme. DISSOLUTION definitely takes steps in this direction and it's worth reading--but it doesn't quite deliver on the promise.	2002-10-30
1362827:US	49115690	R2ERGNFD48OUGR	0786234008	732758337	Seducing Mr. Heywood: A Regency Romance (Five Star First Edition Romance Series)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Promising but falls short	Lady Sophia Rowley was the talk of the ton, highlight of any social gathering in Regency London, and notorious as a woman who had married three times and taken countless lovers. Now, she has returned to her late husband's ancestral home with the intention of taking on her responsibilities as a mother. After being abandoned by her last lover, she feels the need for calm, but she wonders whether she can fit into the countryside. Mr. Charles Heywood is the priest for Sophia's town, and appointed by her late husband as co-ward for Sophia's two sons. The attraction between the two is nearly immediate (once Charles recovers from an initial stumble), but Charles cannot bear the thought of a purely sexual relationship while Sophia has put all ideas of marriage behind her.<br />The arrival of Sophia's father puts the slow development of their relationship on a more intense pace. Her father has thrice sold Sophia on the marriage market and intends to regain control of his daughter, her figure, and the fortune her children stand to inherit from her late husband. The Earl of Dunhaven has even brought a handsome young man along with him. Charles is an obstacle, but the Earl doesn't let obstacles stop him.<br />Author Jo Manning has done her regency homework--the scandals, meals, wardrobes, and focus on reputation all ring true. I would have preferred for her to dig deeper into the emotional development of her two characters. Instead, Charles goes from being a good guy, essentially nowhere. Sophia is understood to have been largely misunderstood and quickly learns the value of motherhood and the worth of being the squire of a rural village compared to the superficial nature of London society. Even Earl Dunhaven's nasty plots come undone too quickly.	2002-10-26
1363651:US	49115690	RVFKQJGO4OYUB	0312878842	471875409	Requiem for the Sun (The Symphony of Ages)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Welcome addition for fans of the original series	Although Rhapsody, Ashe, and Achmed have brought peace to their world and defeated the terrible F'dor demon that threatened their entire planet, all is not well. Another demon, this one sharing the body and soul of Rhapsody's ancient enemy, Michael, remains free on the face of the planet--and his sick desire for Rhapsody remains strong even after the hundreds of years since he last saw her. With the help of his demon and of his sword of winds, Michael plans to make Rhapsody his once more--regardless of what her husband or friends or she herself have to say about it. And even Achmed's powers against the demon and Rhapsody's power over the wind may not be enough to stop him.<br />Several subplots--involving the Sorbold Empire and Achmed's attempt to build a magical device complicate the story but do not appear especially well integrated--possibly author Elizabeth Haydon is setting up sequels. Even if so, these seemed to distract rather than add to the novel.<br />Fans of the Rhapsody series will be overjoyed to see Rhapsody back, and to see that Haydon is wrapping up several prophesies that were not fully dealt with in the earlier trilogy. Although REQUIEM is not a formal part of the original trilogy, readers are unlikely to get full enjoyment from it without first reading the earlier novels.	2002-10-25
1364578:US	49115690	R2KKXV81O7GIJ0	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Good stuff--sympathetic character damaged but dealing	Romance author Melanie Joan Hall hires Private Investigator Sunny Randall to help guard her against the the author's stalking ex-husband. Sunny wants to do more than guard--but as she begins to investigate the ex-husband, psychiatrist John Melvin, she begins to discover hints that Melvin is doing more than stalking. A psychiatrist whose practice seems to consist solely of beautiful women has plenty of opportunities to do evil. Sunny's investigations soon lead her to trouble--and danger. Sunny's personal problems form a reverse image of Melanie Joan's. Like Melanie Joan, Sunny can't get over her ex-husband and, as she investigates Melvin, she starts to work on her own issues.<br />Author Robert B. Parker delivers an enjoyable mystery. Fans of Parker will be familiar with the issues of being unable to live with, or without, a particular relationship, but here Sunny's problems and their mirror image problems with Melanie Jone add rather than detract from the story. Parker does a good job showing the positive as well as dangers of psychiatry, avoiding a fall into cliche.<br />Sunny's dialogue doesn't pack the impact of Parker's more famous Spenser series but this character remains fresh and interesting. Her mix of toughness and vulnerability makes Sunny sympathetic even when she doesn't make the most logical decisions.	2002-10-24
1365914:US	49115690	R1LU7ZA8S1GUS6	0671319965	166728121	The Tide of Victory (Belisarius)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good book in Great Series	Belisarius's Byzantine army, equipped with 17th century weaponry, has wiped out the Malwa invasion of Persia. Yet the Malwa Empire, led by the future intelligence of Link, remains larger and more powerful than the combined Roman and Persian might. Only by taking the war to the Malwa in India itself can the world have a chance at victory--and to eliminate the destruction that Link will surely bring if not stopped.<br />In THE TIDE OF VICTORY, the Indian rebel forces, the Persians, the Romans, and allies Ethiopia and Kungas combine to attack Malwa from the south, northwest, and southwest. The Malwa are slowly adopting more modern weapons and tactics. Belesarius and his allies will have to up their own skills if they are to survive, let alone achieve victory.<br />THE TIDE OF VICTORY continues this fine alternative history series featuring Belisarius, the great Byzantine general--here equipped with a crystal intelligence that gives him access to knowledge of the great generals of the musket period---Grant, Sherman, Lee, Wellington, and King Gustav Adolf of Sweden.<br />The highlights of this novel comes in Belisarius's military campaign toward the end of the novel (which is reminiscent of Lee's Peninsula campaigns during the American Civil War), and especially in the doings of the other characters. Minor characters from earlier in the series now have major roles to play themselves. Antoinia, Belisarius's wife, can be cloying with Belisarius, but seems heroic apart from him. Eon, the Ethiopian King, has grown from a boy to a man--and hero. I especially liked the development of Narses--another historically significant Byzantine who, here, has betrayed the Roman cause and is now struggling to create a world where he, an intelligent, scheming, amoral eunich, can thrive.<br />Authors Eric Flint and David Drake deliver exciting military action--intriguing alternate history matchups between late Roman cavalry and 17th century musketeers, and interesting characters.<br />Belisarius was one of the world's great generals and is an ideal candidate for alternative history. From the story-telling standpoint, however, he has become a little too successful. In particular, his clever adoption of a new technology just in time to meet the needs of battle is starting to get predictable. Link has been in control of the Malwa for a long time--why not make Belisarius use his genius against superior weapons--rather than simply adopt early-modern tactics to slaughter huge hordes of (admittedly mostly evil) Malwa?Belisarius was one of the world's great generals and is an ideal candidate for alternative history. From the story-telling standpoint, however, he has become a little too successful. In particular, his clever adoption of a new technology just in time to meet the needs of battle is starting to get predictable. Link has been in control of the Malwa for a long time--why not make Belisarius use his genius against superior weapons--rather than simply adopt early-modern tactics to slaughter huge hordes of (admittedly mostly evil) Malwa?	2002-10-23
1367052:US	49115690	RVNO5VLSZJQ85	0671578715	187364733	Fortune's Stroke (Belisarius)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Belisarius and the musketeers--Byzantine alt. history	Belisarius has pushed back the Malwa (Indian) invasion of Persia, but the threat remains. While the main Malwa army regroups in southern Persia, their main cavalry force is crossing the Zacros Mountains and threatening northern Mesopotamia. Even the smaller army is large enough to do great damage--and to force the defending Persians and Romans to divide their forces, allowing the main army to attack once more. Somehow, Belisarius must slow the best army the Malwa can bring--yet can even slowing that army do more than delay the inevitable conquest of the entire world by Malwa armies guided by a future intelligence--and equipped with future technology?<br />FORTUNE'S STROKE continues the BELISARIUS Series. Historically, Belisarius was the greatest general of the late ancient world--the man Byzantine Emperor Justinian relied upon in his reconquest of the Roman Mediterranian. In this alternative history, Belisarius is warned by a crystal intelligence of the destruction sought by the future entity Link, and Link's human servants. Using Roman technology and modern knowledge, Belisarius is able to build a small force of musketeers and develop combined arm tactics that combine the best of Robert E. Lee, and Wellington.<br />Although the series continues to be interesting, with engaging characters and vivid battle scenes, FORTUNE'S STROKE is not the strongest novel in the series. Although Belisarius and his allies repeatedly note that the first law of battle is that things get messed up (in stronger language), in fact, Belisarius's plans never actually get messed up (except a minor problem at the very beginning). He seems to have just the right future technology at just the right time to do maximum damage to his enemies. Worse, the most dangerous enemies he faces are clearly being set up to become future allies. I also felt disappointed by the 'clever' Belisarius plan at the end. The entire book led up to this--it seems to me that Flint and Drake could have come up with something a little more, uh, oblique.<br />Authors Eric Flint and David Drake deliver vivid characters along with detailed battle scenes. Although the interaction between Belisarius and Antonia is sometimes a little too precious, most characters become real--even the Malwa and their allies.<br />Fans of this series will definitely want to read FORTUNE'S STROKE as it details a critical period in the war between Rome and the Malwa, continues character development, and even--brutally but realistically--ends the lives of some characters. This book should not be read first--but fortunately, Flint and Drake offer the first three novels in the series for free from the Baen.com Library so this isn't a problem.mething a little more, uh, oblique. <br />Authors Eric Flint and David Drake deliver vivid characters along with detailed battle scenes. Although the interaction between Belisarius and Antonia is sometimes a little too precious, most characters become real--even the Malwa and their allies. <br />Fans of this series will definitely want to read FORTUNE'S STROKE as it details a critical period in the war between Rome and the Malwa, continues character development, and even--brutally but realistically--ends the lives of some characters. This book should not be read first--but fortunately, Flint and Drake offer the first three novels in the series for free from the Baen.com Library so this isn't a problem.	2002-10-23
1371811:US	49115690	R1HA1KX9PMORZU	0345444213	374292569	American Empire: The Center Cannot Hold	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Aftermath of WWI, with the South as defeated Germany	he United States's victory during the great war has not led to the utopia many had hoped for. A nazi-like movement has sprung up in the (truncated) Confederate States of America led by Jake Featherston. Featherston blames the south's defeat on the black uprising and seeks to make the south strong--and to repay the U.S. for its sins. Rebellion simmers in occupied Canada and Utah where disaffected Mormons continue to resist incorporation into the U.S. Meanwhile, the boom of the 1920s ends abruptly with the crash of 1929. Even the great alliance between Imperial Germany and the U.S. is stretched thin with both sides eying the other for advantage.<br />Author Harry Turtledove delivers an intriguing alternate history novel with extremely close parallels to the actual history we experienced. When the U.S. lost the civil war (thanks largely to intervention by France and Britain), it joined the emerging imperial power of Germany. As a result, World War I ended with a victory for Germany and the U.S., but the results are largely identical. The defeated countries seek revenge, secretly arm, and train in foreign nation adventures (here a Mexican civil war replaces the historic Spanish civil war).<br />Turtledove's great strength as a writer is to select a group of characters who he follows through the novel and through the series. Some are killed and others added, but he gives the reader a sense of what it is like to be a defeated southerner, a Yankee elated by victory after decades of defeat, or a Canadian, occupied by Americans who care little about native traditions and are happy to dispense with niceties of the rule of law. A mix of historical and fictional characters, with the historical characters altered by the events of the story, adds to the interest and gives Turtledove's wry sense of humor an opportunity to flourish.<br />The fundamental story of THE CENTER CANNOT HOLD is that of Jake Featherston's rise to power in the South (paralleling Hitler's rise to power). The sections of the novel that concentrate on Featherston, and on the members of the Freedom (Nazi) Party in the defeated south, are the highlights of the novel. Unfortunately, too much of the page count is taken up developing strories that do not go anywhere in this novel and that involve people who don't promise to be very interesting in the future (so little Mary McGregor wants to be a terrorist like her father before her--who cares). Perhaps because of the large number of characters whom Turtledove follows, we seem to get introduced to them over and over again--learning repeatedly that Ann Colleton doesn't like blacks because she lost her brother in their rebellion, that McGregor hates Americans because they killed her terrorist father, and that Nellie Jacobs will keep the murder she committed to her grave and doesn't like sex.<br />This isn't among Turtledove's best alternative history novels, but it does deal with an important period. Setting the events of Germany and Europe in the U.S. and the south gives history an immediacy and lets us feel the appeal of the dictator in a way that is sometimes difficult when he addresses only foreign concerns and foreign fears. Although THE CENTER CANNOT HOLD was not my favorite Turtledove novel, I look forward to the next as the buildup to a new second world war begins.The sections of the novel that concentrate on Featherston, and on the members of the Freedom (Nazi) Party in the defeated south, are the highlights of the novel. Unfortunately, too much of the page count is taken up developing strories that do not go anywhere in this novel and that involve people who don't promise to be very interesting in the future (so little Mary McGregor wants to be a terrorist like her father before her--who cares). Perhaps because of the large number of characters whom Turtledove follows, we seem to get introduced to them over and over again--learning repeatedly that Ann Colleton doesn't like blacks because she lost her brother in their rebellion, that McGregor hates Americans because they killed her terrorist father, and that Nellie Jacobs will keep the murder she committed to her grave and doesn't like sex. <br />This isn't among Turtledove's best alternative history novels, but it does deal with an important period. Setting the events of Germany and Europe in the U.S. and the south gives history an immediacy and lets us feel the appeal of the dictator in a way that is sometimes difficult when he addresses only foreign concerns and foreign fears. Although THE CENTER CANNOT HOLD was not my favorite Turtledove novel, I look forward to the next as the buildup to a new second world war begins.	2002-10-18
1374277:US	49115690	R2OKCNE49IYZ8M	0312868731	336749750	The Bishop in the West Wing: A Bishop Blackie Ryan Novel	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Great writing, is it a 'done right' version of Clinton?	When newly elected President Jack McGurn (a Chicago Democrat, Catholic, and liberal) finds his white house apparently haunted by a poltergeist, he calls on his Church for help. The Cardinal of Chicago sends his trusty associate Bishop, Blackwood (Blackie) Ryan to sort things out. Once he reaches the white house, however, Ryan learns that there is more going on than just an apparently harmless poltergeist. The evil Republicans are willing to do anything to get rid of this Democratic President, his own Vice President won't talk to him, and the death of his wife prevents McGurn from finding a healthy relationship with women. Meanwhile, a civil war in China threatens to draw the world into a nuclear holocast.<br />Blackie has his work cut out for him. Fortunately, he has the help of McGurn's two teenaged daughters, a beautiful deputy chief of staff (who just might be in love with the President), and a sister who happens to be an expert in poltergeist behavior. Battling conservative Christians, including the local Archbishop, Blackie supports his friend, does damage control on the rumors of sexual misbehavior that (falsely) plague the president, and helps preserve world peace.<br />Author Andrew M. Greeley is a wonderfully talented writer and Bishop Blackie, with is ratty White Sox jacket and inability to keep track of his ring of office, is simultaneously sympathetic and quietly noble. Greeley fans won't be surprised to find that, as usual, women dominate the men around them, occasionally allowing their men to have the illusion of any control over their lives (could this attitude explain why Greeley became a priest???). This isn't all bad, however, and Greeley delivers some nicely sympathetic and attractive female characters.<br />The politics in THE BISHOP IN THE WEST WING are a little heavy. McGurn is a liberal democrat and Blackie (and presumably Greeley) is quite sympathetic to these views. Still, some of McGurn's ideas (like a congressional override of the Supreme Court which might be popular with some Democrats after what they see as the stealing of the 2000 election) are frightening to anyone who has concerns for civil rights or a fear that congress can get railroaded into anything. The idea that a politician could be elected Governor based on asking for higher income taxes seems stretched, but not impossible and certainly in keeping with a Priest who has taken a vow of poverty.<br />In some ways THE BISHOP IN THE WEST WING can be seen as a Clinton done right. The loving assistant is there, but she is age appropriate rather than a young intern. The President is conveniently single rather than married. I found the stained dress parallel a little much, but some readers may get a kick out of it.<br />All of Greeley's THE BISHOP novels are enjoyable and THE BISHOP IN THE WEST WING certainly will not disappoint fans of the series.me Court which might be popular with some Democrats after what they see as the stealing of the 2000 election) are frightening to anyone who has concerns for civil rights or a fear that congress can get railroaded into anything. The idea that a politician could be elected Governor based on asking for higher income taxes seems stretched, but not impossible and certainly in keeping with a Priest who has taken a vow of poverty. <br />In some ways THE BISHOP IN THE WEST WING can be seen as a Clinton done right. The loving assistant is there, but she is age appropriate rather than a young intern. The President is conveniently single rather than married. I found the stained dress parallel a little much, but some readers may get a kick out of it. <br />All of Greeley's THE BISHOP novels are enjoyable and THE BISHOP IN THE WEST WING certainly will not disappoint fans of the series.	2002-10-16
1376986:US	49115690	R1157LYCI5A154	0373169426	384373881	How to Marry A Hardison: Plain Jane's Plan (Harlequin American Romance, No 942)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Powerful emotions and Lennox's great writing	Dentist Allison Crane has been in love with way-cute Dr. Jeff Hardison forever, but he thinks they're just best friends. When Allison goes on a bike-riding binge and loses the extra pounds she's been carrying, she thinks maybe he'll notice now--except he doesn't. When Jeff comes up with the idea of pretending to be engaged to Allison so he can stay away from the hungry woman who's been chasing him, Allison doesn't know whether to accept, or slap him in the face. Surely a makeover, with the help of Jeff's sister-in-law Anne, will open his eyes???<br />Jeff Hardisson knows Allison--she's the girl next door, the neighborhood dentist, and a buddy. So why, all of a sudden, does he feel proprietary when other men at the convention they attend start paying her a lot of attention. Somehow, without his noticing, Allison turned into a babe. Jeff plays the field and has never let himself get tied down. When he looks at Allison, he wonders whether that strategy is really the way to go.<br />Talented author Kara Lennox has turned out another hot Hardison story. Lennox's trademark sly humor and smooth story-telling are complemented by the emotional distress that Allison goes through as she sees Jeff begin to respond to her just as she learns that she may have cancer. Fans of VIXEN IN DISGUISE will be happy to see Anne and Wade well integrated into this story. This series should be a breakout for Lennox's career.	2002-10-14
1379653:US	49115690	R1JM1JQQEHHT3D	0312287836	557039017	Thin Walls: A Smokey Dalton Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Powerful view of racism in America--and a compelling story	When Alice Foster asks Smokey Dalton to find who killed her husband, Smokey knows that the police will be little help. In Chicago in 1968, racial lines are drawn tight, and no one in power is especially concerned over a few black deaths. But Smokey recognizes the pattern--it's one that has happened before. Somewhere, a serial killer is systematically murdering blacks. And Smokey intends to find out who--and put a stop to it.<br />Through THIN WALLS, Smokey deals with racism, black gangs who offer 'protection' at a horrible price, and cops who either don't care, or who believe that they can lose everything they believe in if they buck the way things are done. A subplot with Smokey's white love interest adds a level of personal depth to the character--and provides continuity from earlier novels in the series.<br />Author Kris Nelscott delivers a riveting historical mystery. Nelscott makes America's racism come alive, yet offers a hint of promise that it can be overcome. The conflict between African-American cop Johnson and white cop Sinkovich adds both depth and authenticity to the novel. Smokey himself, with his concern for his 'son' Jimmy, drives the plot forward.<br />THIN WALLS grabbed me early and kept me turning the pages. Nelscott's writing is authentic and compelling, with just enough name-dropping of real characters to spice the story.<br />Highly Recommended.	2002-10-12
1381763:US	49115690	R237D45S4NMFCK	0892967641	419053838	Slow Dollar (Deborah Knott Mysteries)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Involving characters, family, and carnival detail. Fine	Judge Deborah Knott suspects something odd about the carnival that has come to her small North Carolina town, but she doesn't expect murder. When someone kills a young man associated with the carnival and stuffs his mouth full of quarters, the town shrugs--they weren't local. But Deborah learns of a local connection--and suspects that the death involves more than a simple fight among carnies.<br />Author Margaret Maron writes convincingly of the carnival life and even more convincingly about small-town North Carolina where family is key, where farming is still a way of life, and where single women and single men continue the eternal dance of attraction and fear. Deborah Knott is an engaging and compelling character. Her large family and their history together (both good and bad) gives her a depth that adds to her appeal.<br />Maron does a fine job delivering the clues in the midst of the plot. Careful readers will certainly guess the killer before Deborah does, but the characters and story are so interesting that I found myself so involved in the novel that I forgot to try to outguess the author. Maron's approachable style makes SLOW DOLLAR an enjoyable and fast read.	2002-10-10
1382426:US	49115690	R35NEIHJUR04V4	0446527742	903435239	The Mocking Program	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Intriguing near-future mystery: a nice character in Angel	THE MOCKING PROGRAM by Alan Dean Foster<br />ASPECT, Warner Books, August 2002<br />It's just another corpse--murdered, stripped of valuable organs and blood, and left to rot. Except Inspector Angel Cardenas suspects something more. The corpse is too well dressed for his neighborhood. When a deep scan reveals the impossible--multiple identities, Cardenas sets off on a hunt for a murderer who has amassed a criminal empire in a near-future North America. As assassins close in on the wife and daughter of a gangster leader, Cardenas wrestles with keeping them alive--and to get a grip on why anyone would want to kill them so desperately.<br />Classic S.F. author Alan Dean Foster delivers a taunt near-future mystery. The politics, economics, slang, and science in THE MOCKING PROGRAM are logical extensions from today's world grounding the novel and making it approachable. Cardenas is both sympathetic and heroic, his empathic abilities adding rather than detracting from his essential humanity.<br />Foster's writing engages the reader, keeps the pages turning, and asks questions about the nature of life and probes the nature of the relationship between man and machine.<br />Very nice.	2002-10-09
1387269:US	49115690	R2J4OQM1OEYV1G	078671008X	281239572	The Pale Companion: A Shakespearean Murder Mystery	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Exciting and complicated historical mystery	Nick Revill and the acting company to which he belongs have left London to play for a nobleman's wedding. As the wedding is to occur at midsummer, Shakespeare's play A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM is planned. Before he even reach the manor, however, Nick is attacked at an amateur play, haunted by a pale ghost-like being, and tended to by a beautiful girl. The reluctant looking groom tells Nick that there is more to the marriage than pure bliss--but even these premonitions don't prepare him for murder.<br />With the occasional assistance of Justice of the Peace Adam Fielding, Nick tries to get to the bottom of the death of a strange wild man found hung, an apparent suicide. The dead man had hinted at a secret when he'd met Nick--and Nick fears that the secret may be buried with him. What he doesn't expect is that the wild man's death will be the first of several--and that he will be thrust in the midst of a mystery that may prove fatal to himself.<br />Author Philip Gooden writes convincingly of the stage during Shakespeare's day as English theater is still emerging from its earlier, more primative roots. Nick is convincing as a young man, filled with hormones, proud of what he has accomplished as an actor, and yet unwilling to accept the death of even a crazed man without questioning it. The mystery itself is enjoyable with plenty of twists and turns, false trails, and hidden motives. Gooden leaves a few red herrings unexposed and complicates matters a bit at the end, but delivers a fine story.	2002-10-05
1387955:US	49115690	R1F3F1MCQHLMSL	075640083X	851288995	Sorcery Rising:: Book One of Fool's Gold	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good worldbuilding but entire book is setup	The magic has been gone, captured and withheld in the ice fortress that is sanctuary, but now it beings to stir again. With all the world at the 'gather,' a huge trading fair and festival, the magic begins to exert itself--a love charm works, a spell to increase a girl's bust size overcompensates, and an angry cat gradually spits out the great spells of power. At the festival, Katla Aransen accidentally violates a sacred mountain and must hide from the brutal and anti-woman Istrians. Although her own people are ancient enemies of the Istrian Empire, the Empire is too powerful to challenge, even for a young woman's life. Around Katla, her family swirls. Her father becomes caught up in a compulsion to explore the frozen north--looking for magical gold and for the place called sanctuary.<br />Virelai had been a captive and apprentice to the great master for decades--now, thanks to a sleeping potion, he is free. But he knows that his freedom will be fleeting, unless the master is killed in his long sleep. And with the magic stirring, the need to do something becomes increasingly urgent. When he hooks up with an Istrian nobleman, Virelai thinks that his situation will improve--but he finds that he is once again a tool in the hands of others--and that his new master is every bit as cruel and far more violent than his own.<br />With magic running wild, and with the ancient emnity between the Istrian (think Ottoman) and Eyra (think Viking) violence is barely contained at the best of times. When the Eyra King Ravn is entranced by the beautiful Rosa Eldi, his command over his own forces wanes. Open warfare breaks out and the great fair is disrupted. All forces retreat to their strongholds, lick their wounds, and plot the next steps in the battle between kingdoms--little reckoning on the true war--that of magic--that lies beneath the surface.<br />In SORCERY RISING, author Jude Fisher delivers some powerful worldbuilding. The return of magic theme, the various peoples who populate this fantasy world, and the mythologies that sustain and drive them are all powerful and intriguing. Too much of this novel, however, is just that--world building and stage setting. With no really admirable characters (Katla comes closest, but she is too careless of others' safety to be really sympathetic), SORCERY RISING feels like stage-setting for the series. Fisher's writing and world-building is almost strong enough to disguise the fact that nothing really happens in this novel. I'm looking forward to the next in the series, but with the smallest bit of a feeling that I ate a meal only to discover that it disappeared before it really sunk in.opulate this fantasy world, and the mythologies that sustain and drive them are all powerful and intriguing. Too much of this novel, however, is just that--world building and stage setting. With no really admirable characters (Katla comes closest, but she is too careless of others' safety to be really sympathetic), SORCERY RISING feels like stage-setting for the series. Fisher's writing and world-building is almost strong enough to disguise the fact that nothing really happens in this novel. I'm looking forward to the next in the series, but with the smallest bit of a feeling that I ate a meal only to discover that it disappeared before it really sunk in.	2002-10-04
1392680:US	49115690	R316HZ71HB76J5	0786710268	981416978	a.k.a. Sheila Doyle: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gritty 'caper' story. Sheila comes into her own	While celebrating her divorce, Sheila Doyle falls for Bobby Roberts, a male stripper who changes her life. With his instructions, she transforms herself from an 40-something ex-actress into a hard-bodied, sexy, blonde player. Together Sheila, Bobby, and minor Jewish gangster Sol Billstein smuggle money, run guns, and look for the illegal angle to make a few bucks. With the added intelligence that Sheila brings to the group, their potential appears unlimited.<br />Things turn rough when the Bobby and Sheila anger a Cuban exile. What had been a game becomes a death-defying struggle for survival.<br />Author Pat Jordan's smooth prose convincingly portrays the biggoted and appearance-dominated world of the underworld in Florida. Sheila's transformation, and her gradual ascendency toward dominance in the three-person team, is both interesting and unexpected.<br />Although many readers will be offended by the language that Jordan puts into his characters dialogue (slurs of racial and sexual orientation), to me this usage feels authentic rather than forced. A few editing glitches distract somewhat, and Sol's drug subplot toward the end of the novel adds little to the theme and detracts from the immediacy of the message.<br />Recommended for fans of 'caper' fiction.	2002-09-30
1393392:US	49115690	R1S6OMEFCYT2WS	0312283059	519984734	Blood Lies: A Dido Hoare Mystery (Dido Hoare Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable and very English	When her friend Lizzy calls for her help, Dido Hoare drops her old book business and heads for the English countryside. Lizzy's brother-in-law is coming home from years served in prison--for killing a woman he mistook for a thief. Worse, Lizzy's father-in-law is gradually losing his memory--and his sanity. With a precious first edition of PETER RABBIT somewhere in the picture, Dido decides to investigate and find out the truth.<br />Although the English village appears peaceful and bucollic, Dido soon learns that crime is not limited to big cities. Stories of prostitution and drug dealing abound. When a long-dead skeleton turns up, Dido decides that two bodies is a little much for just one homocide. Someone has been lying--but Dido can't think of a single motive to justify murder. Even help from the town gossip and from Dido's father doesn't seem able to break through the wall of lies and silence.<br />Author Marianne MacDonald delivers an enjoyable and properly English tale of decaying families and secrets. Dido balances her detecting with raising her young son and worrying about her bookshop--and becomes more human with every page. BLOOD LIES makes for an enjoyable and page-turning mystery.	2002-09-29
1394427:US	49115690	R1DV0CVSYFPJ31	0446528625	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book 1	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Clunky writing mars fascinating universe	Humanity has reached the stars--not through their own efforts, but largely through the gift of an alien race. The ancient Ildiran Empire has dominated the stars alone for thousands of years. They have willingly shared their technology with the humans, but are now increasingly concerned about the human urge to expand, and the risks that humans are willing to take. When the humans take one risk too many, creating a new star out of a gas giant, both humans and Ildirans must pay the price. The gas giants are inhabited--and don't take kindly to the genocide of their people.<br />Author Kevin J. Anderson delivers an impressive display of world-building. The divisions of humans into mercantile Hanse, mystic Theroc, and entrepreneurial Roamers, the all-knowing Priest-King of the Ildiran, and the enigmatic robots of long-extinct Klikiss make for a fascinating background. Unfortunately, Anderson's clunky writing, constant repetition, and the illogical actions of many of his characters mar an otherwise interesting story.<br />The humans have an ultimate weapon at their fingertips--the tool that created a star from a planet that set off the war in the first place, yet neither they, nor the inhabitants of the gas giants seem to recognize the power that this gives them--or the danger that it offers to the gas dwellers. With careful editing, this cuold have been a fine novel. Perhaps Anderson will deliver in the sequel.	2002-09-28
1397571:US	49115690	R3A60BD4TM7PWM	0765303035	865742455	The Sky So Big and Black (Meme Wars)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Compelling story-telling and world building. Excellent	With earth controlled by the One True meme (an engineered computer virus that infects and controls human minds), Mars and the planets struggle to survive. Distance prevents a direct takeover, but Mars defense forces must constantly resist earth-sent attacks. Meanwhile, the continuing terraforming of Mars continues. Rounders like Teri Murray search for water, carbon dioxide, and methane hidden beneath Mars's surface in the battle to make Mars habitable without all the equipment that keeps Teri alive.<br />THE SKY SO BIG AND BLACK follows Teri and her father during the last days before 'Sunburst' as they discover a methane dome so large that it makes them rich, then deal with teen angst about Teri's fiance, and the complexities of a Rounder gather. The story is told largely in Teri's words as she details her recent history to a police psychologist.<br />Although this method of narration normally distances the reader from the story, author John Barnes makes Teri's story completely compelling. Like Heinlein at his strongest, Barnes develops a complete and logical society, language, and way of life. As Teri 'roos' her way across Mars, the reader is drawn into the story, the endangered planet, and the people who are battling to make it habitable--and to keep it free of Earth's disease.<br />In itself, the concept of a computer-style virus that attacks the human mind is interesting but not the center of this story. Rather, it is Barnes's powerful writing, his world/society-building, and his believable characters that make THE SKY SO BIG AND BLACK completely compelling.	2002-09-25
1400251:US	49115690	R29UV4U3V2J78D	0743435249	147993878	Forward the Mage (Joe's World)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Good mix of politics, humor, and a fascinating world	When a powerful wizzard learns, to his surprise, that he has enemies, he accidentally destroys a kingdom and sets off in search of the one woman who can tell him who his enemies are. His voyage becomes a quest tied up in Ozar plans for world conquest, the world's greatest strangler, and God's eternal battle to rid himself of the Joe heresy forever. In a parallel adventure, an artist joins a revolutionary in a journey to love and the perfect anarchist state. Yet, even this perfect state is threatened by the power of the Ozar rap-sheet, and the wizard seems intent on protecting the power of the powerful rather than on their overthrow.<br />Set in the same universe as Flint's THE PHILSOSOPHICAL STRANGLER, FORWARD THE MAGE combines adventure with humor. The wizard Zulkeh is as unlikely a hero as can be imagined with a combination of pedantic pseudo-scholarly language and abusive behavior. In contrast, the likely hero, artist and mercenary Benvenuti, never really gets into the story, providing a bit of romantic diversion. Still, authors Eric Flint and Richard Roach make it work. MAGE occasionally tries too hard, but often delivers a Terry Pratchet-like belly laugh.<br />Flint and Roach slide a bit of the revolution into their novel, and offer some insights into basic liberties that will create a few grimaces from conservative readers, but they do so with good spirit. Clearly FORWARD THE MAGE has some political messages to deliver, but Flint and Roach manage to deliver them in the context of an amusing adventure.	2002-09-23
1403045:US	49115690	RG9FT9JNEIJSB	0312271212	747433278	A Mist of Prophecies:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful mix of history and mystery. Don't miss it.	With Caesar and Pompey facing one another in Greece, Rome itself is left to be governed by Caesar's lieutenants. Poverty, debt, decades of civil war, and decades of swiftly changing alliances have unsettled Rome, but also made it seem to be a perfect target for men unscrupulous enough to seize a time when the armies are largely away from Italy, and when the mob can become king. Gordianus, the Finder, has fallen on hard times. Like many others, he has had to borrow and now finds himself deep in debt. Yet, his new friendship and passion with the strange seeress, Cassandra, sustains him while the rest of his life, and his city, fail around him. When Cassandra is poisoned and dies in his arms, Gordianus sets out to find the killer even though he knows that the murderer is likely to be one of the seven powerful women who attend Cassandra's funeral--women far beyond his power to damage.<br />Gordianus's investigation, interspersed with flashbacks of his growing relationship with Cassandra, takes him into the heart of conspiracy and the soul of the ancient Roman Republic which was then failing around him. His trips to the forum to meet with the 'chin-waggers,' the sight of lictors, axes bared in the City itself, and into the slave-ridden households of ambitious women, scheming while their husbands and lovers battle for control ring true.<br />Author Steven Saylor powerfully conveys both the strange days of the Roman Republic's death, and the more humble striving of one man to seek the truth about the brutal murder of a woman who acted as a beggar, but perhaps was also a blackmailer, a spy, or a madwoman. In Saylor's work, and in the small doings of a common citizen, Rome becomes far more real than in many of the histories of battles and great men.<br />A MIST OF PROPHECIES continues Saylor's excellent ROMA SUB ROSA series and left me looking forward to the next novel--of Cleopatra and Egypt in the last days of the Ptolemies.	2002-09-20
1403543:US	49115690	R1J2OD01CUOUOQ	0765300176	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Card's strong writing makes this compelling	With Ender gone on a colony ship, the survivors of the battle school have returned to their native countries--and plunged the world into war. Peter Wiggins, the Hegemon and Ender's brother, wages a small-scale battle against the Chinese who have swallowed India and IndoChina and are now preparing for their next conquest. When he decides to rescue the brilliant murderer, Achilles, from the Chinese, though, Peter throws his own forces into confusion. Bean, the one child/man who most closely resembles Ender, together with his friend Petra, flee from both Peter and Achilles--they of all people know that Achilles hates most those who rescue him.<br />While Bean and Petra flee through Europe and the middle east, their feelings for one another, together with their hormonal attraction, escalate. Bean fears to bring into the world anyone cursed with the strange mutation that gives him both his genius and the continued growth that will kill him before thirty, yet even he cannot resist the power of a determined woman. And Petra is fully determined to marry Bean and bear his children, no matter what the cost to herself.<br />Although the Chinese seem dominant, with Europe and America cowed and Russia unwilling to rekindle the ancient rivalry, battle school graduates work to begin a resistance movement within India, and hope to strike back into China itself. Yet, with the Hegemon distracted and perhaps destroyed by Achilles, can the world find a force behind which oppostion can combine?<br />Orson Scott Card is one of best Science Fiction writers ever, and SHADOW PUPPETS demonstrates the power of his writing. Although Bean's story is clearly secondary to the upcoming global battle, I was still compelled through the narative, unable to put the book down until I'd finished every page. The romance between Bean and Petra felt real, and Peter the Hegemon's gradual maturing was certainly gratifying.<br />Fans of the post-Ender series will definitely want to read this one. China finally faces a unified opposition that threatens to give it a run for the money. Yet Card also plants the seeds for future trouble. Without an external enemy to unite around, can Earth avoid destroying itself in pointless war?nally faces a unified opposition that threatens to give it a run for the money. Yet Card also plants the seeds for future trouble. Without an external enemy to unite around, can Earth avoid destroying itself in pointless war?	2002-09-20
1405601:US	49115690	R25ASQ9W19TDRE	0312285663	247949842	Killing Time: A Mystery (Natalie Price Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good prison analysis, character irrational	When prison superintendent Natalie Price's best friend is murdered, all the evidence points to one of the prisoners. Maggie had been teaching the prisoner and encouraging him. Yet Natalie doesn't want to believe that Dean could be a brutal killer--it would make her look like an idiot for allowing him extra priviliges, and strengthen the hand of those who oppose the release program she has made her career. Together with detective Leo Coscarelli, Natalie begins to investigate--and to uncover secrets she wishes she'd never learned. Maggie had been an unsatiable lover, and seems to have had a relationship with every man Natalie knows--all of whom become suspects. And the original case against Dean seems increasingly questionable. Could they be hunting an innocent man?<br />Author Elise Title writes convincingly about the horrors of the prison system and its dehumanizing effect on its wards (and on its guards). I found her characters, however, less convincing. Natalie seems to go out of her way to put herself in danger. Even when she has no good reason to do so, she doesn't think of asking for backup. Although she soon suspects her deputy, Jack, she takes his word for a critical piece of evidence without checking--and lying to the detective in charge about where the evidence came from. Although Natalie accuses her estranged husband of thinking only of himself, the accusation could have been made against her. Such an unsympathetic protagonist makes KILLING TIME difficult to really enjoy. As Natalie throws herself into danger, it's too tempting to hope that maybe this time, she'll get what she deserves.	2002-09-18
1408663:US	49115690	R2EQS64UKWHPC9	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Disfunctional and funny. It'll stick with you	Davy Dempsey conned his million dollars fair and square--so when his financial advisor cheats him out of it, Davy decides to get it back. When he meets a woman in the closet of his victim's home, he doesn't know if it's fate or bad luck, but Davy finds himself caught up in the world of art fraudery, faked orgasms, and women who can't decide which person they really are. It's confusing for Davy, but then, he's a con man. He's sure a little thing like love will never get in his way. Besides, he likes blondes.<br />Matilda (Tilda) Goodnight will do anything to protect her family and the art gallery that preserves her family's century-old dedication to art. If that means stealing a painting her niece accidentally sold, she's willing to make the sacrifice. When she finds herself in a closet with a strange burgular, kissing him seems the thing to do. But stealing one forged painting isn't enough. Soon she and Davy are caught up in an attempt to con paintings from everyone who ever bought a Scarlet Hodge painting--because Scarlet was a fraud too. And Matilda is knows that if she's caught, her family will suffer.<br />The relationship between a con-man and an art forger is bound to have its difficulties. What Davy and Tilda soon learn is that they cannot really let go, can't really achieve the great sex they want, until they can be honest with one another. But honesty is hardly the easiest thing for someone from either of their backgrounds. Until they find their way to trust, though, both Davy and Tilda will merely be FAKING IT.<br />After a fairly flat start, author Jennifer Crusie turns up the heat and delivers a sexy, funny, and emotionally rewarding novel. Davy is a charming con-man who means to be good but whose whole life was based on knowing who was the mark. The Goodnight family is a wonderfully disfunctional mess.<br />FAKING IT has moments of laugh-out-loud humor, some charming insights into humanity, and a set of characters that will stick with you and seem far more real than some of your co-workers. Give FAKING IT a chance and stick with it through the first hundred pages--it'll reward you and that's no fake.ar more real than some of your co-workers. Give FAKING IT a chance and stick with it through the first hundred pages--it'll reward you and that's no fake.	2002-09-15
1408814:US	49115690	RQ3T6QEVT9R9U	0312285019	272203908	The Bawdy Basket: An Elizabethan Theater Mystery Featuring Nicholas Bracewell (Elizabethan Theater Mysteries)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent historical feel--Elizabethan theater	The Westfield's Men Players are at the top of their form and should be enjoying their success. But, when one of the player's father is falsely convicted of murder and their author falls in love with a woman who wishes to support his art far from the theater, the company is rocked. Unless 'book-holder' Nicholas Bracewell can sort things out, the company may be destroyed. When a witness to the father's innocence (a prostitute or 'bawdy basket') is found, things begin to look up--until the woman too is murdered. Now Nicholas and his friends have to worry about their own survival as well as the survival of their company.<br />Set in the Elizabethan theater scene, THE BAWDY BASKET gives a convincing view of the sights and smells of the time when theater reached its greatest peak. The ever-competent Nicholas is a solid figure in the midst of the emotional and not always rational actors, each fighting for their moment in the public acclaim.<br />Author Edward Marston relies a bit too heavily on coincidence and on on-the-nose dialogue to overexplain motivations, but nevertheless delivers a highly enjoyable mystery.	2002-09-14
1410045:US	49115690	R1WAN0ZQKF5W84	0765301164	29730777	A Scattering of Jades	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powerful novel of a history that is almost ours	Aaron Burr is dead and the memory of his aborted attempt to create an empire in the west is largely faded, yet some remember. Riley Steen knows that Burr's hopes were based on Aztec mythology, on an ancient god whose mystic calendar is now coming due. With skill and planning, Steen intends to create what Burr failed at--and is willing to pay any price to make it happen. Printer Archie Prescott knows that his daughter is dead, that the crazy girl who calls him 'da' cannot be Jane. Yet he involves himself with a strange mezo-American mummy that comes to life in New York. Torn by images of destruction, and followed by Steen's killers, Archie heads from New York, across 19th century America, to the Mammoth caves of Kentucky where the magic of the great cycle is taking place and where a new world may be created. Slave Stephen Bishop yearns for a freedom that will never be given him. The emerging god offers him freedom for himself and his children, but only in return for a high price. Only Stephen knows the caves well enough to prevent the magic--or to protect the god.<br />Author Alexander C. Irvine creates a powerful alternate history where magic works unseen to most, but remains powerful. Irvine's images of the world of the dead, where the dead's belief in the gods they created continue to sustain the gods' powers is strong and compelling. Irvine's world could be our own, yet zombies walk and gods carve their way into men's hearts. The skillful use of the somewhat obscure history of Aaron Burr's attempted empire (since history was written by Burr's enemies, we may never know his real motivations and goals), gives A SCATTERING OF JADES a verisimilitude that definitely adds to the reader's enjoyment	2002-09-13
1410054:US	49115690	R3DEHDNTS721OK	0758201583	964110623	This Pen For Hire: A Jaine Austen Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cute tale of love letters, dating, and murder in LA	A love letter is a bit of a strange request, but Jaine Austen writes for hire so when Howard Murdoch asks for her help getting a date for Valentine's day and has his heart set on his beautiful aerobics instructor, Jaine writes the letter. That would have been the end of it, except Howard actually gets the date--only to find Stacy Lawrence bludgened to death with a thigh master. Now Howard is accused of murder and Jaine decides she's got to set things right. One thing she knows for sure--if Howard can't even ask Stacy for a date on his own, he certainly didn't kill her.<br />Unfortunately, there were plenty of people who would have killed Stacy. Like many beautiful women in Los Angeles, Stacy was ambitious and didn't care who got in her way. She wasn't past blackmailing her lovers, stealing men from her friends, or using her influence to get the best apartment in the complex. Jaine finds plenty of men and women who are perfectly happy to have Stacy dead. But that doesn't mean they killed her. As Jaine starts to get threats to her own safety, she realizes that she'll have to find the real killer or she may end up the next victim.<br />Author Laura Levine writes with a chatty and humorous style. Jaine is constantly losing the battle of will-power and indulging in the extra cheese on her buritto while simultaneously bemoning the size of her thighs. Levine's description of the competitive world of Los Angeles dating rings true, and a heroine who solves mysteries between writing toilet ads definitely has appeal.	2002-09-13
1412677:US	49115690	RHLJ8OVLTYKPC	0066213444	852525868	Beyond Suspicion (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Powerfully written but illogical chararacters mar effect	Lawyer Jack Swytek wins a big case for a former girlfriend, Jessie Merrill. The woman had been diagnosed with Lou Gerig's disease and sold her life insurance, only to discover that she suffered from lead poisoning. Only after the trial does Jack realize that he might have been helping to perpetuate a fraud. When Jessie is found dead in Jack's bathtub, Jack suspects murder--and so does the district attorney. The only difference is, the district attorney's favorite for the deed is Jack.<br />Author James Grippando keeps the pages turning with a hard charging style and only a bare look into the characters of the actors in his novel. Jack has a wealth of suspects--the doctor whom Jack believes is implicated in the fraud, the investors who gave Jessie her million and a half dollars, and his best friend who would do anything to help Jack. But unless Jack can come up with evidence, he's the one likely to fry.<br />The first half of this novel is completely enjoyable and entertaining. As the mystery progresses, however, too many characters behave in ways that are unconvincing, or stupid. The evil investors (controlled by the Russian mafia) are certainly evil, but would they really be as successful as they are if they could act so irrationally? Jack's friend sets off on bizarre missions that put both himself and Jack in danger without any perceivable goal other than the books requirement that Jack and the friend be placed in danger. Finally, the big shoot-out was anticlimactic. The ending and the gradual revealing to the true killer left me more exasperated than delighted.<br />I'm going to keep my eyes open for more Grippando. The man can certainly write--unfortunately, from my perspective, BEYOND SUSPICION doesn't quite deliver on Grippando's promise.	2002-09-11
1415942:US	49115690	R3NWLMP2B55PO7	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Compelling characters in 1964 Watts--excellent	Easy Rawlins has a real job now, but he still helps his friends, and when his friend John calls on him, Easy means to come through. John's step-son Brawly has vanished and may be running with the wrong crowd. John asks for Easy's help tracking down the young man and making sure that he's safe. But for an African-American in Los Angeles in 1964, little is safe. Revolution is in the air and Brawly is caught up in the movement. Easy suspects that there is more to this particular movement than schools and free lunches--especially when he stumbles over the body of Brawly's father. From then on, Easy has to manage to discover the truth while keeping himself alive.<br />Author Walter Mosley combines a compelling view of black society in Watts and America with an outstandingly well drawn and sympathetic character in Easy Rawlins. Rawlin's world view is simultaneously cynical about the big picture and filled with hope for the small but important things of life. Mosley paints pictures with language, opening the reader's eyes to an understanding that goes beyond simple matters of black and white into real insights into what it means to be human in America.<br />BAD BOY BRAWLY BROWN is another outstanding work by Mosley. Fans of the series will find that it delivers everything they expect. Those new to Mosley or to Easy Rawlins will find it easy to start here--and will want to look for the earlier novels in the series as well. Well done.	2002-09-08
1416901:US	49115690	R29UV4KFBPPGXJ	0312280904	675400891	Best Murder of the Year: A Rick Domino Mystery (Rick Domino Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very nice mystery--but ending is a minor let-down	When the beautiful winner of the best actress Oscar is murdered outside the theater, all the evidence points to Rick Domino, gay movie gossip columnist. After all, Tara Perez just stole Rick's boyfriend, his fingerprints are on the gun whose bullets are inside Tara, and he was found standing over the body. The only problem is, Rick knows he didn't do it. Now he has one week to find out who did--and find a way to keep himself alive while he does it. Fortunately, one of the arresting cops decides to take some time off to help Rick look--or is he simply trying to get more evidence for the State? Rick sets off to investigate Hollywood and finds that there were plenty of other people with motive and opportunity to kill Tara. She cheated, lied, and slept her way to the top, and Hollywood doesn't forget. But motive isn't enough when the prosecution has all the physical evidence it needs to convict Rick.<br />Author Jon P. Bloch writes convincingly of a Hollywood where sexual roles are blurred by secrets and fear of being 'outed' can cause almost any crime. Rick manages to meet the standard stereotypes but in a believable and sympathetic way.<br />Although Rick's investigations are entertaining and believable, the wrapup to BEST MURDER OF THE YEAR was not. Frequent mystery readers might guess the killer's identity, but Bloch didn't really deliver the clues to give us a sense of satisfaction in figuring it out. The resolution of the sexual tension between the gay Rick and his straight cop-sidekick also seemed a little forced--less clever than the rest of the novel led me to hope for.<br />Overall, BEST MURDER OF THE YEAR is enjoyable reading--but maybe not the best mystery of the year.	2002-09-07
1417179:US	49115690	R101KON2SLJJV5	0345435729	798168467	Morgawr (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Best book in series--young characters mature	The crew of the Jerle Shannara has been whittled down by the Isle Witch, by ancient magic, and by time; Walker Boh, the last Druid, lies mortally wounded and his quest--the books of ancient magic--is completely lost. All that remains is for the remnants of teh Jerle Shannara crew to pull together and return to the Four Lands with the Elf Stones and little else to show for their journey. With the Isle Witch sunk into a catatonic trance, this shouldn't be too difficult--except a new enemy, one even more powerful than the Witch herself, decides to intervene. Morgawr, the Witch's mentor, has decided that the Witch's treachery must be punished and that he must have the books of magic for himself. With a huge fleet of airships and his own magical powers, Morgawr seems unstoppable. Especially since the most experienced and powerful of the Jerle Shannara's crew are now dead.<br />Somehow, highlanders Bek Ohmsford and Quentin Leah, rovers Redden Alt Mer and Rue Meridian, and the elf prince Ahren Elessedil--all in all, the youngest and least experienced of the crew--must not only survive a six month journey home, they must do so in the face of terrible magical opposition--all the while carrying the catatonic Witch with them.<br />Author Terry Brooks pulls out the stops to deliver a compelling close to his VOYAGE OF THE JERLE SHANNARA trilogy. Characters that were young annoyances in the earlier novels now come to their own, discovering depths of strength and emotional wholeness within themselves now that they can no longer lean on the druid's power. Bek's determination to save his sister no matter how unlikely this seems gives him a heroic cast. In contrast, Alt Mer's reaction to the Graak humanizes a man who seemed the fearless heroic barbarian until that moment. The Witch's self-torture adds a realistic poignancy for readers who have seen exactly how amoral she could be.<br />MORGAWR can best be read in conjunction with the VOYAGE series as it relies heavily on character growth from levels set in the earlier novels. Fantasy fans will find this series well worth the reading.growth from levels set in the earlier novels. Fantasy fans will find this series well worth the reading.	2002-09-06
1419406:US	49115690	RXB9O80JXXYQ6	0786709952	791581277	The Godless Man: A Mystery of Alexander the Great	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Alexander, Great Mystery--nice	After his great victory at Granicus, Alexander rests at Ephesus, a large Greek city of Asia Minor. Yet, although he has achieved victory in a battle, Persia remains strong and its fortress city of Miletus seems impregnable--and essential to Alexander's hopes for continued conquest. Worse, Ephesus, like many Greek cities, is torn between parties who use every opportunity to make war on one another. Persia's spymaster is using this civil war to keep Ephesus in turmoil, and to threaten Alexander's word, his life, and his hopes for the future.<br />Alexander turns to his physician, Telamon, to discover the true explanation of a classic closed door mystery--the murder of a group of Oligachs within the sealed walls of the Temple of Hercules--after Alexander had given his word that they would be safe. The Persians attempt to destroy the myth of Alexander before they kill the man, and Telamon resolves to find the true spies within the city. With a little help from his beautiful Celtic assistant, Cassandra, and less help from Alexander's spymaster, Aristander, but with a lot of the logic he gained from studying under Aristotle, Telamon peels away at the veils of secrecy that pervade so much of Ephesus.<br />Author Paul Doherty writes convincingly and compellingly of Alexander's conquest. Badly outnumbered, deep in the enemies territory, Alexander has enough problems from the Persians, yet his Greek 'allies' can be even more dangerous. Doherty's Alexander is powerfully, yet humanly drawn--with all of the arrogance you'd expect in a man who intends to conquer the world, yet with the keen intelligence of the man who, in all history, came closest to doing just that. Telamon, too, is a believable, yet admirable character. The slowly evolving relationship between Telamon and Cassandra adds just a hint of spice to a well-served mystery.	2002-09-04
1419653:US	49115690	R775FH0R9BZUZ	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Strong worldbuilding overcomes flawed plot--compelling	It seemed like a straightforward enough plan. To flee a criminal/magical investigation in New Crobuzon, Bellis Coldwine takes a job as a translator on a ship destined toward the colony continent. In a few years, when the heat dies down, she'll return and get on with her life. Bellis doesn't count on being captured by a floating pirate city--Armada. But being on Armada, cut off from her own land, is not the worst of Bellis's problems. The rulers of Armada have set themselves a mission--to trap a huge underwater creature large enough to pull the entire city--and to explore the torn parts of the world--where probabilities and possibilities can be mined, tuned, and used.<br />Second only to the two lovers who rule most of Armada, Uther Doul dominates the pirate city and the entire novel. Doul has trained himself as a martial artist, but is armed with a sword that he calls a possibility blade--it is simultaneously capable of exploring all of the possibilities open to a sword, and killing with each of these possibilities. Yet Doul's own motivations remain unclear, unknowable. Between Doul and New Crobuzon spy Simon Fench, Bellis is manipulated, fooled into actions she never would have taken on her own, and nearly destroyed. Yet Bellis continus to strive for her hopeless eventual return to New Crobuzon.<br />Author China Meiville excells at world building. The magical system, the rich history of this world, and the city of Armada itself dominate the story and keep the reader involved, anxious for more. Meiville's writing style is strong, descriptive and intellectual. Although the plot itself is flawed--we never really understand the basic motivations that drive Doul, the critical actor in the entire novel--I found myself nevertheless entranced by the novel.	2002-09-04
1422755:US	49115690	R24BRE1ERTZN0X	038081742X	987828062	To Marry an Heiress (Daughters of Fortune)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Satisfying and emotionally rich	Devon, Lord Huntingdon can see no other way to escape poverty and disgrace than to marry an heiress. A rich American heiress would bring enough money into the marriage to let him pay off his debts, restore his estate to its traditional elegance, and most importantly, to keep up appearances. To Devon, the social norms are all-important, aristocracy is real and must set an example, and hard work is to be avoided or, if not, at least hidden. Georgina Pierce grew up in Texas during the hard years of the American Civil War and reconstruction. She knows and values work--and men who know how to work. Still, Devon seems a good sort and Georgina desperately wants children to call her own. Her father's money can buy her a husband so why should that be so terrible?<br />Devon is soon surprised to find how much he enjoys spending time with Georgina. She is unlike any other woman he knows--and certainly unlike his deceased wife, who had lived for frivolity and spending money that Devon could not provide her. Still, when the marriage 'deal' turns sour on him, Devon feels betrayed and used. Only by truly examining the beliefs that form the basis of his whole life--and that were drilled into him by the example of his first wife, can Devon achieve true happiness and love. Yet, when a relationship is based on mercenary goals, can love and happiness really be expected?<br />Author Lorraine Heath creates two wonderful characters in Devon and Georgina. Georgina represents the best of Texas--brash, unconcerned with tradition, unafraid to work, and compassionate with anyone in need. Devon is a straight-laced Englishman on the surface, yet Georgina holds the key to unlock the emotions that lie, locked by tradition and culture, beneath his proper exterior. With its powerful writing and compelling emotional character growth, TO MARRY AN HEIRESS is an wonderful read.	2002-09-01
1425114:US	49115690	R174CQOHW6Y8B1	0312284713	157186775	Double Exposure (First Daughter Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Light but entertaining	Eve Cooper is trying to settle into the white house, weeks after her father wins the presidency, when she discovers a dead body in the rose garden. It appears to be a straightforward heart attack, but a torn photograph showing a couple making love in the white house Lincoln Bedroom raises suspicions that something more sinister may lie behind it. With the support of her father, and the help of a photographer friend, Eve begins to investigate. But the investigation becomes critical when the photograph is revealed to be related to blackmail and a plot to destroy the credibility of the new President.<br />Authors Susan Ford (daughter of former President Gerald Ford) and Laura Hayden combine to deliver a well written adventure that uses the white house as a key plot device rather than a backdrop. Eve is convincing as a young (mid-twenties) woman who has given up her life to help her father, is mystified on how to deal with the Secret Service protection she doesn't want, yet cannot avoid, and is anxious to carve out some area where she can contribute--and possibly escape the terminal confinement of the mansion.<br />DOUBLE EXPOSURE won't open your eyes or cause you to lose sleep at night, but it will keep you turning the pages, with occasional laughs and insights into people and especially people who happen to be the family of the President of the United States.	2002-08-30
1430318:US	49115690	R1L4E53JYF2G30	0312205481	803900619	A Fine and Bitter Snow: A Kate Shugak Novel (Kate Shugak Mysteries)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Good feel of Alaska bush	When bureaucrats try to force park ranger Dan O'Brian into early retirement, Kate Shugak springs into action, chatting up the locals with political influence to save Dan's job. It doesn't help, though, when Dan is found crouched over a recently murdered body. Kate is certain that Dan is innocent, but she isn't convinced that the crazy Viet Nam vet turned up as an alternate suspect was the killer either. Still, what possible motive could anyone have for killing an aging World War II WASP? Kate insists on looking--alongside too-sexy cop Jim Chopin.<br />Since the death of her lover, Kate has been trying to get her personal life under control. She isn't sure of much, but she is certain that she doesn't want to be the next notch on Jim's belt. Still, Jim seems anxious to allow Kate to tag along as he investigates increasingly unlikely suspects. Kate is sure they haven't found the killer--but she's also certain that everyone has secrets. And, as Jim points out, no secrets can survive a murder investigation.<br />Author Dana Stabenow writes convincingly of the Alaska wilds--where 'up the road' means a 70 mile haul and where the only way to stay in touch is by plane. When the close-knit community is shattered by murder, the residents want to pull together and are all to anxious to deny the possibility that the murder might be one of them. Kate's angst over her lost lover adds emotional depth to her character as does her long history with the victim.<br />A FINE AND BITTER SNOW is enjoyable reading, but has a few holes. I would have liked to see a little more motivation for Jim to invite Kate along on the investigation--surely sexual desire wouldn't be enough to allow him to drag her along in that way. Also, although fans of the series may know, readers of A FINE AND BITTER SNOW have no idea what Kate does for a living or how she manages to find so much free time to spend rescuing friends and investigating murder. I would have appreciated a bit more of her motivation--and some concept that her life extends beyond chosing boyfriends and chasing killers.d some concept that her life extends beyond chosing boyfriends and chasing killers.	2002-08-25
1430615:US	49115690	R1A304J5027YSC	0007122934	390106233	Murder by Suicide (Ellie Quicke Mystery Series #2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Charming English cozy	When the organist in Ellie Quicke's church starts getting threatening notes, Ellie wants to do something. Before she can get to the bottom of the problem, however, the organist commits suicide. Then the notes start to target Ellie. Someone knows her secrets, her fears, and seems to hate her with an aversion that goes beyond sanity. Ellie needs to find the answers before she, and her new cat, become the next victim.<br />Ellie's investigations are hampered by a daughter who thinks that the world owes her something, multiple beaux who want to take the place of Ellie's recently departed husband, and an aging aunt who expects Ellie to drop everything and take care of her problems. Still, with the help of friends and a handyman who doesn't know much about gardening but wants to work, Ellie begins to chip away at the evidence.<br />Author Veronica Heley writes a convincing cozy. Ellie Quicke is an engaging character with her size 18 frame and fear of cars and computers, but with honest good will toward others. Heley's England is a mostly charming place with its pots of tea and hard working waitresses, but it has its threatening side as well.	2002-08-24
1432339:US	49115690	R1EC0Q1C8BPKV	0373790058	577169541	Notorious (Blaze, 1)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Sexy and emotionally satisfying	Rancher Noah Garfield can't visit Las Vegas without thinking about sex--and when he thinks about sex, he thinks about Keely Branscom. She was the bad girl he wanted growing up--the one who he managed to resist when she was 16 and too young, but who then posed for a centerfold and left home. He can't believe it when he sees her in Las Vegas and resolves to do everything he can to save her.<br />Keely has never forgiven Noah for spurning her advances at 16, and this is her chance for revenge. She'll treat him to a weekend of sex he'll never forget, then move on with her life. At least she doesn't have to return to the dreary and conservative land of ranches and nosy people. The one thing she can't risk, though, is falling in love with Noah--again. But surely she's out of that now--isn't she?<br />Author Vicki Lewis Thompson writes a sexy story. Noah promises himself that he'll keep his hands off the beautiful Keely, but he doesn't have a chance when Keely turns up the heat--and boy does she turn up the heat. A Vegas wedding adds to the emotional impact of the moment as both Keely and Noah review their thoughts on what marriage means and their hopes or fears for their own future. NOTORIOUS was the launch book for Harlequin's BLAZE series--and it delivers both the sexy premise (he thinks she's a topless dancer and possibly a prostitute) and follow-through that BLAZE is built around.	2002-08-23
1432477:US	49115690	RKAESQPWOC2UX	0312865600	916270846	The Dark Lord (Oath of Empire, Book 4)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Weak close to powerful series	Constantanople has fallen and the armies of Persia stand ready to conquer the western Empire as well. In Rome, chaos has taken control. The Emperor Galen tries to rally his troops while his spies conspire among themselves, his wife gets petty and paranoid, his brother Maxim whines for new magical toys, and the ancient and now undead Julius Caesar tries to decide whether his maste would be better served by allowing Galen to remain in control, or to toss him out.<br />The Persian armies, together with Greek troops who rebelled against deceitful Constantinople, and Arabs who continue to fight for their lost Mohammed, are buttressed by magic--and have their own undead forces to bear. When the Persians take a detour to Egypt (chasing the McGuffin of a magical viewer), Rome has time to prepare--but fails to use it. Meanwhile, Mohammed lies near death and receives enlightenment. The past mistakes he has made become clear to him as he lies beneath a fig tree.<br />Author Thomas Harlan has created a powerful and thoughtful alternate universe where Christianity never took hold and where Rome is strengthened by an ancient oath that holds the nation together--at a terrible cost of lost creativity. The Oath was the central issue in earlier volumes in the series, but by now, it has become secondary--just another source of power for the nearly omnipotent Maxim.<br />In the earlier volumes, a number of characters were interesting and multidimensional even when Maxim became obsessed with his magic to the detriment of those around him. By this volume, most are simplified down to two dimensions. Of the many characters, only Galen and Aurelian seem to have any nobility about them at all (Mohammed might, but he spends the book under a fig tree so this hardly counts). Maxim is critically lazy in allowing others to do his dirty work of seizing the empire (if this is what he wants) or criminally negligent in allowing Julius Caesar to plot against his brother if it isn't what he wants.<br />Harlan writes fast-paced action and THE DARK LORD is no exception. Fans of the series will want to read this conclusion to the series and see the new world that results from Maxim's assumption of power and his final confrontation with the Dark Lord. Perhaps some fans will join me in hoping that Mohammed and some of the others show up in a surprise book 5 and overthrow the nasty magic-driven world that is created at the end of THE DARK LORD.br />Harlan writes fast-paced action and THE DARK LORD is no exception. Fans of the series will want to read this conclusion to the series and see the new world that results from Maxim's assumption of power and his final confrontation with the Dark Lord. Perhaps some fans will join me in hoping that Mohammed and some of the others show up in a surprise book 5 and overthrow the nasty magic-driven world that is created at the end of THE DARK LORD.	2002-08-23
1439602:US	49115690	R3MS9CC4N2U0LG	0671656163	335783440	King David's Spaceship	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Exciting military adventure	Colonel Nathan MacKinnie is bitter about the world. The Imperial Navy has propped up the Havenite government and wiped out MacKinnie's resistance killing the woman he loves while doing so. When King David of Haven asks for MacKinnie's assistance, he has decidedly mixed feelings. Still, the choices available for a retired colonel in a losing army are limited.<br />With help from the Imperial Navy and Imperial merchants, MacKinnie and a small group of associates leave Prince Samual's World to journey to Makassar, an even less advanced planet which happens to contain an ancient First Empire library. If MacKinney can learn enough, Prince Samual's World stands a chance to become a full member of the Empire rather than simply another colony world.<br />KING DAVID'S SPACESHIP is an intriguing 'fish out of water' story. MacKinnie and his collegues are from a low-technology world by the standards of the Empire, but have far more advanced technologies than those available on Makassar. Unfortunately, they are forbidden to use these technologies, and Makassar is bound and determined not to let anyone have access to the library, which they regard as a holy place. Somehow MacKinnie must take what he knows and dominate the Makassar civilization--without Imperial soldiers learning anything about it. His military background gives him hope, but what can he do against the tens of thousands of barbarians threatening the ancient temple city?<br />KING DAVID'S SPACESHIP is set in the motie world created by Pournelle and his frequent collaborator Larry Niven, but can be read without any knowledge of the excellent MOTE IN GOD'S EYE novel.<br />It's great to see this novel back in print.	2002-08-16
1439844:US	49115690	R2NXDU3KSLL8EC	074343529X	616195948	The Amazing Dr. Darwin	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Charming story--a rational man in the age of enlightenment	At the dawning of the enlightenment, Dr. Erasmus Darwin, grandfather of Charles Darwin, stands as a voice of reason. England is beset with rumor of the supernatural--vampires, werewolves, and demons. Darwin approaches everything with an open-minded skepticism. Together with his treasure-anxious sidekick, Colonel Jacob Pole, Darwin delves deep into the mysteries that confront 18th century England finding, among other things, the Loch Ness Monster, Bonnie Prince Charlie, and a forgotten race of humans.<br />Author Charles Sheffield has created a charming set of stories of a past not too different from our own. Darwin contains the best of Sherlock Holmes as well as the gluttony of Nero Wolfe. I suspect that Sheffield meant his novel to be a reminder to us, in the 21st Century, to always remember to look to rational and scientific causes before we ascribe whatever we see to the supernatural or unexplainable. It is easy to see why Sheffield, a scientist, would choose Erasmus Darwin as his hero.<br />THE AMAZING DR. DARWIN is both powerful and amusing. Darwin is fallible enough to be sympathetic, and Pole is sympathetic without being completely brainless.	2002-08-16
1441200:US	49115690	R1WU415DNKCB33	0765300249	590581818	White Male Infant	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Hits all the hot buttons--but cartoonlike characters limit i	When he discovers that his adopted son could not have been the Russian baby the agency claimed, Dr. Dooley McSweeny fears the worst--that his wonderful child may have been kidnapped to order. The huge fees that agencies charge certainly would provide motivation--especially for beautiful red-headed and green eyed sons. Dooley obsesses over his fears, finally returning to Russia to seek the truth. But can he, or his marriage, survive the truth when he finds it?<br />With parallel investigations by a news reporter and an FBI agent, Dooley gradually learns the horrible truth--that an adoption agency specializes in finding exactly the kind of baby that infertile couples demand and in turn, it commands fees that range upward of a quarter of a million dollars.<br />Author Barbara D'Amato taps into the fears of every parent, and every adoptive parent. The concept of using Russia and similar countries for baby-laundering is clever and convincingly portrayed. Dooley's dilemma is horribly real and effectively narrated. Likewise, reporter Gabrielle Coulter's story is compelling--both in her search for the story behind the huge need for international adoption .... In contrast, D'Amato's villains come across as cartoon-like, motivated only by greed and with no moral scruples, or even common sense.	2002-08-14
1441740:US	49115690	R17ZTVA27GZVRT	0345437055	301161243	The Bartered Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Exciting adventure with emotional depth	When returning to England from Australia, Alexandra Warren's ship is attacked by pirates and she is separated from her daughter and sold into slavery. Her constant rebellions lead to her being resold where she is sighted by handsome American merchant Gavin Elliott. Elliott can't stand by when a 'woman of his own people' is enslaved and agrees to undertake a deadly challenge to save her...<br />Author Mary Jo Putney writes a compelling and emotionally powerful novel filled with action and adventure. THE BARTERED BRIDE is strongest when set in Indonesia... Putney handles the emotional damage done by Alexandra's captivity and brutalization perfectly...<br />The English component of THE BARTERED BRIDE is still fine adventure. Still, the motivations for Alexandra's kidnappers to hold her alive seems stretched. For me, this reduced the emotional impact of the adventurous ending.<br />Minor quibbles aside, THE BARTERED BRIDE is an exciting and emotionally compelling story--and a fine addition to the Putney series of east/west romances.	2002-08-14
1444568:US	49115690	R1YA42IQPYWD09	0765303922	170230601	Whole Wide World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Provocative and interesting--security and human rights	Since the Infowars, English Detective Inspector John ? has been plagued by his doubts and shuffled into the remote bowels of British crime enforcement. In this dystopic near-future, England and much of the world are overrun by computer viruses, networked security cameras that can track and identify nearly anyone, and new morality laws that forbid virtually everything, even requiring editing of Disney movies before they pass the censors.<br />But murder is still a crime and Sophie Booth's murder is the DI's chance to reclaim active status in the police. It was a particularly nasty murder--complete with torture and finally a knifing. Worse, it was broadcast over the net and only one viewer bothered to notify the police. As the DI investigates, he begins to believe that the crime is not the straighforward murder it is made out to be. Finding the killer may not be enough to unveil the entire crime. As the police force turns against him, the DI is forced underground, taking chances that put him outside the pale.<br />Author Paul McAuley writes a tense SF mystery. The near-future environment he describes feels real and possible. For the most part, his technological crime advances ring true. The DI is well motivated and carefully drawn. His relationship with the missing Julie adds to his humanity and the violence of the crime motivates his extreme thirst for justice.	2002-08-12
1445334:US	49115690	RFMZN88LLCYWM	0670030600	904299605	The Importance of Being Ernestine: An Ellie Haskell Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Witty and fast-moving.	Ellie Haskell and her housekeeper, Mrs. Malloy are visiting in the detective's office Malloy cleans when a late client drops in. An elderly aristocrat claims that her family is suffering from a curse left behind by a falsely accused maid. The woman, believing that Ellie and Malloy are detectives, asks them to investigate. A gunman attempts to persuade them to drop the case, but only makes them more anxious to find the truth.<br />Egged on by her friend, Ellie agrees and the two women set off on a proper English play of manners. There are no end of suspects: a nephew who may have killed his parents with an exploding train set; the nephew's wife who is interested in blackmail; actresses turned maid; the elderly lady herself; and the mysteriously missing Ernestine. It takes continued efforts for Ellie and Malloy to get to the truth--and still make it home in time for Ellie to take care of her family.<br />Author Dorothy Cannell writes a funny, fast-paced novel. The character dialogue kept me chuckling, as did the rather mad-cap action. The mystery itself won't pose much of a challenge for hard-core cozy readers, but in the case of THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING ERNESTINE, getting there is where the fun is. And there is plenty of fun in this charming novel.	2002-08-11
1445698:US	49115690	R28U5T3O8YZCH	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Too many children--funny and emotionally satisfying	Lord Bannor has defeated many enemies, but the dozen children waiting for him in his own castle are too much. Clearly they need a mother. Clearly the one thing he does not need is more children. The answer is obvious--a loveless marriage to a madona-type who will cherish the children and protect him from their exuberance.<br />Willow of Bedlington has gave up her childhood to raise her step-siblings, and the half-siblings that came after them. When a strange offer of marriage comes along, she thinks only of escape. She doesn't expect to find the prince of her dreams come true. Nor does Bannor expect this beautiful vision. In fact, a tempting, sexy wife is the farthest thing from his mind--or it would be if he could stop thinking about her.<br />Still, taming the small herd of children, bringing love into a family that Bannor has seen so rarely that he doesn't even know all the childrens' names is a challenge for both of them. A challenge that descends to all-out war before it can rise to sensual delights.<br />Author Teresa Medeiros delivers a funny, emotionally rewarding historical. Bannor, with his background as a bastard son and his life spent at war for his king is the perfect damaged hero. Willow is classic cinderella, but with the determination and decisiveness to be her own fairy godmother. CHARMING THE PRINCE is a definite keeper.	2002-08-10
1446357:US	49115690	R3TLO3MOC3CNU2	0515133701	934732972	The Perfect Victim	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Gritty page turner	Death seems to surround coffee shop owner Addison Fox as she attempts to discover information about her birth parents. A foiled attempt on Addison's own life convinces her the deaths and accidents aren't just bad luck--someone is trying to wipe out all links to Addison's past. She finds an unlikely ally in a burned out investigator, Randall Talbot, who seems to be the only person who understands what she's going through and who can protect her from a murderer. But can Addison protect herself from an attraction to a man with darkness in his very soul?<br />In her first single-title novel, Ms. Castillo has created a gritty page-turner that will keep any romantic suspense fan's heart thumping. As the clues mount, the body count grows higher and all avenues of escape disappear for Addison and Randall, leading to a riveting climax that pits our heroes against a relentless clock and a merciless villain. Highly satisfying!	2002-08-09
1446878:US	49115690	RROM2TC6TBUPP	1587761122	806862629	Yesterday's Dreams	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable-- Irish legend in Ney York	With her father dying of cancer and her family's finances stretched past breaking, music teacher Kara O'Keefe decides to make the ultimate sacrifice--she'll sell Quicksilver, the fiddle that her family brought from Ireland and that is the most precious thing she owns. The power of the instrument, however, attracts a dark force that has long warred with the Sidhe of Irish legend. If it can claim the fiddle--and Kara's untrained but powerful magic--there are no limits to what it might accomplish.<br />Fortunately, Kara takes her fiddle to Maggie McCormick's pawnshop, Yesterday's Dreams. And Maggie is a Sidhe with a special bond to the O'Keefe family and the power to train Kara to protect herself. With the fiddle hidden in Maggie's shop, and Kara protected by a pin from Maggie, it seems that evil may yet be defeated.<br />Neither Maggie nor Kara count on the raw power that their enemy can bring against them. After distracting most of the Sidhe population of New York, the evil one attacks, bringing a street gang to provide the physical muscle. Maggie's magics are sophisticated, but no match for the pure power that is thrown against her. And Kara has still not had a chance to learn to control her own powers.<br />Author Danielle Ackley-McPhail shows a real love for the mythology and legends of Ireland and the Celts. From Sidhe elves to fairies, to the dark gods of ancient Athens, the legends come to life in this novel. As a character, Kara develops from a weak and indecisive woman to a person who can wield power in her own right, and who can make decisions that go against the advice even of her closest friends. I would have liked to see more evidence of the power of the evil to add to the sense of danger, and some aspects of the magic are still unclear to me, but overall, YESTERDAY'S DREAMS is an enjoyable and satisfying read.	2002-08-09
1447067:US	49115690	R1HLJB1TOZP7UX	0373169345	789446607	Vixen In Disguise (How to Marry a Hardison)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great start to new series--cowboy and rodeo bunny/lawyer	Anne Chatsworth only let herself go wild once--a glorious weekend spent with her girlhood crush, rodeo champion Wade Hardison. Now she's getting ready to launch her career as a big-city lawyer and the last thing she needs is Wade coming back into her life. Wade reluctantly returns to the small town he left when he was just 16 for some much needed rest and recuperation. He still cherishes memories of the vanished 'Annie' and can't believe his eyes when he sees her in little Cottonwood, Texas. But this Anne is a lot more complicated than the Annie he loved and lost--and she holds a secret that can tear him apart.<br />Anne and Wade seem destined to head in different directions--Anne to the big city and Wade to horse ranching. Yet Anne can't ignore the desire that burns through her body each time she sees Wade--nor her wish to see him reconciled with his family. Surely she won't be rescuing her heart if she just sees him.<br />Author Kara Lennox delivers a powerfully mix of family and sexy emotion. The scene with the three bachelor brothers, their single father, and their single grandfather brought me nearly to tears. And Wade and Anne as two of the sexiest characters Lennox has written. As each comes to terms with their own issues, each gradually becomes the one person that can fulfill the other's needs and desires--but can either put aside their ambitions to make marriage possible?<br />This may well be Lennox's best work yet--and the best part is, it's the beginning of a three-book series.	2002-08-09
1447311:US	49115690	R94CFASIQBJMW	0373835094	282341372	Unbreakable Bonds (The Randalls Saga)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Twins, Randalls, and true love--Christenberry but bigger	When Nicholas McMillan learns that he has an identical twin brother--Gabe Randall--he heads to Rawhide, Wyoming to claim the family he lost. He doesn't know quite what to expect, but he certainly doesn't expect to be slapped in the face by the beautiful Sarah Waggoner. Gabe is used to wealth, to the big city, and to sophisticated women. Somehow, though, Rawhide, with its swarms of Randalls, his brother, and especially Sarah, starts to appeal more and more. If only he could get Sarah to see things his way.<br />Gabe Randall has finally settled down after years on the rodeo circuit. His ranch is just taking off and he had counted on settling down with Jennifer Waggoner--the only woman he's ever loved. Yet now that he finally has something to offer her, Jennifer tells him that she has left him for another. When Jennifer turns up pregnant, Gabe is willing to do the honorable thing--but he won't trust his heart to Jennifer ever again.<br />Author Judy Christenberry delivers another emotion-packed Randall family tale. Fans of the series will be overjoyed to see the original Randall brides (and grooms) hard at work at what they love best--matchmaking and family building. With their help, Gabe and Nick may have a chance at winning the love of the beautiful sisters they cherish.<br />Christenberry's female characters, Jennifer and Sarah, both have some growing to do as well and Christenberry does a fine job allowing them to become strong and independent women who are able to stand on their own feet--as all Randall women do.<br />UNBREAKABLE BONDS is Christenberry's first longer novel. The format allows for twice the romance and twice the Randall matchmaking and macho men.	2002-08-09
1449443:US	49115690	R2753ZFUZ06KPQ	0553107305	542824007	Chopping Spree	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fast-paced story, likable character	Caterer and part-time mystery solver Goldy Schulz is finally out of her financial hole--her catering business is taking off. She's nowhere in the shopping league as some of her clients--who spend thousands of dollars a month on 'stuff' and then need to rent storage to keep it--but she can afford something nice for her son, at least. Unfortunately for Goldy, financial success is not the end to her problems. Her son, 15, is perpetually angry, one of her clients reminds her of her abusive ex-husband, and another is the near-victim of a hit-and-run, except he seemed to expect the attack. When the client ends up dead, Goldie and her assistant are high on the suspect list--and the other suspects are either clients or friends. Not a good situation for a caterer trying to make it in Colorado high society.<br />With a little help from her cop-husband, Goldy goes to work tracking down the evidence. The victim's lifestyle made him plenty of enemies so there is no lack of suspects, but finding proof is more complicated. A number of abortive attempts to discover the truth, intermixed with cooking sprees, lead Goldy deeper into trouble but no closer to the truth. Worse, some of the clues come in the form of messages that look just like the kind that the victim used to use.<br />Author Diane Mott Davidson writes an engaging novel. It's easy to identify with Goldy and her attempts to keep her family together, keep her head above financial waters, and to keep her friendships alive when paranoia is running wild. A few loose ends could have been better tied up--I'm still curious about Goldy's blackouts--shouldn't she see a doctor about them--and the coffee overdoses seem extreme. I'm even more confused about an explosion that came when one of her assistants poured burgandy on a flame. Wine certainly doesn't burn. And, really, Goldy is supposed to be smart--it took her a long time to figure out some of the obvious clues. These are small quibbles, however. CHOPPING SPREE is an enjoyable and fast read with something to say about cooking (good), coffee (very good), and shopping (dangerous in more ways than one.)le and fast read with something to say about cooking (good), coffee (very good), and shopping (dangerous in more ways than one.)	2002-08-07
1451527:US	49115690	RK2S12035V1ZN	0727858114	56262579	Seeing is Deceiving (Inspector Alvarez Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Charming story--Alvarez investigates between cognacs	When Inspector Alvarez of the Mallorca Cuerpo is asked to look into a noise heard outside of the closed shutters of some of the island's expatriot bungalows, he suspects that the wind is the problem--and that he won't have to miss one of his cognac over ice drinks. When he finds that there was no wind, he wonders if another explanation might prevail--an explanation that leads to murder.<br />The death of a young man might be an accident, but it might also be murder. Alvarez bucks his boss, who merely wishes to close the case and his own self-interest (Alvarez is primarilly interested in sleeping and eating although he isn't completely averse to the idea of young female companionship) to continue an investigation into a murder that really shouldn't have happened. After all, what possible reason could anyone have for killing the young man? Apparently unconnected, Alvarez is also asked to help an English police officer investigate a torture/murder.<br />Author Roderic Jeffries delivers a delightful mystery. The island of Mallorca comes alive as Alvarez deals with his home life (a distant cousin and her family), his job, his craving for fine alcohol and food, and a sense of dogged determination to continue looking for the truth no matter that doing so makes it difficult for him to enjoy any of these. Of course, he can often justify putting off his work--and especially his reports--until Monday.<br />SEEING IS DECEIVING is a wonderful story and a fine mystery.	2002-08-05
1452005:US	49115690	R2O0I56YE4LBV9	0399148795	521197508	McNally's Alibi (Archy McNally Novels)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Fun with Archie in Palm Beach--between girls and blackmail	When confidential investigator Archie McNally is hired to deliver a blackmail payment, he figures it is money in the bank. But Archie hadn't been counting on ...<br />Fans of Archie McNally will be overjoyed to see him back in action. His off-again-on-again relationship with the beautiful Connie is more off than on in this novel and Archie continues to battle with the question of his single status. That Archie got a little bit back from his co-workers and friends kept McNally's Alibi from being as smug or superior as some other novels in this series.<br />Author Vincent Lardo delivers a fast-paced and enjoyable read. Archie's observations on the personalities of Palm Beach, Florida, the foibles of the rich, and Archie's own reasoning to wear another pink shirt add to the depth of the novel.	2002-08-05
1453581:US	49115690	R12ECZYRG9TS5M	0743417941	685651502	The Enchantment (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Time travel and magic and anachronism	When a kilted scotsman drops into her antique shop with crazy words about the 'peacemaker,' Eilan Dougan does what any woman would do--calls the cops. But she can't keep her mind off the handsome scotsman--or forget that she has long been nicknamed peacemaker. When he promises to take her back in time and to cure the inoperable tumor that is slowly killing her, Eilan agrees to the venture--mad though it may seem.<br />Conor McCloud has returned from a crusade only to find that his uncle has usurped his castle and is conducting a literal witch hunt. Although Conor has fought against magics of all kinds, he promises a dying friend that he'll seek out the peacemaker and bring peace to his land. He doesn't count on falling in love with a witch, but that is exactly what happens. Back in the 14th century, the two must find a way to bring love where hate is now dominant.<br />Author Pam Binder combines time travel with a Scotland/Medieval historical to deliver the classic alpha male to his centuries-separated true love. Readers will want to overlook several huge anachronisms (exactly how many crusades was Conor returning from, where was Turkey during the 14th century if Conor spent time there when the Byzantines still ruled much of Anatolia, and how is Conor so familiar with new world foods) but may find it harder to accept Binder's decision to hide most of the peacemaking from the reader. For me, at least, the huge problems that required magic beyond time seemed suddenly to vanish.	2002-08-03
1454338:US	49115690	RQW86UBYGNP7E	0312290969	451443177	The Rampant Reaper: A Charlie Greene Mystery (Charlie Greene Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Mix of wacky and thoughts on euthenasia	When her mother asked her to go back with her to Iowa, Charlie Green had wanted to refuse. Iowa and the family there meant nothing to Charlie--noting but the people who had made her mother's life miserable. Still, she couldn't abandon her mother to her ruthless relatives. Charlie goes to Iowa.<br />Myrtle, Iowa is something of a mystery itself. The town is supported largely by a home for the aged--where, curiously, people go to die but...<br />Author Marlys Millhiser delivers a quirky and thoughtful mystery. ...<br />THE RAMPANT REAPER includes knee-slapping humor, but is occasionally hard to follow and sometimes loses track of the mystery completely. As I was reading, I couldn't help wonder if Millhiser is having current problems with her own aging relatives. Perhaps so, because REAPER seemed unable to make up its mind whether it was intended to be a funny-quirky novel, or a thoughtful examination of the way America treats its aging, and saddles its women with these responsibilities.	2002-08-02
1455037:US	49115690	R1VYUHLB3GXYSZ	0312878877	370273649	Fire Logic	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Almost a great book	The Shaftali nation has been left leaderless and is under attack by invading Sainnites. Bands of guerillas fight back, but without the magical power of their leader, the Shaftali seem helpless. And even magic seems insufficient. Certainly Zanja's fire magic is inadequate to prevent the complete destruction of her people. Rescued by a giantess, Zanja joins the guerilla movement, but even here she finds enemies and secrets.<br />Author Laurie J. Marks creates an intriguing world with a magic system based on cryptic glyphs and upon the elements of air, earth, fire, and water. Law has always been used to constrain and control these magics, yet the magics remain the center of the civilization--a contradiction that threatens to destroy what is left of the nation. Marks may also please or upset readers through her frank discussions of the gay and lesbian relationships between many of her characters--relationships that are perfectly understood and accepted within her fantasy world.<br />FIRE LOGIC is enjoyable reading, yet Marks falls short of delivering the full emotional intensity deserved by her subject matter. The physical and social suffering that Zanja survived shoud have been powerful and compelling--instead, it was matter of fact. The love between Zanja and Karis was described, but not really felt. This was almost a truly wonderful novel.	2002-08-01
1455479:US	49115690	R3DOQ659V1PE7D	0553582003	531722337	The Secret Swan	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Couldn't put it down	When her husband of days heads off for the war against France, Amiranth resolves to wait for him--she can teach him to love her when he returns. But when he fails to return, year after year, Amiranth comes up with a new plan--she'll take her dead cousin's identity and seek a new life in a convent. Her husband Tristan's return after eight years in a French prison disturbs Amiranth's plans--but she resolves to continue, despite the rekindled love that Tristan creates within her.<br />Eight years in a French dungeon has changed Tristan. Over those years, he learned to hold onto his few memories of Amiranth and cherish them in ways that he had never done during their week together. He dreams now of returning to what was taken from him--his lands, his wealth, and most especially his wife. When he finds that his wife has died in the plague sweeping England, he knows he must go on--but Amiranth's cousin Lilly is strangely attractive, and strangely familiar to him.<br />Author Shana Abe takes these two tortured characters through a rebirth--of their lives and their love for one another. But love alone is not enough. Can Amiranth trust Tristan with her heart and her body again, after all that has happened? And can Tristan learn to give up what he most wants? In 1300s England, even survival is not guaranteed, and Amiranth and Tristan must learn to work together to hold onto both love and life.<br />THE SECRET SWAN was a 2002 RITA Award finalist and understandably so. Abe's writing is smooth and satisfying and she provides both emotional depth and enough plot twists to keep the reader fascinated.	2002-08-01
1460170:US	49115690	R1CEVQKNEISSN3	0765304333	277915668	Archform: Beauty	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Near-future crime story, a moral, and good characters--great	Police Lieutenant Chiang is overwhelmed with work--the last thing he needs is a series of strange overdose cases--cases where no excessive drugs or alcohol seem involved. As he investigates, he learns that the cases may be involved with something even more sinister. Someone is attempting to take over one of the largest Earth-based technology companies and murder is no object.<br />Author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. delivers a futuristic earth with close ties to today's technologies and dangers. Extrapolating on trends in science (nanotechnology is the dominant means of producing food, protecting buildings, and preventing disease), the Internet (everyone has a built-in web connection), biological warfare (there an outbreak of an e-bola virus during the story), and space technology (Mars inhabitants are bombarding the earth with supposedly out-of-control asteroid debris), Modesitt's earth is both believable and interesting.<br />Modesitt uses his novel as a polemic in favor of the arts and beauty--support for 'great art' rather than popular art, and for the irrational over pure rationalism, but this sermon is delivered well in the context of the story (except for occasional essay bits inserted to make sure the reader doesn't miss the points--trust us, Modesitt, we would have got it without them). The mystery, a number of sympathetic characters, and even a hint of a romance add up to a compelling read.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-07-28
1466023:US	49115690	RBP6A94AQ49D2	0804119716	636903788	Out of Control (Troubleshooters, Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Adventure in the jungle--a real page-turner	When her uncle is kidnapped, heiress Savannah von Hopf sets off to pay the ransom. Savannah is ready to do what it takes to rescue her uncle but she's not too proud to look for some help--especially if that help can come from handsome Navy Seal WildCard Ken Karmody. Especially since she's had a mad crush on Karmondy for years. When they arrive in Jakarta, though, the simple ransom exchange goes horribly wrong. Savannah and Karmondy are themselves kidnapped. Almost equally bad from Savannah's point of view, the man she is quickly falling in love with thinks she is a mercenary witch.<br />Back in the U.S., the FBI and Karmondy's Seal team are setting up for a rescue of their own. Savannah's uncle is the son of a World War II spy-heroine and the special forces aren't about to forget their debts.<br />Author Suzanne Brockmann weaves together an exciting adventure as Savannah and Karmondy wade through the twin jungles of Indonesia and of their passion and distrust. A parallel romance between missionary Molly Anderson and pilot 'Dave Jones' strengthens the story. Indeed, the romance between Molly and 'Jones' is truly the more powerful and angst-ridden of the two.<br />Some teriffic action, some serious jungle survival, and just enough of the continuing character development of the FBI and Seal teams round out the strengths of this fine novel.<br />I found the outtakes from the World War II memoires to add little to the story and lack the emotional intensity of the present-day romances but this did little to detract from the compelling story line.	2002-07-23
1466342:US	49115690	R2TJDFA0IJZWR4	0151002843	724165016	In the Clear	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Damaged Hero, weak mystery	Sheriff Albert LaRosa is serving out his time, unable to deal with a family violence case gone terribly wrong, his father's emotional desire to hang onto the family store, or his girlfriend's wish for something different. When developer Oscar Price offers LaRosa a position as head of security in his to-be-built casino, with a huge increase in salary, LaRosa sees it as a way to solve all of his problems. Unfortunately for him, his girlfriend thinks he's sold out and his father quickly becomes suspected of sabotaging the proposed development.<br />LaRosa turns to drink for a solution but finds this only a partial out. He tries to balance his own desires with those of his family and his girlfriend but cannot reconcile the dramatically different positions.<br />Author Steve Lopez delivers an intriguingly damaged character in Albert LaRosa. Unfortunately for the novel, none of the other characters possess even a fraction of LaRosa's depth playing out the roles of evil and corrupt developer, heroic shopkeeper, resentful youth, or whatever role Lopez seems to need. As solving the mystery of the bombings becomes secondary to the urge to protect LaRosa's loved ones, even LaRosa begins to lose his appeal.<br />Lopez writes compellingly about the New Jersey shore, the superficial appeal of Atlantic City, and the corrupting influence of money. For me, at least, the fascinating description of this nasty world did not compensate for unsympathetic characters and superficial mystery.	2002-07-22
1475978:US	49115690	R3H1X8U9RSZ51U	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Very nice--a new American revolution in the 30 years war	When a small West Virginia town is translated into the middle of the 30 years war in Germany, its residents know they'll have a struggle to survive. The war destroyed much of Germany and was a definite low point in human misconduct. Still, survival isn't enough for Mike Stearn and some of the other West Virginians (especially not the militant unionists). They want to start the American Revolution a century and a half early. For a while, at least, they have access to modern technology--but how long that can last against the disciplined opposition of most of Europe remains to be seen.<br />Fortunately, a labor shortage is the least of Stearn's problems. Starving peasants flock to anyone willing to protect them and, after a brief internal battle with the isolationists, they are admitted into a new United States. Still, this new republic can only ally with the Swedish King and the history books report that he doesn't survive the onslaught of the great mercenary general Wallenstein.<br />Author Eric Flint delivers a fast-paced and convincing account of a new nation, conceived in liberty and in the fields of battle. I liked Flint's decision to make the ordinary people the heros of the story. Preserving the real values of America shouldn't be something for the elite only and Flint delivers more 'everyman' heros than you can shake a stick at.<br />Although Flint isn't quite the master of military fiction as, for example his sometimes writing partner David Drake  he delivers some fine battles in this novel including a historic battle between King Gustav Adolf and Tilly.<br />1632 makes a compelling and fascinating read.	2002-07-14
1476632:US	49115690	R24P6PP0TJC0VV	0312288506	466997771	Ash Child (Gabriel Du Pre Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Powerful and rewarding novel	Wolf Mountain is dry and the fires are starting. It will be a fire of the century, Gabriel Du Pre knows. But when the fires actually start, there is more than simply nature. Du Pre may live in the boonies of Montana, but even the most remote part of America isn't immune to murder, arson, or drugs. When an old woman is murdered, Du Pre is thrust into a strange world where no one is exactly as they appear, but where the danger is incredibly real.<br />Author Peter Bowen uses a powerful and distinctive voice to describe the lives of the Metis Indians and the ranchers who survive in the harsh lands of Montana. Du Pre relies on a combination of bull-headed bravery, investigating, and Native American magic to learn the truth. In Bowen's novels, the magic is real, and the result is often close to magic itself.<br />With its wealth of intriguing characters and its vivid descriptions of the land and people of Montana, ASH CHILD is a fine and compelling novel. I would have liked to see a stronger connection between the drug angle and the rest of the mystery, but it is hard to quibble with Bowen's work.	2002-07-13
1476784:US	49115690	R1N8HB2E7W1TCT	0451458672	388434684	Drinking Midnight Wine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very nice adventure--poor bookstore clerk becomes hero	Toby Dexter follows a beautiful woman through a door that shouldn't be there and finds himself in the parallel world of Mysterie--a world where magic works, gods and werewolves walk, and where a terrible evil is trying to pull both our mundane Earth and Mysterie into a total destruction. Unfortunately for Toby, he has become the focus--the one man on whom the fate of the universe depends. And Toby is far from being a hero. Fortunately, however, he is a man in love--and he is willing to take quite extra-ordinary steps to keep the woman he loves.<br />Author Simon R. Green's version of the world of magic is intriguing. Although Mysterie may be a world of magic and powers, it is also a world circumscribed by ancient rules. A hero is a hero, a villain is a villain. Progress and change are difficult concepts for Mysterie. For this reason, our mundane Earth is the source of hope for those who seek more than what already is. It is also the source of fear and danger for those who enjoy their current status and wish only for more power. The ancient powers of the universe, the Snake in the Sun, Luna the Moon, and others, battle for the future--but find that that entire future hangs by the slender fulcrum of Toby Dexter.<br />Green writes an engaging story with a nice surprises and emotional twists. The tortured characters of Hob, son of the Serpent and Luna, and of the Angel in particular, stand out as strong and fine.	2002-07-13
1481545:US	49115690	R14VH58GK28RWG	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Funny and wacky as ever--Plum is back	When her parents' next-door neighbor asks Stephanie Plum to look for her missing granddaughter, Stephanie figures that it can't be too serious. Evelyn was probably just running from an abusive ex-husband. A quick look, though, turns up Eddie Abruzzi, a mob leader with a distinctly insane side to him. Stephanie knows that she should lay low, but laying low is not in her character. And in-your-face is exactly what Eddie needs to push him over the edge.<br />Stephanie tries to get on with her life--hanging around with ex-Ho Lulu, failing to bring in bond jumpers, and trying to reconcile her attraction to the two men in her life (Ranger and Joe) with her perpetual datelessness. Still, Abruzzi won't let her go and starts to escalate the violence against her.<br />Author Janet Evanovich has delivered another side-splitting, car destroying, and semi-sexy novel in HARD EIGHT. All the familiar characters are back, along with Stephanie's endearing combination of incompetence and stick-to-it-ness. Fans of the series will be intrigued and maybe even surprised to see the latest in the ongoing love triangle.<br />For me, the Stephanie Plum series continues to be enjoyable--I'm certainly looking forward to the next volume. Evanovich is doing her best to deal with a fundamental problem in the series--that Stephanie's incompetence is a little less convincing in the eighth novel in the series than it was in the first. That she is able to pull it off is a credit to her abilities as a writer. That it becomes a little more strained with each book is unfortunate but, perhaps, inescapable.<br />Stephanie Plum is a treat and HARD EIGHT is a fine addition to the series.	2002-07-09
1483533:US	49115690	R3R7OX0HGST9SD	1590580044	409229637	Bermuda Grass	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Well written but unlikable protagonist	When golf pro Alan Saxon is hired to help build a golf course for a hotel in Bermuda, he decides to turn it into a vacation--taking his college-aged daughter with him. When he arrives in Bermuda, however, he finds that the golf course has run into problems. At first he dismisses the idea of sabotage--but when a murder victim ends up hanging in the middle of the course, he isn't so sure. When someone raises the stakes and attacks Saxon's family, he decides to spring into action and get to the bottom of the case--no matter who gets hurt.<br />Author Keith Miles sets up an intriguing mystery with beautiful Bermuda as the backdrop. The hotel where Saxon is staying is the result of a bidding war that left a lot of angry parties behind--and it is possible that someone is trying to get their revenge. Of course, the murder victim wasn't exactly Mr. Personality, so possibly it's nothing more than coincidence that this is happening on the golf course.<br />I found Saxon himself to be unsympathetic. While his anger at his ex-wife was occasionally amusing and made him more human, it was also unlikable. As was his treatment of his new girlfriend, Nancy (would he have been as cool if she had been younger than him rather than older?). Obviously not especially liking the protagonist makes it harder to get into the mystery.<br />Miles is a talented writer and the mystery definitely got me hooked so I am happy to recommend this novel--but I hope that Saxon gets a bit of a personality transplant before we see him again.	2002-07-08
1483734:US	49115690	R2JWULFTINRSB0	076530371X	481887785	Permanence	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Top-notch universe building. One of the best	Man has arrived at the stars, but in two stages. First, he played hopscotch across a sea of brown dwarfs, almost-stars that fill the galaxy and provide energy through gravity. Second, through the discovery of faster-than-light (FTL) flight. Unfortunately for those who colonized the planets surrounding the brown dwarfs, FTL only operates near major gravity wells--true stars. Now, the lit stars have broken the compound that bound them to their weaker brothers and are leaving the billions behind as they expand.<br />When Rue Cassels discovers an alien sublight spaceship, she dreams of using it to restore the compact, to bring space travel back to the abandoned planets. A team of scientists thinks only of the scientific benefits--the ship was built for multiple types of aliens while humans have never found a species that will even talk to them. Finally, an admiral from the lit stars can only think of the military implications. It is legally Rue's ship, but accidents have been known to happen. She will have to use every trick in the book to hold onto her property--and prevent a genocidal war.<br />Author Karl Schroeder does a fine job creating a believable future society--and the inventions that tear it apart.  The 'Rights Economy,' of the lit stars is a logical extrapolation of one of today's hot issues. Fortunately, Schroeder integrates this theme deeply into the story--I never felt like I was being preached to.<br />With her history of abuse and willingness to fight anyone, Rue makes a sympathetic character. It is Schroeder's world-building, however, complete with warring economic systems, alien technologies and ecological niches, and religious/philosophical richness, that makes PERMANENCE the powerful and exciting book that it is.<br />Highly recommended--this one has meat, and will stick with you.	2002-07-08
1486341:US	49115690	R3DZ7TME4AUXX	0399147969	489519503	The Burying Field	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fine characters--racism in the south	It seems like a simple case. A Louisianna developer hires lawyer Danny Chaisson to make sure he doesn't get into trouble about some land he ownes--land where an African American man was assaulted by a group of white teens. Chaisson needs the money and agrees to take the case but what he finds is anything but simple. Instead, he finds a slave burial-ground, a 20 year-old murder, the Klan, and a sheriff who can't seem to find enough evidence when white suspects are concerned but moves quickly where blacks are suspected.<br />With the help of his ATF agent-wife Mickie, and his African American friend Jabril, Chaisson soon learns far more than the sheriff ever admitted to knowing. But knowing isn't the same as putting criminals in jail. And Chaisson needs to worry about staying alive long enough to do anything about the crimes he discovers.<br />Author Kenneth Abel writes a compelling novel filled with danger and insights into human nature. Chaisson's attempts to find the truth despite an entire society that seems designed only to keep secrets kept me on the edge of my seat.<br />For me, the use of a fairly stereotyped small-town southern setting with racist antagonists and a corrupt sheriff weakened what was otherwise a fine novel. Too, Abel's decision to include a scene with only villains gave away too much of the mystery, eliminating the delightful surprise the reader feels when we finally discover who is ultimately behind the evil doings.<br />THE BURYING FIELD is an exciting and page-turning book that falls just short of being truly powerful.	2002-07-05
1486345:US	49115690	R1TBOVY5Q6CSCQ	1400045088	458212829	The Salmon of Doubt: Hitchhiking the Galaxy One Last Time	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A must for fans--but read the real (finished) books first	The late author Douglas Adams is a giant in modern SF with his immortal HITCHHIKERS GUIDE TO THE GALAXY series and the fine Dirk Gently series as well. THE SALMON OF DOUBT is the assembled draft of an uncompleted novel that features Dirk Gently but that Adams had discussed transforming into a HITCHHIKER novel. In addition to the novel fragment (approximately 100 pages), the book includes various descriptions of Adams, some of his humorous writings and interviews, and some general hero worshiping.<br />That said, what about the novel fragment itself? Dirk Gently finds that his (always empty) bank account is being unaccountably filled and decides that he is being paid to investigate. Since he doesn't know what he is being paid for, he resolves to follow the fifth person who passes a certain corner and investigate him. With a few digressions into a near-god's hang-glider experience, a rampaging rhino, and Thor--the Norse god of thunder, Dirk sets out on a bizzare adventure. In typical Adams fashion, everything is silly, but everything hangs together with a strange logic.<br />Is it worth reading? Of course. It's Douglas Adams, after all.<br />Is it wonderful? Uh, not really. It's definitely interesting. Interesting to learn about what makes a writer tick and also interesting in that you get to see the scafoldings of a novel in the making--with what Adams describes as its placeholders (one of the non-novel sections of this volume is Adams' description of an unfinished book by the late P. G. Wodehouse in which Adams describes SUNSET AT BLANDINGS).<br />Adams fans will be overjoyed to see one last addition to the corpus. Those not so familiar with Adams should start with his finished (and polished) novels. Everyone should be aware that although this may be 'Hitchhiking the Galaxy One Last Time,' it isn't really in the HITCHHIKER series at all--although Adams might have moved it there had he lived.	2002-07-05
1488694:US	49115690	R27MNN493AMZMC	0871319705	280955407	Private Heat: An Art Hardin Mystery (Art Hardin Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great action--fine characters	Private Detective Art Hardin is hired to help in a domestic violence case--a police officer isn't taking his divorce calmly and Hardin has a reputation for not taking the police terribly seriously. He soon learns that the case is a lot more complicated than domestic violence...<br />Author Robert Bailey delivers an action-packed thriller. Hardin is a fine wise-cracking hero, ready to take on the police or anyone else for his client and his pride...<br />PRIVATE HEAT was occasionally too complicated, with too many corrupt officials and too many tough-guy acts on the part of Hardin, but only occasionally. For the most part, this was a fine and exciting novel. A real page turner and hard to put down.	2002-07-03
1488816:US	49115690	R3VVX9FZOH2AQS	0812570839	54983475	Destiny: Child of the Sky (Rhapsody Trilogy Book 3) (The Symphony of Ages)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good end to great series	Rhapsody, Achmed, and Grunthor have all established themselves in the new world, but until the demon F'dor is destroyed, there can be no peace, no final victory, and no happy ending for Rhapsody's mostly unlucky romance with Ashe. To defeat the demon, they must first find him--and that is a good trick since the demon has taken over the body of a human and can fit perfectly into human society. Rhapsody must hunt down the cursed children born with a drop of demon blood--blood that will restore Achmed's ability to track anyone--the ability that made him the greatest assassin in the history of the lost world.<br />F'dor is only one of Rhapsody's problems. The new continent the three comrads reached is torn by war between the members of the three fleets of refugees. After millions of deaths, hatred and mistrust linger on. Finally, Rhapsody herself learns that Ashe is already married and has lied to her. Although her political power may grow, she is emotionally crushed.<br />Author Elizabeth Haydon delivers a powerfully emotional and compelling story. Rhapsody is just imperfect enough to make her suffering real and meaningful. She continues to grow as a character and as a political figure until she becomes the dominant character of this age of the world.<br />Of the three novels in the RHAPSODY series, DESTINY is the weakest. Haydon's description of the arriving Cymrians at the great council repeated itself way too much and the romantic misunderstandings between Rhapsody and Ashe could have come out of an uninspired romance novel. That said, being the weakest in this powerful series doesn't keep DESTINY from being a fine and rewarding novel. Fans of the series will need to read DESTINY to find out how Haydon resolves both the external plot and the emotional entanglements she surrounded her characters with. Fantasy fans who have not yet discovered the RHAPSODY series are in for a treat. The three novels should be read in order and are not fully free-standing.	2002-07-03
1490698:US	49115690	R1H2EKZ0C0YI38	0451206061	632998131	A Game of Patience (Trialsman, 247)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Well written with true character growth	Patience Ballard has been in love with Pip since she was a young child. Now she's an adult, ready for her season, but Pip is already engaged to another. She resolves to find some way to win Pip's attention, to give herself a chance before Pip is snatched from her forever. The adult Pip is beautiful, purely sexy, and attacks life with a joy that makes everything a game. Still, does Patience really want everything to be a game, especially love? Patience's other childhood friend, Richard, is everything that Pip is not--steady, dependable, and thoughtful. Yet, Patience learns that Richard is also secretly in love--apparently with a married woman. What is a girl to do?<br />Author Elisabeth Fairchild does a wonderful job depicting that odd moment in history known as the Regency Period. Aristocrats party while the masses go hungry and everyone is concerned about reputation and the risk of being ruined. Patience begins as a flighty aristocrat but gradually sees beneath the surface of society, becoming a more complete person--and a person capable of an adult relationship. Still, can she learn the difference between passion and love--before it is too late?	2002-07-01
1491034:US	49115690	R2SD4YK05MS7ES	0451206509	123176868	Chicago Confidential: A Nathan Heller Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fine novel--and great character	Detective Nathan Heller knows better than to get involved in the Kefauver hearings on organized crime. He knows plenty--but the only way to stay alive is to keep what he knows under his hat. He tries to tell his friend Bill Drury the same thing, but Bill is intent on taking the Chicago Mafia down. When Drury gets killed in a Mafia hit, Heller knows he has to get involved--but how can he manage that without ending up as dead as Drury?<br />Author Max Allan Collins delivers a convincing account of Chicago during the 1950s. The American Mafia has begun its climb toward respectability, helped by the FBI's assurances that there is no organized crime in America. Chicago is controlled by a combination of its political machine and the mob, with dirty police more common than not.<br />Collins makes Heller acquainted with both major mob figures and with popular icons such as Frank Sinatra and Jayne Mansfield, giving the reader occasional brushes with the famous. What makes CHICAGO CONFIDENTIAL powerful, however, is Heller's emotional strength as he battles between doing what is safe and what is right--in a Chicago-pragmatic way.<br />CHICAGO CONFIDENTIAL is an enjoyable novel and Nathan Heller a convincing and sympathetic 'tough guy' hero.	2002-07-01
1491312:US	49115690	R2FYUWPR73P27U	0425183491	97412901	Steps to the Altar (Benni Harper)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Emotionally satisfying and well written	Benni Harper has got too much going on in her life to get involved in an ancient unsolved murder case. She's got to plan for two weddings, a Mardi Gras party, and then there's the little matter of her husband's old girlfriend showing up--and looking very much like she has her claws out for Gabe Harper. Still, once she learns about the 50-year-old murder and the woman who supposedly killed her husband, Benni can't rest until she learns more. How could a marriage that started so well have gone so badly so quickly? At some level, her own marriage problems become transferred to her need to solve the mystery.<br />Author Earlene Fowler does a wonderful job delivering an emotionally rich mystery. Bennie is a teriffic character with a full set of skills and fears. Her job at the local California museum gives her the ability to track down ancient clues to the long-forgotten mystery--a mystery that still rankles with many of the older residents.<br />Her concerns about her husband's love, and increasing understanding of the murder make it hard for Bennie to put all of her positive attention on the upcoming weddings, but somehow Fowler manages to pull all of this together into an emotionally satisfying story.	2002-07-01
1494090:US	49115690	R2R2H6B43Q3WBQ	0765302276	853917835	The Rock Rats (Asteroid Wars)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Good science, wretched characters	Earth is self-destructing into global warming, new morality, desertification, and starvation. The moon is independent but civilized. Now, the real frontier is the asteroid belt--an area where a man can dream about the big find that will make him rich--and where most of the money is collected by the merchants, the companies that transport ore back to Seline and Earth, and by the barmen and entertainers. When Amanda Cunningham marries Lars Fuchs, Martin Humphries conceives of a clever plan--give the couple a spaceship as a wedding present and send Lars out on a wild goose chase. While he's gone, Humphries is certain that he can persuade Amanda to join him in his bed--and as his wife. When Amanda decides to join Lars on the ship, Humphries has to scheme more deeply, setting off piracy and violence in the anarchic asteroid belt. With his resources, this isn't difficult for Humphries--and he knows that Lars will react just fine.<br />THE ROCK RATS continues author Ben Bova's  near future saga with a number of recurring characters. Bova's science--from asteroid hunting to nanotechnology to global warming to using the gravity of an asteroid to conserve fuel--seems sound and provides an intriguing backdrop to the story. Similarly, his new morality movement on Earth as well as occasional references to terrorism are interesting extrapolations from today into the near future.<br />Where Bova falls short is in his characters. Amanda spends much of THE ROCK RATS whining about wanting to return to Earth--apparently unconcerned that she and Lars provide the only competitive supply source for the thousands of explorers and miners who are their friends--and the hope of humanity's survival. Lars lets hatred and jealosy motivate his behavior and drive him into simply unforgiveable acts. Pancho Lane, a major character in THE PRECIPICE (see our review) is a cameo character without a lot of depth. Even Humphries' beautiful and deadly assistant Diane Verwoerd becomes terminally stupid toward the end of the novel. Frankly, although Humphries is the badguy, he's the only sympathetic character in the novel.oward the end of the novel. Frankly, although Humphries is the badguy, he's the only sympathetic character in the novel.	2002-06-28
1497467:US	49115690	R1J4UD4YKGZJTC	0743403363	993228768	The Dream of the Broken Horses	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Hard to put down	Since his childhood, forensic artist David Weiss has been obsessed with a society double-murder that implicated his father and drove the man to suicide. Now, Weiss is back in his childhood home of Calista (a mythical midwestern town) and intends to use his time to discover the truth. The murder may be decades old but Weiss is certain that the easy explanations are wrong--that something more profound remains to be found.<br />Weiss's investigations lead him to stories of sexual obsession, child pornography, and blackmail. There are plenty of motives for murder--and even after all the years that have passed, some still living are willing to take action to stop the investigation and protect their secrets. With the help of a case writeup by his father and one of the victim's intimate diary, Weiss learns a great deal about the people who were killed, but nothing points a certain finger at the actual killer.<br />Author William Bayer's strong writing makes THE DREAM OF THE BROKEN HORSES something special and something far stronger than the story that underlies it. In some ways, the actual story is frustrating and important loose ends remain. Bayer's use of diary to develop character and reveal clues would normally be a cheat. Somehow, however, Bayer pulls it off. The powerful character of Barbara Fulraine (one of the victims) dominates the novel and the lives of many of the survivors. Her dream of broken horses may have been a psychiatrist's wish fulfilment, but it is also a sad reflection of the painful life Barbara endured.<br />THE DREAM OF THE BROKEN HORSES is a hard book to put down. Although most of the action takes place in back story, Bayer's writing is so compelling that I found myself reading on compulsively. Very fine.	2002-06-26
1497609:US	49115690	RJVKY20692393	0345435273	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Princess Meredith is maturing as a character--good stuff	Princess Meredith is now an heir to the Unseelie Court--but will inherit only if she becomes pregnant and bears young. Given that the fair folk have become remarkably infertile lately, this isn't exactly a slam dunk despite Meredith's prodigious and kinky sexual appetites. When she is contacted by an exiled member of the Seelie Court, Meredith learns that there is a reason for the infertility that affects the lands of magic--a reason that the King of the Seelie Court will gladly kill--or worse--to prevent from becoming public.<br />Meredith is under attack both from her cousin and rival Cor in the Unseelie Court and from King Taranis of the Seelie Court. Her alliance with the Goblins is halfway toward its expiration and may expire a lot more quickly if Meredith doesn't take action to preserve it. Worse, the ancient and evil magics that have been suppressed by both Seelie and Unseelie Courts is once again awake and walking in the human world. For Meredith to survive long enough to have a chance at fertility, she must gather her alliances, make her bodyguards truly members of her court rather than rivals for power, and walk the tightrope between weakness and a lust for control.<br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton deepens the character of Meredith (who first appeared in her novel A KISS OF SHADOWS) as well as the complex political struggle between the humans, Seelie, Unseelie, Meredith, and the darker forces of magic. A CARESS OF TWILIGHT delivers plenty of the kinky sex that Hamilton novels are known for, but also reveals interesting and compelling characters.<br />Hamilton fans will be overjoyed at this fine novel. Although the enjoyment of TWILIGHT will be enhanced by reading SHADOWS, the novel stands on its own. Hamilton's writing style continues to mature and TWILIGHT is compelling and hard to put down.	2002-06-26
1499138:US	49115690	RIRYFBDHBIH6Y	0312857977	338158170	Cat in a Midnight Choir: A Midnight Louie Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Superior Midnight Louie	Midnight Louie, a black cat and private detective, intends to help his 'roommate' find the killers who have littered Las Vegas with their victims. With the sometimes doubtful assistance of his 'daughter,' and with support from the big cats who work with a Vegas magician, Louie manages to track down some clues--but will Temple Barr and her erstwhile lover Max Kinsella be able to put them together. And in the meantime, will ex-priest Matt Devine ever make a move on Temple, or any woman. And will cop C. R. Molina get off Max's case for long enough to determine what is really happening in Vegas?<br />Author Carole Nelson Douglas's \\"Cat\\" stories deliver a multivolume mystery with the loose ends in one story continuing on into the next. In CAT IN A MIDNIGHT CHOIR, some of the threads start to pull together. A mysterious 13th sign of the zodiac points the way at something more potent than high-school occult and the stripper-killer finally gets his come-uppance, but the deeper mysteries remain unsolved. Indeed, ex-terrorist and crazy woman Kathleen O'Connor (aka Kitty the Cutter) is more dangerous than ever in her attempts to make Matt abandon his most deeply felt beliefs.<br />Fans of the Midnight Louie series will be overjoyed to see this addition to the corpus--and CAT IN A MIDNIGHT CHOIR is a good one, moving forward the extended plot, providing its own nuggets of mystery, and presenting lots of Carole Nelson Douglas's quips and wry insights into humanity (only sometimes as seen from the cat's eye). For those not yet exposed to the series, it might make sense to start with the earlier novels as CHOIR is very much a (superior) middle book.	2002-06-24
1499677:US	49115690	R3VNI8OWZON6F9	0061050938	458611053	Schild's Ladder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing science & futures	When a physics experiment goes horribly wrong, scientists are confronted with something like a big bang--a universe expanding within our own universe. As it expands at half light speed, the new universe snuffs out sun after sun, human-supporting planet after human-supporting planet. Not that this means that billions of people die--all are evacuated. At least for now. Aboard the research ship Rindler, two parties have emerged. One wishes to destroy the new universe before it destroys our own. The other calls for more research and wonders whether this new universe might not hold something unique and wonderful.<br />Author Greg Egan combines an ecological tale with an intriguing look into speculative physics and an examination of the sociology of people who never need die, yet who can only travel across the distances of space by permanently cutting the social ties that bind them in place. Each of these is interesting in its own right and the three together make for a truly fascinating read.<br />Egan attempts to personalize the tale by reuniting two lovers--who last met four thousand years in the past. One is now dedicated to the destruction of the new universe--the other hopes to study and learn from it. To a certain extent, the attempt is successful. Certainly having point of view characters adds a great deal to the novel. Still, the story is not one of people (or even of the post-human beings that populate the novel), instead it is one of ideas.<br />Fans of hard speculative fiction will find SCHILD'S LADDER an essential addition to their libraries.	2002-06-24
1499703:US	49115690	R2TIIFA2DK63JP	0671578502	672077980	A Boy And His Tank	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Light and human military SF	New Kashubia is a planet of almost pure wealth. When its star went nova, the lighter elements were blown away leaving a complete planet of molten metal--which then cooled in neat layers. New Kashubia is a miner's delight, an industrialist's best dream, and the worst possible nightmare for any colonists unlucky enough to be sent there. With no oxygen, no hydrogen, no organic chemicals, essentially nothing to support life, the Kashubian population is condemned to slowly starve--while living in their gold-lined caves. When they discover that the industrialists left a vast array of military equipment, the Kashubians see a ray of hope--they can become mercenaries, exchanging their equipment and soldiers for the organics they require. Of course, without enough volunteers, it is tempting to resort to stripping the prisons--hence tank operator Mickolai.<br />The warring clans of the former Yugoslavia form ideal targets for mercenaries. The Kashubians sell their services to all sides and prepare for a friendly time with plenty of shooting and no casualties. Unfortunately for their plans, the Serbians discover that the divisions they paid for are severely undermanned and take over the largely automated tanks themselves. As a result, the hoped-for cake walk turns into real battle.<br />Author Leo Frankowski follows the tradition of Robert Heinlein more than that of David Drake with a personal adventure and coming of age story--yet he certainly doesn't neglect the battles. Frankowski's descriptions of the future tanks is a reasonable extrapolation from modern trends, which makes his story more compelling and interesting.<br />I did think that Mickolai's relationship with Kasia went a little too easily and the romantic conflict between the tank, the boy, and the girl could have been more fully developed, but this is a small quibble. A BOY AND HIS TANK is fun light reading.	2002-06-24
1501452:US	49115690	R2CH3481HQ696A	0765303663	340488847	Spaceland: A Novel of the Fourth Dimension	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Nice mix of math with humor and saving the universe	Joe Cube's marriage is in trouble and he's frustrated with his life. On the turn of the Y-2-K, none of his fantasies of disaster are coming true. What does happen, however, is even weirder. A fourth dimension woman slides into his life, gives him a fourth dimension skin and a third eye at right angles to the three dimensions of \\"spaceland\\" and sets him up with a can't lose business opportunity--cellphones that can communicate without interference by transfering their messages through fourth dimension space. Even with his marriage down the tubes, Joe thinks he is on something. Better, with his third eye, he can see the upcoming cards in Las Vegas blackjack. The opportunities are without limit.<br />Joe soon learns that the fourth dimensional actors are far from united. The three dimensional Spaceland of normal space separates two fourth dimension universes that would war on one another if the Spaceland barrier were to vanish. Meanwhile, back on earth, Joe is having trouble finding another woman, and gangsters are after him.<br />Author Rudy Rucker has created a light and fun novel with a bit of a message, a bit of math, and some intriguing drawings of Flatland space and linear space. Joe, with his worries about his marriage and women, his dreams of making millions in an IPO, and his increasing addiction to a fourth dimension drug makes a sympathetic anti-hero who is finally given a chance to save the universe--and trundled off to jail for doing so.<br />SPACELAND is a thought-provoking and amusing tale with a bit of a slanted--maybe even fourth dimension--moral to it.	2002-06-22
1502386:US	49115690	RII5UFFJ714LS	0312288239	834980772	Face Down Across the Western Sea	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good characters and history	The Spanish have pulled untold wealth from the Americas and have prevented the English from doing the same. In response, Queen Elizabeth has tasked Susanna, Lady Appleton and her friend Sir Walter Pendennis to lead a research team to discover some valid English claim to have discovered the Americas before Columbus. The pickings seem slim, but when one of the researchers is murdered, Susanna wonders whether the Spanish have discovered their mission--and have taken steps to prevent success.<br />Susanna and Walter investigate the unlikely suspects--a small group of aging scholars from Cambridge and Oxford Universities. Yet what possible motives would they have for murder, and why would any of them be interested in supporting the Spanish claims? Still, there is definitely something going on beneath the surface--one of the scholars has been sneaking out of the manor at night and another has a daughter who has ended up in places a young and single woman shouldn't go.<br />Author Kathy Lynn Emerson writes convincingly about this critical period in English history. Elizabeth holds the crown but is surrounded by enemies abroad and by Catholic and extreme protestant enemies at home. Emerson personalizes the mystery making both Susanna and Walter fully developed characters with conflicted desires and motivations that go far beyond simply solving a crime.<br />Unfortunately for the novel, Susanna and Walter's personal lives are more interesting than, and not especially connected to the mystery itself. Indeed, the solution to the mystery comes as something of an anticlimax, not resolving the fundamental issues or advancing the personal goals of either primary character. FACE DOWN ACROSS THE WESTERN SEA is a pleasant read and contains intriguing history and historical speculation. Pretty good.	2002-06-21
1504823:US	49115690	R3M62DUTP88RL	039914840X	818968546	Three Fates	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Exciting suspense--not Nora Roberts compelling	Years before, their ancester had stolen a small silver statue of one of the three fates. Now, an unscrupulous antiques dealer has seduced one of the three Sullivan siblings and stolen the treasure from him. Malachi, Gideon, and Rebecca swear to get the fate back--and to find the other missing statues in the set. Together, the fates are incredibly valuable and can even, the rumors say, grant wishes. But where, after being missing for decades, could the other two statues be, and how can the Sullivans retrieve their missing property given their own doubtful claim?<br />Author Nora Roberts always writes a compelling and emotional story and THREE FATES is no exception. The three Sullivan siblings are intent on their goal, willing to lie and cheat to succeed, but each time they lie, they get into deeper trouble with the true loves that they discover during the course of their adventure.<br />After linking up with a mythology expert who happens to be the descendent of the man from whom their ancestor stole the first fate, a stripper who owns the second, and a security expert whose great grandfather owns the third, the Sullivans are finally ready to make their move. But evil Anita Gaye is also on the trail of the statues she doesn't already own--and she's willing to do anything to get them. It will take a clever plan indeed--like something out of THE STING--to trip Anita up.<br />THREE FATES is an exciting adventure with Roberts' patented sensuality, but it falls short of many of this fine author's other works. First, the Sullivan's ethical or legal claim to the statue they covet is certainly suspect--why, after all, hadn't they attempted to return it to its rightful owner during the decades it had been in their family posession. Second, their scheme to eliminate Anita as a threat seems to me to make them morally little better than she is. Third, the idea of six capable and intelligent people combining to squash a single woman, however evil, seems something short of heroic.<br />I enjoyed reading THREE FATES and would certainly recommend it--but I couldn't help thinking as I read it that Roberts has missed a chance to write something truly superior and slipped back into something merely satisfying.ic. <br />I enjoyed reading THREE FATES and would certainly recommend it--but I couldn't help thinking as I read it that Roberts has missed a chance to write something truly superior and slipped back into something merely satisfying.	2002-06-19
1504832:US	49115690	R1BLHQOMOL23LD	0312878761	460285222	Mindworlds	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Intriguing world--confused action	Man has met alien species in space, but greed, corporate corruption, and violence have not been overcome. Even within the Lyhhrt race of telepaths, the theoretical unity of the species is incomplete and factions battle for power.<br />GalFed agent Ned Gattes learns of a proposed invasion and arranges to join the mercenaries being assembled. Assisted by his cybernetic-psychic friend Spartakos and a Lyhhrt, he infiltrates the mercenary training base--but then finds himself trapped within a plot to kill everyone including himself. Hasso, a noted archivist, finds himself fascinated by a woman being held captive by her new husband. And Lyhhrt agents battle amongst themselves to recover remnants of the power of the fallen corporation Zamos--maker of clones.<br />Author Phyllis Gotlieb puts together a powerfully intriguing set of worlds, peoples, and powers, yet somehow fails to deliver a complete story. Although much is at stake, the novel's emotional intensity falls flat. Until relatively late in the novel, none of the characters seems to have a truly personal stake in the outcome of the battle. Gotlieb's frequent scene shifts end up distracting the reader and make it difficult to follow the plot thread.	2002-06-19
1507041:US	49115690	RVCRNIL0VBWAP	0312262493	463958251	Blue Suede Clues: A Murder Mystery Featuring Elvis Presley	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Convincing Elvis as a detective	t's 1963 and Elvis Presley is so bored with movie-making that when he gets a letter from a convict claiming his innocence, Elvis decides to check things out. What Elvis finds is a Hollywood full of wanna-be stars, each willing to do anything to make it big--anything including murder. The ex-stunt man, Squirm Littlejon might not have killed his prostitute girlfriend, but he certainly did make some powerful enemies. Enemies that wouldn't stop at killing him--and destroying Elvis--to protect their secrets.<br />Author Daniel Klein does a convincing job making Elvis both believable as a detective and likable as a person. It is amusing to think of Elvis rolling around Los Angeles in the early 1960s, solving crimes and trying to decide where to take his life. Klein adds enough topical references to satisfy the Elvis buff and to educate non-fans on this intriguing and conflicted character.<br />With a title like BLUE SUEDE CLUES and with Elvis as detective, I was expecting something funny but, while there are definitely some light moments, for the most part, Klein plays it straight. Elvis battles pain from a sprained ankle with too much codeine, risks his life, witnesses murder and suicide, and sinks deep into a world of blackmail, prostitution, and murder. Klein's smooth writing keeps the plot moving forward and hold's the reader's attention.	2002-06-17
1508579:US	49115690	R6UIBZ7N5AGA7	0312878885	355689687	Starman (The Wayfarer Redemption, Book 3)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Woman magicians save the world	The world of Tencendor labors under the weight of a foreign and destructive god and a prophesy that foretells a battle between the Starman and the Destroyer. In this third volume of the WAYFARER REDEMPTION, Gorgrael, the destroyer, is prepared to loose vast armies of his ghost-like soldiers protected by increasing hordes of Griffens--mythical creatures of death and destruction. Against these, Axis, the Starman, has only the battered remnants of an army that has already been asked to do too much, and two women who love him. When the ancient plow-god Artor decides to take personal responsibility for the destruction of one of those two women, Axis's chances to fulfill the prophesy look grim.<br />Although this novel is entitled STARMAN, it is truly about the two women who love Axis and thier struggles to deal with a world that has brought them more pain than pleasure. Faraday, the woman Axis loved and Azhure, Axis's wife, must come to terms with their own power--and with the rivalry that their love for Axis, and Axis's unwillingness to tell the truth, created.<br />Author Sara Douglass is at her best when she deals with the emotional entanglements between lovers--and these emotional entanglements drive the entire novel. The battle scenes lack much substance and the magic system, while interesting, remains largely unexplored as a major plot element.<br />I was uncomfortable with Axis's and Azhure's genocidal elimination of the Skraelings, and more uncomfortable with the ambiguous relationship between parent and child. I thought that neither Axis nor Azhure showed appropriate tenderness toward their own children, let alone toward Axis's expected brother. Indeed, this last element of the novel added little other than making the primary characters less sympathetic.<br />STARMAN is the final volume of an interesting and powerful series. Douglass's world-building is first-rate and her emotional development is rich. Fans of her earlier novels will find STARMAN to be a satisfying conclusion to this epic tale. The novel should probably be read as part of the series rather than as a stand-alone.isfying conclusion to this epic tale. The novel should probably be read as part of the series rather than as a stand-alone.	2002-06-15
1509929:US	49115690	R2XRJ6ME5DEQZ	0312290349	233652662	Dead Crowd: A Mystery Starring Biff Kincaid	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best yet in Stand-up comedy series	When stand-up comic Biff Kincaid shows up to collect his pay, he finds the club manager stabbed and dying, and is then knocked unconscious. Yet the manager had hinted at real money and had told Biff about an secret video of a prison comedy routine that had lead to a prison riot and to two prisoners escaping. Biff isn't much of a detective but he is the best comic on the case--and his instincts tell him that only someone who understands the underworld of comedians will be able to get to the bottom of the murder--and make sure that Biff's next run-in with the killer doesn't end up as something worse than a lump on his head.<br />Biff's investigations lead him through Los Angeles's comedy clubs, into its television studios, and into a world of voodoo and dangerous prisoners (one of whom really thinks he can do comedy). A Biff Kincaid mystery wouldn't be complete without a romantic entanglement and DEAD CROWD delivers on this requirement as well. Biff gradually learns the truth, but can he stay alive long enough to share what he learns with the police?<br />Author Dan Barton has shown increasing maturity as the Biff Kincaid series progresses and DEAD CROWD is the best yet. Although it doesn't delve as deeply into the world of the stand-up comic as do some of the earlier novels in the series, DEAD CROWD develops a more sophisticated Biff Kincaid and a somewhat more convincing adventure line. As with the earlier novels, Barton's background as a stand-up comic shows through and enhances the reading experience.<br />Best yet in an enjoyable series.	2002-06-14
1511605:US	49115690	R1V9A7OGMRPEZY	0380978857	21652145	The Golden One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful Egypt Adventure	Emerson and Amelia Peabody have a new archeological dig, Ramses is overjoyed with his wife, and Amelia's adoptive family continues to grow, but all is not well in World War I era Egypt. Tomb robbers have discovered an ancient temple and are sneaking artifacts out, and are willing to kill Emerson and Amelia to preserve their treasure. The British army has bogged down outside of Gaza and its intelligence community desperately wishes to get Ramese back in the fold. And somehow, Amelia has to manage all of this while hoping that she will soon become a grandmother. Naturally, Sethos--Emerson's half brother and something of a love interest for Amelia is back and in the midst of both tomb robbing and the war. <br />Author Elizabeth Peters has created a wonderful set of characters in the extended Emerson family. Emerson's bull-headedness, Ramses's honor, Sethos's deviousness and overcompensated inferiority complex, and Amelia's proper British manipulativeness all ring true and consistent through the novel and, indeed, through the series. THE GOLDEN ONE does not integrate World War I with the archeological elements of the story as well as some of the earlier novels in the series (perhaps because the Turks have been driven further from Egypt), but is otherwise a delightful adventure. <br />Readers new to this series may find Amelia's proper Britishisms somewhat off-putting but; for me at least, these have become familiar friends and amusing reminders of a time when the British really thought that they had a great moral lesson to share with the world. Peters certainly knows her Egypt and makes this great period of Archeology and Egyptology come to life.	2002-06-12
1512464:US	49115690	R2WV52T9D5FM08	0380978857	21652145	The Golden One	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Delightful Egypt Adventure	Emerson and Amelia Peabody have a new archeological dig, Ramses is overjoyed with his wife, and Amelia's adoptive family continues to grow, but all is not well in World War I era Egypt. Tomb robbers have discovered an ancient temple and are sneaking artifacts out, and are willing to kill Emerson and Amelia to preserve their treasure. The British army has bogged down outside of Gaza and its intelligence community desperately wishes to get Ramese back in the fold. And somehow, Amelia has to manage all of this while hoping that she will soon become a grandmother. Naturally, Sethos--Emerson's half brother and something of a love interest for Amelia is back and in the midst of both tomb robbing and the war.<br />Author Elizabeth Peters has created a wonderful set of characters in the extended Emerson family. Emerson's bull-headedness, Ramses's honor, Sethos's deviousness and overcompensated inferiority complex, and Amelia's proper British manipulativeness all ring true and consistent through the novel and, indeed, through the series. THE GOLDEN ONE does not integrate World War I with the archeological elements of the story as well as some of the earlier novels in the series (perhaps because the Turks have been driven further from Egypt), but is otherwise a delightful adventure.<br />Readers new to this series may find Amelia's proper Britishisms somewhat off-putting but; for me at least, these have become familiar friends and amusing reminders of a time when the British really thought that they had a great moral lesson to share with the world. Peters certainly knows her Egypt and makes this great period of Archeology and Egyptology come to life.	2002-06-12
1515778:US	49115690	R2DTL82VHLVIVL	031226139X	343440294	Habeas Campus	Books	2	2	2	N	N	running around with voodoo	When a professor finds voodoo warnings in his office, he calls in private detective Angela Matelli to pose as a student and find the truth. Are the warnings really a gag, or are there real zombies within the ivy walls of his Vermont college? Once at Hartmore College, Angela finds that almost everyone she comes in contact with has been in Haiti and had some contact with the voodoo religion. And tensions are high among them. Somehow, Angela has to cut through the clutter and find the truth--and manage to avoid becoming a zombie herself.<br />Author Wendi Lee writes with an engagingly light style. Angela, with her overprotective mother and marine background makes for an attractive protagonist. The story itself, however, may be a little too light for real mystery fans. Although everyone has been to Haiti, sorting through the suspects shouldn't be so easy.<br />HABEAS CAMPUS is enjoyable light reading but is unlikely to stick with you for long.	2002-06-08
1516136:US	49115690	R23FTGQUQJAML2	0671578723	259615353	Destiny's Shield (Belisarius)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another fine book in a great series	The long expected Malwa invasion of Persia has finally struck and the Persians turn to their ancient enemies, the Byzantine Romans, for help. The ex-Emperor Justinian convinces Theodora to send Constantinople's greatest general--perhaps the greatest general in the history of the world--Belesarius to help. With only ten thousand soldiers, Belisarius will have to work a miracle to survive, let alone defeat the hordes of Malwa arriving from India. Fortunately, Belisarius has been planning a miracle for some time now. The stakes are high. The Malwa are led by Link--an intelligent artifact sent from the future with the goal of eliminating any notion of talent or freedom from the planet.<br />Belisarius defeats a raiding Malwa cavalry force as he approaches ancient Babylon where the Persian Emperor is beseiged. In the meantime, his Indian ally, Shakuntala, has begun her own campaign against the Malwa occupation of most of India. Belisarius's wife, Antonia is sent to Alexandria to reassert Roman Imperial authority (as was often the case in historical Byzantine Egypt, religious disputes threaten Roman rule) and to create an arsenal for her husband and Shakuntala--and the nucleus for a new front against the huge Malwa armies.<br />Authors Eric Flint and David Drake again combine in this third novel in the Belisarius series. Flint and Drake deliver a powerful mix of military fantasy (what would Belisarius have done if he had access to effective gunpowder-based weapons), pure tactics, and touches of real historical research.<br />Even with the greatest general of history, the defeat of a super-intelligent artifact seems a little too easy and occasional modern themes creep in (would holy men like Michael really have been quite so broad-minded about the various Christian faiths at war with one another, and would Anthonia really have so actively worked to protect the Jews of Alexandria?) but that is largely quibbling. DESTINY'S SHIELD makes for a compelling and page-turning (or scroll-bar clicking) read.r scroll-bar clicking) read.	2002-06-08
1517129:US	49115690	R1YZL7LEP0JUOQ	0749005912	187900577	The Nightwalker: An Eric Ward Mystery (Eric Ward Mysteries)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Down and out in north England	With his marriage in trouble, lawyer Eric Ward has thrown himself into his job. He's good at what he does but some of his current cases don't look promising. The owners of a toxic waste dump are willing to talk settlement, but the leader of the neighborhood group Eric is representing wants revenge for his son's illness. The muckraking dumpster-diver is holding out for vindication rather than the slap on the wrist that he could get. Finally, a newspaperman comes to him with rumors about insurance fraud involving the man Eric suspects has taken up with his wife. When one of his clients is killed and another suspected of the murder, Eric's life gets more complicated in a hurry.<br />Author Roy Lewis switches between Eric's point of view and that of DCI Charlie Spate. Spate is working the cases for the police and hopes to pin something on a mobster who has his hands in both prostitution and drugs in the northern England city of Tyne. Spate has problems of his own--having been drummed out of the Met and suffering from an acute case of lust for one of his female detectives. Neither man trusts the other and both insist on working the case from their own angles.<br />THE NIGHTWALKER is an interesting mystery filled with characters with histories, pains, and goals that are certain to be frustrated. Unfortunately, Lewis doesn't completely deliver on the potential of his characters or the story. Eric and Spate both seem too beaten by the world to fight back with all of their force--and often seem to approach the mystery with that same attitude.	2002-06-07
1519511:US	49115690	R13T8DYUSW59I5	1569472785	642465093	Murder in the Sentier (Aimee Leduc Investigations, No. 3)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Slam-bam action in Paris	A woman, a stranger, calls on detective Aimee Leduc with a strange story. She was Aimee's cellmate and can tell Aimee of her long-lost mother--but she demands money for her information. When Aimee shows up with the money, she finds the woman has been murdered. Desperate to find word of her mother, Aimee plunges into an investigation of the revolutionary terrorists of the 1970s--a circle that included her mother.<br />Aimee's search takes her through the depths of the Sentier district of Paris--still home to the remnants of the 1970s radical movement, socialist intellectuals, prostitutes, sweatshops, and the police. Walking a narrow line between law and unlawfulness, Aimee discovers evidence that something is being hidden--something beyond the memories of aging radicals.<br />Author Cara Black keeps Aimee in constant motion, rushing from one scene to the next, calling in favors from an intriguing variety of friends, toying with romance as she fights her craving for cigarettes. Aimee gains sympathy as she searches for her mother and tries to clear her father's name from the hints that he had become a dirty cop.<br />Although Black is an American author, her Paris feels terribly authentic. I would, however, have liked to see a little more cleverness on the part of Aimee. Her constant rushing about sometimes seemed to come at the cost of a bit of reflection--reflection which would have given Aimee insights into what she was doing and the reader a chance to internalize the action. The slam-bam action occasionally felt more like a movie script than a novel.	2002-06-05
1521857:US	49115690	R15CJMAJEP0VN4	0765301687	941263210	Dark Ararat (Emortality)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fascinating science, so-so characters, clunky dialogue	Matthew Fleury had been a prophet of Earth's destruction and the need to flee to the stars to seek a new earth--one that humanity had not destroyed and where mankind could form a new home. As prophet and ecologist, he had been allowed to join mankind's first exploration of extra-solar space. When he awakens hundreds of years after departure, he finds that the ship has found a new world, but the world is not exactly an earth-clone. He is awakened because his counterpart, the ships other ecologist, has been killed--possibly by humanoid aliens.<br />Matthew's search for truth on this strange planet makes up the bulk of the novel. Author Brian Stableford  manages hard science fiction with a vengence. The novel is full of information about DNA, evolution, and possible ways that evolution could have gone differently. And on Ararat, it certainly did evolve differently without using DNA.<br />Characters are certainly not Stableford's strong point--and Matthew never really seems to have the motivation and drive to be both a prophet of the old world's end or of a new beginning for this new earth. With paragraph after paragraph of clunky dialogue, I sometimes found myself wishing that Stableford had internalized the old writer's cliche about showing-not-telling. Still, the subject matter of DARK ARARAT and the obvious importance of both first contact and what Stableford refers to as emortality make this novel worth reading--and worth reflecting upon.	2002-06-03
1524735:US	49115690	R35XDBB72VNLY2	0743435338	531654219	Diplomatic Immunity	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great adventure--Miles is back	While coming back from his honeymoon, Miles Vorkosigan gets word of a diplomatic crisis involving Barrayaran soldiers attacking civilians, quadie kidnapping of a Barrayaran pilot, and the possible murder of an intelligence officer. Bringing his new wife with him, Miles is quick to begin an investigation but finds the truth difficult to unravel. There appears to be a Cetagandan entanglement--and the Cetagandans are Barrayar's long-time rivals and former invaders. Yet even that doesn't make sense. When Miles is attacked and almost assassinated, the crisis moves from a mere diplomatic difficulty to near-war--a war that Miles desparately works to head off.<br />Author Lois McMaster Bujold delivers a powerful mix of fast-paced adventure, intellectual challenge, and emotional depth. Over the course of a dozen or so novels, Miles has evolved from a cocky teen with a huge inferiority complex to a sophisticated but still vulnerable adult man. He still has that urge to solve the world's problems by himself, but he is no longer quite so hot-headed about it. Naturally that doesn't keep him from nearly getting killed again. As always, the women in Miles' life manage to mediate his worst mistakes and give him at least a chance to survive his impulses.<br />After the slower-paced A CIVIL CAMPAIGN, Vorkosigan fans will welcome back the more active and hard-charging Miles. For me, the hint that Miles may intend to reduce his adventuring is a serious threat--come on, Bujold, we want to see Miles in action.	2002-05-31
1526941:US	49115690	R2L1OH42F981SC	0671876627	386267448	Doc Sidhe	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fun reading--Harris Green is a good active character	Harris Green has hit bottom. His career as a professional kickboxer has gone nowhere, his girlfriend Gwen has dumped him, and he is as drunk as he can be. He comes up with the bright idea of talking Gwen into taking him back and arrives at her apartment just in time to see her being kidnapped. Harris's kickboxing might not be good enough to make him rich but its plenty to take on a couple of low-budget hoods with his girl. What he doesn't expect is that the kidnapping would leave him in a portal between our own world and the fair world--a place where magic works but where good and evil still battle.<br />The grim world of common humanity and the fair world are tied together and sometimes share people and ideas. But someone is tampering with the ties in an attempt to gain control of both worlds. Only Doc Sidhe and his Sidhe Foundation stand in their way. Harris joins up with a reluctant Doc when he finds that Gwen is one of the keys. Through a series of adventures, the two males learn to appreciate one another--but can they survive the showdown with the masters of evil magic?<br />Author Aaron Allston delivers a well written and fast paced fantasy adventure. With using both Irish/British legend and modern technology, Allston's parallel world construction is convincing and interesting. Harris is a fully motivated character with both flaws and goals. Harris drives the plot forward as his experience in both grim and fair worlds teaches him to be a full man.	2002-05-29
1528010:US	49115690	R1PYBE53QKQGV0	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Chee and Leaphorn are back--'nuf said	When Officer Bernadette Manuelito of the Navajo police finds a truck with a body in it, she suspects natural causes--and ends up in big trouble with the FBI. Her boss Sergeant Jim Chee and his friend retired Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn decide to investigate, especially since the case seems related to an old 'closed' case that never felt right to Leaphorn. In a powerful mixture of native American culture and modern police work, all three track down evidence of an old gold mine, a wailing woman, and confidence man tricks.<br />Author Tony Hillerman is at his best when writing about Leaphorn and Chee. Both men are memorable characters, trying to find balance in their lives, dealing with difficult relatives, difficult FBI agents, and the difficult blend of cultures that represents the culture that they live in and love.<br />As always, the bleak desert landscapes of the southwestern Navajo Indian Reservation forms both a backdrop and a virtual character in this story. Without an understanding of the country, nature, and man's relationship with nature, Chee, Bernadette, and Leaphorn cannot hope to solve the mystery--but with them, they run the risk of being dismissed by the FBI or falling into a trap set by a ruthless killer.<br />This may not be the best Tony Hillerman book out (my personal favorite was COYOTE WAITS) but even pretty good Hillerman is excellent.	2002-05-29
1529220:US	49115690	R2OO8QY0REW554	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well written novel deals with character self-destruction	Elissa Laughlin struggles through life with the certainty that she will fail and a wish to avoid making the fatal decision that will lead to her failure. She'll even accept unhappiness if it lets her retain the dream that happiness could have been possible. Her ultimate fear is the discovery that her dreams were unattainable (and not simply unattained) and that her entire life was pointless. In her aggressive pursuit of this absence, Elissa offends the members of her law firm, engages in a tempestuous and ultimately destructive relationship with a lover, and bickers with her family without quite being able to forgive them for being less than her dreams.<br />Author D. B. Smith is a powerful new writer who can make his anti-heroic protagonist and her struggle seem sympathetic (although sometimes that sympathy is mixed with an active desire to shake Elissa out of her self-destructive behaviors). I would have liked to have more understanding of why lover Warren put up with her for as long as he did--did he share a different variety of Elissa's self-destructiveness, however. Although Warren was presented as an active and decisive man, his willingness to accept so much of Elissa's abuse makes him seem whimpy.<br />AN INEXQUISITE EYE is thought-provoking and powerful. It may hold some of the angst that more mature authors outgrow, but is certainly written with a mature and elegant hand.	2002-05-28
1538389:US	49115690	R3ATZAZSZORTUO	0786710187	440760121	Streets on Fire: A Jack Liffey Mystery	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Emotionally gripping adventure	When a young interracial couple vanishes, private detective Jack Liffey is hired to investigate. It isn't a good time for Jack--he's worried about his girlfriend and his daughter, and it isn't a good time for Los Angeles, racked by racial tension and riot, but Liffey goes to work. The police and even the FBI have muddied the waters but the missing man's niece gives him his biggest clue. Now if Liffey can stay along long enough, he may learn the truth. Unfortunately for him, staying alive is difficult when a well armed and determined group of Christian extremists are after you.<br />Author John Shannon delivers an emotionally compelling and satisfying mystery. Liffey's attempts at detection are bounded at one side by his daughter's attempts to help--which end up creating any father's ultimate nightmare--and at the other by the riots that threaten to send Los Angeles into flames. Clinging to his much abused moral code, Liffey must survive both white extremists and African-American gang bangers.<br />Shannon brings a left-wing slant to his writing, but this doesn't keep him from delivering an exciting and fast-paced adventure.	2002-05-20
1540636:US	49115690	R21XO8O6V53WPO	0312278381	26307489	The Wooden Leg of Inspector Anders	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One man against the Mafia in southern Italy--excellent	Inspector Anders seems like the perfect man to complete the investigation of a southern Italian crime. He is a hero having lost a leg in Italy's battle against the Red Brigade, but he is also nearing retirement--unlikely to rock the boat. And rocking the boat is the last thing the establishment wants. It is much better to imagine that anarchists murdered the former judge than to admit that the Mafia and corruption rule southern Italy and can reach its power to the capitol in Rome and beyond. Anders is mostly content to go along--but he toys with the idea of doing more: of making a real investigation. If he does, though, he is unlikely to survive long enough to tell his story, let alone make a difference. The next inspector is unlikely to be so foolish.<br />As Anders goes through the motions of an investigation, he grows increasingly angry with the power of the Mafia, but also increasingly certain that he cannot make a difference. Yet even going through the motions can be dangerous and letting himself be swayed by the late judge's beautiful widow is clearly a mistake.<br />Author Marchall Browne writes a compelling adventure. Anders, with his wooden leg and perchant for older soft-bodied women and fine wine, makes an interesting and sympathetic hero. Browne's view of the Mafia as the dominant force in much of southern Italy is sadly credible and Ander's ultimate decision between pursuing his life's dream and doing something, however pointless, to damage the Mafia is emotionally satisfying.<br />I look forward to reading more novels by this talented author.	2002-05-17
1543432:US	49115690	R1A2JCRVR94OFP	078686804X	84738703	Black Water	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Police procedure with real emotional impact--great	Homocide Sergeant Merci Rayborn has screwed up before--let made the wrong call in the battle between her emotions and her logic--and she swears she isn't going to in this case. The evidence looks compelling. A local sheriff's deputy is found with a gun in his hand, a bullet in his skull, and a dead wife in his house shot with that gun. Add in a recent fight and a spending pattern that a deputy's pay could never support and it's a clear murder-suicide. Except that Merci thinks that something is wrong. But then, can she even trust her judgement?<br />Author T. Jefferson Parker does a great job on the details of police procedure, making ordinary detection compelling. Where he really stands out, however, is in his development of character and character emotion. Merci Rayborn, in her third novel, is no longer the young innocent of THE BLUE HOUR. She still believes in what she is doing, but she is no longer so sure of where she is going. BLACK WATER delves deeply into her angst and is somehow more powerful but also more exciting because of it. Archie Wildcraft, the wounded Deputy, is also powerfully drawn as he battles with his loss of memory and especially the loss of feelings caused by brain trauma and the bullet that remains inside his skull.<br />BLACK WATER certainly stands alone and is a wonderful and powerful book. Fans of T. Jefferson Parker will be overjoyed to see Merci back--and rewarded for the wait. If you aren't familiar with this series, it would be worth a look to find the novels in order (the earlier novels, THE BLUE HOUR and RED LIGHT. Another excellent novel by an exciting novelist.	2002-05-15
1544658:US	49115690	R10P69ZVJCSXLV	0312288298	98164243	Murder in the Rough: A Sarah Deane Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Light but pleasant mystery--good Maine atmosphere	Recently retired from college life, John and Elspeth McKenzie move to a planned community in Maine where they can be near their son Alex and daughter in law Sarah. Neither counts on Sarah's uncanny ability to turn up bodies and, in fact, Sarah doesn't actually find the first body. Soon, however, she is involved, especially when Elspeth's expensive new bicycle is stolen and vanishes from the gated and guarded community.<br />More murders lead to police mystification and Sarah's increasingly desperate attempts to do something--anything--to come up with a solution. But not only are there no suspects--there aren't even any good motives. Both of the victims are habitual losers but, oddly enough, both are related to two of the families who have recently moved into the development.<br />Author J. S. Borthwick writes convincingly of Maine life and weather, and presents murder with a light touch. John and Elspeth, in particular, are engaging characters, each with their own foibles, uncertain about their decision to leave their old life and take up this new and organized one. MURDER IN THE ROUGH is light fluff, but it is enjoyable reading.	2002-05-14
1546428:US	49115690	R14KZZVGX9Q246	0345405633	95741719	Breakthroughs (The Great War, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Human version of alternative history	The south won the civil war (thanks to intervention from France and England) and the U.S. has longed for revenge. Now, allied with Germany in the First World War, it just may have its chance. Brutal trench warfare has bled both the north and south for years, but in Tennessee, General George Armstrong Custer has an original idea--what would happen if he massed his tanks rather than committing them piecemeal according to U.S. military doctrine? The result is the beginning of the end for the outnumbered confederacy. While successful in the south, the U.S. also pushes north against Canada and Britain, its resources near the breaking point already thanks to the German offensives in Europe, can do little to help its embattled Empire--or itself.<br />Author Harry Turtledove is something of a master of the alternative history. Using impressions from soldiers, civilians, sailors, politicians, and officers, Turtledove paints a picture of a believable and human story of war and its consequences. In this alternative history, the Republican party nearly vanished with the loss of the Civil War and socialism took its place as the second party. Red revolution, led by southern blacks, damaged the southern cause enough, at least that they could be blamed for the South's defeat (setting the stage for a World War II sequel with the CSA having its own version of Hitler blaming the defeat on anything the South itself.<br />More convincingly than Turtledove's fantasy retelling of actual history, his alternative histories work. Although it takes a while to get into the story (I was tempted to stop reading after the first hundred pages), the novel is finally rewarding. Turtledove gives an evenhanded and sympathetic account of the sufferings of war. It is easy to sympathize with the North's decision to impose Treaty of Versailles-like consequences on the South, and to sympathize as well with the Southerners who think only to prepare for the next battle.<br />Turtledove's mixture of historical and purely fictional characters is occasionally jarring, but makes for a more convincing story.ical and purely fictional characters is occasionally jarring, but makes for a more convincing story.	2002-05-12
1548268:US	49115690	R121CNGE8HWK2Z	0743435214	113340634	The Tyrant (Raj Whitehall)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Roman Republic in Space--interesting	Justicar Demansk knows that the ancient Confederation of Vanbert is rotten. Too many aristocrats cling to the privileges of their office, oppress the people their ancestors conquered, and battle for power. Yet, what alternative exists. To the north, a pirate kingdom threatens mayhem. To the south, barbarian tribes often raid but have never been able to stand up to the Vanbert legions. Now, though, the southern tribes are aided by Adrian Gellert--the father of Demansk's grandson and sworn enemy to Vanbert. Still, a barbarian invasion, even one with weapons from the stars, offers little help for a better life. Demansk decides that the only solution is to become a traitor to his own country--to destroy the ancient democracy/plutocracy and install himself as Tyrant.<br />Closely echoing the last days of the Roman Republic, THE TYRANT follows the paths of these two leaders as they bring their forces to bear on the aging Vanbert confederation. Modern gunpowder-based weapons give them an advantage, and Gellert's implanted intelligences give him insights into thousands of civilizations beyond the stars, yet can two men, however powerful and advantages, overthrow thousands of years of inertia?<br />Authors Eric Flint and David Drake deliver an exciting retelling of the last days of ancient Rome--with just enough twists to keep the reader interested. The battle sequences are well detailed and give an interesting view of how Republican-era Roman-style legions might have fared had they faced gunpowder-based weapons, or been equipped with them.<br />From a plot perspective, the inevitable alliance between Gellert and Demansk eliminated much of the uncertainty in the outcome. Armed with modern weapons, granted insight into social sciences far beyond those in their primative planet (or in Rome) and with a completely modern sense of Economics, Demansk and Gellert are virtually unstoppable. In contrast, Caesar had to face Pompey, a general as well equipped and with as great a reputation as Caesar's. Still, although the outcome is perhaps inevitable, Flint's writing keeps the reader glued to the page to see not what will happen, but how.utation as Caesar's. Still, although the outcome is perhaps inevitable, Flint's writing keeps the reader glued to the page to see not what will happen, but how.	2002-05-10
1548676:US	49115690	R2ATG4TJMQ3X3A	0064473414	592825229	Samantha and the Cowboy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sweet and compelling	Samantha Jane Reynolds knows it's her only chance to help her family survive the brutal years after the American Civil War. Even though it means sacrificing her hair and pretending to be a boy, she determines to join a cattle drive from Texas to Kansas, and Samantha becomes Sam. The hundred dollars pay could get them through the winter. Of course, if anyone finds out she's a girl in disguise, she'll be in serious trouble. Matthew Hart survived the Civil War, but many of the boys he led did not. He swears he'll never make a friend again, take responsibility for another again. Yet there's something sympathetic about the new kid, Sam. Sam can't help falling for the handsome cowboy, but she knows that when he discovers her lie, he'll never forgive her.<br />Bestselling and RITA winning author Lorraine Heath has written a charming young adult romance. 16-year-old Samantha comes of age and discovers feelings of attraction toward that special boy. Matthew is a convincingly damaged hero, aged beyond his 18 years by his wartime experience, and afraid to develop feelings again. Sam's mixed feelings about being a boy lighten the novel's touch. The adventure of the cattle drive and the dangers that Sam finds herself in, add spice to the sweet sensual tension between the two characters (especially once Matthew discovers Sam's secret).	2002-05-10
1548713:US	49115690	RAK5PZ082N6SA	0373272227	391801712	The Detective and the D. A. (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1152) (Intimate Moments, 1152)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting romantic suspense	Four years before, after they'd lost their child in a miscarriage, Kelly Whalen and Tony Ashcroft (Ash) divorced. Now, they are forced to work together on an old case--thrown out on appeal. When their bosses order them to pretend to be dating as an excuse to participate in Houston Texas's social scene, both soon realize that they may have left their marriage behind, but they haven't dealt with the sexual tension that sizzles between them. Both Kelly and Ash get uneasy feelings about the case--could the wrong man have been convicted? Yet to truly re-open the case will require them to spend even more time together. They find that they have to risk both physical harm and that even greater risk--their hearts.<br />Author Leann Harris delivers a page-turning mix of sexual tension and adventure. Although clues to the identity of the real killer soon emerge, finding enough evidence to convict is harder, and Harris does a fine job describing the investigation and the dangers that face her protagonists. Fans of romantic suspense may find that, like me, they couldn't stop reading until they had finished this fine novel.	2002-05-10
1549203:US	49115690	R26SS0GES1T8WJ	0843949961	818755476	Explaining Herself (Rancher's Daughters)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Charming heroine, wonderfully damaged hero	Ross Lawrence lives for the day that he can find the man who betrayed his sister and lynched his father and brother. That happened when he was a boy. Now he is a man, more dangerous than any lynch mob in Wyoming history. When her father hires Ross as a range detective, Victoria Garrison is intrigued. She has dreamed of being a star reporter rather than merely a typesetter and Ross seems like the perfect story. He is, well, dangerous, but in a wonderful and, to Victoria, inexplicable way. The attraction blooms into something close to love, but Ross knows that he cannot love--especially as Victoria's father or brother might have been involved with the lynch mob--might have been the one who betrayed his sister.<br />Author Yvonne Jocks has created a pair of wonderful characters in Victoria and Ross. Victoria, in particular, is a funny, but completely convincing mix of innocence and sensual delight. Her insatiable curiosity and unselfconscious chattiness makes for a delightful counterpoint to the silent and damaged Ross. Yet their attraction seems doomed. Even if Ross could put aside the revenge he's lived his entire life for, what could an outlaw and gunman offer to the richest man in Sherman Wyoming's daughter?	2002-05-10
1553529:US	49115690	R16YEZ92C5WLL5	0312876343	370216473	Dark as Day (Cold As Ice Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great science, good characters. Very nice	Thirty years ago, the Belt Wars destroyed much of humanity. Now, humanity is digging its way out of the rubble, building new bases, reclaiming Mars and Earth from the destruction of war, and creating new and promising innovations in science and technology. Researcher Alex Ligon expects the power of the new computer will allow his predictive models to show where humanity is heading. When they tell him that humanity will be eliminated in less than a hundred years, he is shocked. Puzzle master Rustum (Bat) Battachariya thinks that a hundred years is optimistic. The rumored doomsday weapon from the war has never been found. Unless it is, Bat fears that humanity's destruction can come at any moment.<br />The arrival of a signal from non-human space sends the protagonists together. For Alex, alien intelligence may be the way out of the destruction his models show. For Bat, the alien message is an irresistable puzzle. Yet there are other intelligences at work--both living, dead, and computer. Humanity must survive the coming weeks if it is to have a chance to learn what secrets the alien message holds.<br />Author Charles Sheffield brings a realistic touch to the science in this science fiction novel. The SETI sequences, in particular, ring true while still being entertaining. His descriptions of the quirky characters who make up the plot is also enjoyable. I would have liked to see the salvation of the human species come from something other than blind luck but otherwise, DARK AS DAY is a powerful and enjoyable page turner.	2002-05-06
1553569:US	49115690	R3VSQVCL4PEHC3	0786866152	794126876	Mobtown: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dark and edgy--very nice	Private detective Van Savage pays the bills doing divorce work--dependable work in 1950s Rochester N.Y. where infidelity is common and as the modern age is being born. When a beautiful woman walks into his office with a story about her husband, Savage thinks it's more of the same. When she tells him that her husband is trying to kill her, as he's killed two previous wives, Savage is curious. When he finds out that the husband is the major figure in Rochester's mob, he knows he's in trouble.<br />Author Jack Kelly writes with a hard-hitting style that pays homage to the hard-boiled detectives of an earlier generation of mysteries while saying something fresh as well. His view of the 1950s as a time when the mob ruled, when honest cops were set up and destroyed, and when a day of hard work is followed by a night of hard drinking rings true. Savage is a sympathetic protagonist with family troubles and who just can't seem to stick to his own decision to keep his feelings out of what is going on.<br />A couple of coincidences bring together Savage's cases in ways that strain but don't break credibility but otherwise MOBTOWN is a small gem.	2002-05-06
1554169:US	49115690	R39B0GG5JTZXCE	0312271239	164264677	The Mummy's Ransom: A Ransom/Charters Mystery (Ransom/Charters Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pleasant and light--but it ends too quickly for impact	Louie Dolores strides over Chicago like the skyscrapers he builds. While he has built a formidable array of enemies by his law-skirting tactics and his lack of regard for the architectural history of his city, he has also built a fortune--some of he is using to bring in a set of ancient mummies from Chili which he plans to show in one of his own buildings. The protests outside don't bother Dolores--he'll use them for publicity. When the mummies inside seem to be coming to life, Dolores is quick to bring that to the newspapers as well. But is he too smart for his own good? When Dolores ends up murdered, a two-thousand-year-old mummy is the only suspect.<br />Police Detective Jeremy Ransom, along with his friend the elderly Miss Emily Charters is called to look into death threats against Dolores--threats that become horribly real. The two sleuths find that Dolores hadn't just made enemies, a whole range of people hated him and wanted him dead. Yet hatred isn't enough. Someone had to actually kill--and neither believe that one of the museum mummies really came back to life.<br />Author Fred Hunter uses a light touch to deal with a deadly subject. Hunter does a fine job depicting the destruction associated with murder--ruins of marriages, careers, and even sanity that extend far beyond the victim and perp.<br />I felt a little cheated by the end of the novel--which came too quickly to deliver the full impact of the solution but otherwise found THE MUMMY'S RANSOM to be quite enjoyable	2002-05-06
1556900:US	49115690	R214JAI85VHIQ6	0446678996	39969173	Vincalis the Agitator	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Strangely uncompelling--can't suspend disbelief	Wraith is born in the warrens, a strange halfway land where people barely live, unaware of their surroundings. When he escapes, he finds nearby cities filled with magic, art, and beautiful people. Yet a terrible secret sustains the magic of these cities--their spells depend on and consume the lives of those in the warrens--and the demands of the magic grow ever stronger. Wraith swears to end this oppression, to somehow change the system that holds so many in bondage for the joy of others.<br />As an adult, Wraith becomes an author and producer of plays that show the dangers of magic in an attempt to demonstrate the folly of the civilization he both admires and hates. Yet no society can survive for hundreds of years without its defenses. Wraith's growing popularity breeds suspicion against him. When the secret police swoop down, none of Wraith's defenses appear effective against such overwhelming force.<br />Author Holly Lisle has created a compelling magic system and culture of beauty, cruelty and reckless disregard for others. Although interesting, VINCALIS THE AGITATOR falls short in several key respects. Most importantly, it fails to grab the reader at an emotional level. Perhaps the mages are simply too evil to be credible. Too, Wraith's plot is so simplistic that it is difficult to believe that a halfway effective police force, let alone magic-dealing secret spies, wouldn't have shut it down in days.<br />Lisle's writing shows moments of inspiration, mixed with long narrative pages and with subplots (e.g., Faregan's plans to add Jess to his victim collection) that confuse without adding to the main narative or to the emotional intensity of the novel.	2002-05-03
1559289:US	49115690	R3SZ61OWZJ0EG7	0671023535	808900498	Prison Blues	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great psychology, fantastic action	When a former friend gets caught having sex with a prisoner, psychologist Michael Stone gets drafted to take over her group. Michael (although she has a man's name, Michael is definitely female) is eight months pregnant and has issues of her own, but she agrees to take the job partly to learn why her normally conservative friend could have made such a horrible mistake.<br />What she finds in the psychology group surprises and frightens her. Her friend insists that one of the inmates is innocent but Michael knows exactly the kind of manipulating disorder Jim Walker represents. The group isn't functioning right but that is the least of Michael's problems. She suspects that the group may also be involved in something more serious than corrupting the morals of a psychologist. Despite her pregnancy and the strongly urged advice of her baby's father, Michael decides she has to investigate.<br />Author Anna Salter obviously knows psychology and the mindset of deviant personalities. Even better, she combines this knowlege with a powerful story-telling sense to deliver a powerful and thrilling story. The more Michael investigates, the more loose ends turn up, and the farther into danger she falls. Salter weaves in multiple inter-related subplots involving the warden's family, a serial sex offender who the warden vows to protect from prison violence, and Michael's own issues with the loss of independence that a permanent relationship with a man and another with her baby have to represent.<br />Highly enjoyable--I couldn't put it down.	2002-05-01
1559929:US	49115690	RPJX3CKPNRYW7	0060199326	572504692	White Shell Woman: A Charlie Moon Mystery (Charlie Moon Mysteries)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Enjoyable mix of Indian shamanism and police procedure	Charlie Moon is retired from the Reservation Police but when murder strikes a beautiful Ute woman, he can't help being interested--especially when the tribal leaders ask him to return to work part time as a private investigator. Without the politics of the local police, he has an ideal situation--at least as far as work goes. As far as his ranch, his psychic aunt, and his love life go, things are not so great.<br />Legends of an ancient Anasazi treasure have haunted the Utes for years. Now someone is digging, disturbing the remains of buried Indians and the work of the archeologists trying to uncover the history of this region. Simply disturbing archeological sites is bad enough, but when one of the students is murdered, rumors start to spread about the ghosts of the Anasasi protecting their treasures and of a shape-shifter walking the ruins. Moon doesn't believe in shape-shifters--although his aunt certainly does. But when the uncle of the victim disappears leaving nothing but his clothes, his dentures, and a pile of ashes and bone chips, Moon is certain that the mystic forces his aunt can't leave alone are somehow involved.<br />Author James D. Doss (click here to see booksforabuck.com reviews of other novels by this author) combines a fine touch for characters (especially Moon's aunt), respect for the Native American heritage that makes up so critical an element in his stories, and pure adventure to deliver a fine light read. Charlie Moon is a sympathetic character now blessed with a ranch that can't make a nickle, a dog that steals anything he tries to eat, an aunt who can't help being cranky, and a girlfriend who seems to show up only at the worst possible moment.<br />Fans of the Charlie Moon series will definitely want to read this one. Tony Hillerman fans who haven't discovered Doss will be overjoyed by this addition to the short list of excellent authors writing Native American mystery.	2002-05-01
1574099:US	49115690	R3BMLYUTGL33TZ	0896585751	374867198	Magic Time (History & Heritage)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Baseball Fairy Tale	Mike Houle is a baseball player who, unaccountably choked in his senior year at LSU and is left undrafted by the major leagues. When his agent calls with a chance to play in semi-pro ball in Iowa, Mike agrees although he's never heard of the team or the league. At least, his agent assures him, the major league scouts will have a chance to see him play.<br />What Houle finds in Grand Mound Iowa comes as a complete surprise to him. Families take in ball players--especially families with young and attractive daughters. Is that normal? And Grand Mound, according to his sponsor, is one of the few towns in Iowa which is actually growing. The entire town shows up for the regular inter-squad matches held by the local semi-pro team and Houle, the pressure off, finds himself playing the best baseball of his life.<br />He may be playing great baseball but he isn't stupid. There's something going on in this town, and with this team, that just doesn't make sense.<br />Author W. P. Kinsella creates an ode to baseball as the solution to the world's problems. In a strange, fairy tale part of Iowa, baseball has become the savior of a town, and the town in turn has become the salvation to a number of players who had somehow lost touch with the love of the game. Kinsella's lyrical writing makes MAGIC TIME an intriguing and compelling read. Although the plot itself is somewhat slow moving (but then, people say the same thing about baseball), Houle's coming of age and his growing realization of the mystery of Grand Mound made me keep turning the pages.	2002-04-19
1576007:US	49115690	R2IO02NCAKY49M	0765302225	383687256	A Dragon's Ascension (Band of Four)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Best of the Band of 4	The king of Aglirta has returned to his century-old slumber, but the country is torn by civil war. Magicians, barons, and mercenaries vie for the thrown in complete disregard for their vows to the true king, his regent, Baron Blackgult, or for the four over-Dukes he had set to retain the peace. With the continuing efforts of the snake priests and a few mad mages thrown into the stew, things look rough indeed for the Band of Four and for the future of Aglirta.<br />All of Author Ed Greenwood's Band of Four novels are filled with nonstop action and A DRAGON'S ASCENSION is no exception. When Embra loses her magical stone, even Hawkril's massive sword and Craer's quick daggers seem like weak hope for the future of the nation. And unfortunately for the kingdom, the many plotters seem unwilling to kill each other off. Instead, the Four and the Regent must face each in turn, with fewer and fewer resources at every turn.<br />Greenwood seems to have turned up the emotional complexity of his writing a notch, allowing the reader to feel more involved in the story and less like he is watching someone else's fantasy roll-playing game. The story stakes are also higher. The emergence of the Serpent represents a disaster for the entire world.<br />A DRAGON'S ASCENSION is fast and compelling reading with murder and battle on almost every page. It may not be a literary masterpiece but it's a fun read.	2002-04-17
1576479:US	49115690	R21E3PE2RGDD5P	0553107445	940167612	Catch as Cat Can	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Light but fun--pets save the day again for pesky humans	Harry Haristeen, her two cats, and her dog find themselves caught in the middle of a social whirlwind in Crozet, Virginia--a whirlwind that grows increasingly serious and increasingly less social as murder marrs the festivities. Something is rotten in Crozet--but exactly what is hard to detect. Fortunately for Harry and for Virginia, the pets are on the case. And with these pets, Harry is certain to be dragged along.<br />A large part of reading a Mrs. Murphy mystery is the countryside and society that Harry hangs in. Although Harry is only a postal worker, she is a key part of the town--a town that consists of a fascinating bunch of husband-hunting single women, aristocratic pretention, and good-ole-boys out for a good time. CATCH AS CAT CAN delivers on this promise--and even gives Harry a new beau.<br />Author Rita Mae Brown delivers another light mystery. The clever pets don't try to be impossible (no driving in this one) and Harry actually does some detecting and some heroing on her own. The mystery itself was a little over the top, but this is a story about talking animals, after all. If you want serious and believable mystery, you've come to the wrong place. If you like a lighthearted with plenty of Virginia atmosphere and intelligent pets to save the day, CATCH AS CAT CAN is a winner.	2002-04-17
1577340:US	49115690	R2JAXXA4HX9G8V	0886779111	573749813	Defender (Foreigner 5)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Flashes of brilliance--not Cherryh's best, though	Sharing a planet between humans and alien atevi has been difficult enough. But when the captain of the spaceship Phoenix dies suddenly after announcing that a long-lost orbital station is still inhabited, the uncertain alliance is shaken--possibly beyond repair. And Bren Cameron, the man tasked as the link between atevi and human is put on the spot. Somehow he has to balance the interests of not two but three parties. Because the crew of the Phoenix is not much closer to, or trusted by the humans of Mospheria than they are by the atevi.<br />Few if any S.F. authors do a better job in either world-building or in analyzing the psychology of their characters than does C. J. Cherryh and DEFENDER demonstrates Cherryh's skills. The atevi are a completely convincing society--alien in ways that go far beyond physical appearance. Cameron's psychological depth, his ambivalent feelings toward the atevi whom he represents and the humans from whom he springs--drives the story forward.<br />Unfortunately, as sometimes occurs in middle novels of a series such as DEFENDER (DEFENDER is a sequel to PRECURSOR), the psychological development forms an excessive part of the entire plot. Although humans and atevi are racing to be ready for the attack of a third, completely alien, species, this species doesn't actually make an apperance in the novel. Instead, politicking between the spaceship and atevi, and Cameron's constant worry about his role in the new order, fill the pages. According to the cover blurb, DEFENDER is the THRILLING sequel.  A few more thrills would have definitely helped.<br />I am a huge Cherryh fan (I think the Alliance/Union series ranks among the best S.F. ever written). DEFENDER isn't Cherryh at her best, but any Cherryh is worth reading.	2002-04-16
1579847:US	49115690	R2X0B2H8BEP3NL	0786709545	653096156	The Scared Stiff	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Zany adventure--but we need more character motivation	When their financial problems become too severe, Barry Lee and his wife Lola come up with the perfect answer. They'll go to Guerrera, Lola's native country, Barry will die, and Lola will get the insurance money. Then Barry, resurrected as Lola's long-dead brother, will rejoin her in New York. I simple case of insurance fraud. What could possibly go wrong?<br />As it turns out, just about everything could go wrong. The man who is supposed to watch over Barry turns out to be a gangster, Lola's cousins figure that they can get more of the money if Barry really does turn out dead, Barry finds himself continually tempted by beautiful women, and both the Guerreran police and the American insurance fraud investigators have their suspicions. For Barry to stay alive, let alone get the money, he has to stay on the run.<br />Author Judson Jack Carmichael begins with a cute premise--and delivers a steady diet of frantic action. Still, THE SCARED STIFF falls a bit short of what it could have been. Perhaps if we had seen the problems that drove Barry and Lola to this extreme, it would have been possible to be more sympathetic. As it was, it was hard to get emotionally involved in someone who was, after all, trying to commit fraud.	2002-04-14
1580816:US	49115690	R3M08Q1SZF3OX4	0765303027	743536920	Dark Light	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Since the gods are coming, proper socialism is critical	A group of ancient cosmonauts from Earth itself squabble amongst themselves and with multiple sapient races on a planet ten thousand light years from Earth. Obscure debates about the virtues of anarchy and socialism and whether a republican form of government is a step away from true democracy seem to interest them almost as much as the true meaning of the 'gods' among the asteroid belts.<br />Yet the gods are real--if not truly gods. They pursue their own motives and bicker amongst themselves, even as the humans squable on the planet below. They rain gifts on some, but Matt and his fellow cosmonauts wonder whether those gifts have strings attached--strings that may involve yanking occasional light-speed ships into far-distant wars. And suddenly the type of government on this obscure planet matters a great deal. Because if the gods can send humans on a far journey to war on other species, they could also send another species to war on the humans.<br />Author Ken Macleod has created an interesting world with a seemingly stable coexistence between multiple sapient species and between stone age and early industrial human societies. The space-travelling families who visit worlds once every couple of centuries provide a destablizing yet progress-rich catalyst to the planet dwellers below. Fans of political fiction may enjoy Macleod's concern for the battles between socialist causes. I suspect, however, that many U.S. readers, at least, will find this portion of the novel to be slow going without any unexpected insights.	2002-04-13
1582926:US	49115690	R3QDSODAGAV0B8	0060008725	906069744	Tishomingo Blues	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Interesting moral dilemna and well done characters	Professional high diver Dennis Lenahan knows that he's too old for the carnival circuit. Becoming an attraction at a Mississippi casino seems like the right answer--at least for a while. When he witnesses a murder while on his diving platform, Dennis is thrown into a world of Dixie Mafia, illegal drugs, and the opportunity for more money than he's ever dreamed of.<br />His new friend, Robert, introduces Dennis to a family of blues music that might be real, or might simply be Robert's fantasy. Which is pretty much the story for Robert as a whole. Dennis wants to believe him, but Robert insists on involving him more and more deeply in a conflict between drug clans--all played out in a civil war re-enactment. Eventually Dennis is forced to confront his moral values--or admit that he really doesn't have any, and the blues may be his only guidance.<br />Author Elmore Leonard writes compellingly about the morally ambivalent world of professional crime and men trying to make their way through the world. Dennis is an interesting hero--not completely amoral but certainly not endowed with any special respect for the authorities. Robert is an entertaining and compelling foil to Dennis--intelligent, experienced, and completely without any morals, yet still likable and in control both of himself and those around him.<br />Fans of Leonard's fiction will want to pick this one up--it's definitely a winner. Those new to Leonard will want to read more--(I'll recommend the immortal STICK (buy it from Amazon) as Leonard's best although he is perhaps better known for GET SHORTY (buy it from Amazon)).	2002-04-12
1586060:US	49115690	R4C94AJ3R52VD	0373169175	63185668	The Unlawfully Wedded Princess	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Heartwarming princess meets a tough mercenary who needs love	...<br />Author Kara Lennox has created another delightful novel of characters forced to choose between their growing love and the dreams and fears that they have harbored. Amelia and Nicholas are wonderful and flawed characters who must grow and learn to trust in their love if they are to have a chance at happiness. Yet with their earlier relationship based on a lie, is trust really an option? A wonderful story by a talented author.	2002-04-09
1586376:US	49115690	R342UR5TVWACD1	0553584154	961130152	Promise of Gold	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great mix of romance and undersea archeology	Archeologist and adventurer Derek Carlisle, Viscount Graystone has almost everything he needs for the greatest discovery of his life. A Spanish galleon, filled with treasures from China as well as new world gold, lies sunk and he has the equipment to discover and recover it. All he needs is one book--held by Cuban aristocrat Don Geraldo de Vargas. When Vargas refuses to sell, and when beautiful thief Rosa Wright steals the book, Derek faces new challenges and the possibility of taking on a greedy and mercenary new partner. Rosa has problems of her own. With three aging god-fathers to take care of, she desperately needs some means of assuring their comfort. The treasure of a Spanish galleon is too much to resist. Yet does she really have the right to demand so much of Derek, especially after her godfather's frame him for the very theft she committed?<br />Set in the late 19th century during the Spanish-American war, PROMISE OF GOLD combines romance, Rosa's endearing and interfering godfathers, and adventure. Author Kristen Kyle draws up the sexual tension between these two unwilling partners, throwing them into conflict at every opportunity, yet never letting up on the attraction that draws them together. Kyle's research into 19th century undersea technology makes the story seem more authentic and adds opportunities for additional adventure--and romance.	2002-04-09
1586978:US	49115690	R10B4GWKA3FGMK	0821772392	452578170	Strictly Seduction	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bradley delivers a steamy winner	Maddie Sedgewick knows exactly what marriage means--loss of control, loss of respect, and being blamed when her husband beats her. When her first husband died, she felt relieved despite the huge debt he left behind. Now, however, a man from her past has bought the debt and is pressuring her to marry him. In 1834 in England, debters prison is still a real danger. Unfortunately, Maddie knows Brock Taylor knows no scruples--he'll do whatever it takes to win his goals. Brock needs Maddie's land to build the railroad that will enrich him and England, he needs her to gain entre to the world of the rich and noble, but most of all, he needs her to feel whole. What he can't do is trust her. Five years before, he'd left to seek his fortune and she'd lost no time marrying the first nobleman to come along. Dare he trust his heart to her now? Seduction and exploring of the physical attraction is safer for both than admitting to real love.<br />Author Shelley Bradley delivers a steamily sensual novel. As Brock and Maddie maneuver for advantage, they find it almost impossible to resist the sexual pull that compells them with real force. Both, in turn, try to use physical attraction to their own advantage, and both find that that weapon cuts both ways. Yet beneath the physical attraction, each hides deep secrets--secrets that could either destroy them or set them free. Until each learns to trust the other with more than their bodies, until what is STRICTLY SEDUCTION turns into real love, their relationship can only lead to pain.	2002-04-09
1587322:US	49115690	R2F9QBI32RU0DF	0373272154	57900314	Just A LIttle Bit Dangerous (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderfully damaged hero	It's just another routine job, Deputy Sheriff Jake Madigan tells himself. Track the escaping convict down, bring her back, and get on with his life. So what if she's a beauty who looks like anything but a killer--he's been fooled by women before and he isn't going to let that happen again. Abby Nichols has escaped from prison after barely surviving an attack--she's going to stay out and clear her name if it kills her, and nobody, especially not some hunky cop, is going to stop her. Except Jake is something like a force of nature and doesn't give up. But in the Colorado mountains, there are other forces of nature--forces that keep Abby and Jake together for longer than either of them intended, or wanted. Jake starts to believe Abby's story about an organ-stealing doctor and a frame. But will either of them be alive for long enough for that to make a difference? Even if they do, can both really be expected to love again?<br />Author Linda Castillo combines heart-pounding suspense with powerful romance to deliver an exciting novel. Jake is a wonderfully damaged hero while Abby is his perfect match. A sniper in the woods makes the 'snowed into the cabin' plot device work and a truly nasty villain manages to be convincing and dangerous at the same time. A highly enjoyable romantic adventure.	2002-04-09
1590096:US	49115690	RCY46309DJXLW	0786709456	323424525	Goodnight, Sweet Prince	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great characters and mystery--royals acting badly	In 1881, Victoria is Queen and Empress and proper British society is at its very height, yet all is not well. Investigator Lord Powerscourt is brought into a strange case involving blackmail of the Prince of Wales himself. England's heir has followed in some of the unfortunate traditions of royalty and his son, Prince Eddy, may be even worse. When Prince Eddy is found dead and the Prince of Wales decides on a cover-up, Powerscourt is called upon to find the killer in a murder that the English Royals simply cannot admit occured.<br />Author David Dickinson offers a delightful combination of engaging characters (the romance between Powerscourt and Lady Lucy is very well done as is the time-table toting butler) and compelling mystery. As Powerscourt digs deeper into the murder, he finds that Prince Eddy had much to account for and that the list of people with motives is long indeed. Powerscourt's investigative abilities and the reader's enjoyment are enhanced by his insights into society and humanity.<br />The scandals of the Royals have made history from the days of Shakespear until today. Dickinson reminds us that even in the glory days of the British Empire and Victoria, power and corruption add up to a dangerous combination--dangerous both to the royals themselves, and to everyone who comes in contact with them. GOODNIGHT SWEET PRINCE is a joy to read.<br />Highly Recommended.	2002-04-07
1591717:US	49115690	R7R328GCB2QGA	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great forensic anthropology, too much coincidence	Forensic anthropologist Tempe Brennan is finally doing something she loves--helping determine the evidence for a prospective saint buried near Quebec. Despite the cold, she loves what she'd doing. Soon, however, far more recent death enters her world. For a time it seems that every place she turns, whether in Quebec, or home in North Carolina, she turns up another corpse--another murder. When the evidence begins to point to a link between the deaths and a strange cult that just might have caught her sister in its grip, Tempe feels helpless to do anything to prevent a new death wave that could make the current death of the day seem small.<br />Author Kathy Reichs is completely convincing in her descriptions of forensic anthropology. The segments of DEATH DU JOUR dealing with the recovery of the prospective Saint, including both the science and Reichs' descriptions of the bitter cold of Quebec in winter ring painfully true. She adds page-turning suspense and the risks of both emotional and physical danger to Tempe to make the novel even more compelling.<br />The amount of coincidence involved in the story, put me off to some extent. While a cult might well have branches in multiple cities, the odds that one forensic anthropologist would accidentally get involved in the activities of this cult in three separate areas stretches the reader's credibility. Fortunately, Reich moves DEATH DU JOUR along at a fast enough pace that you aren't given enough time to consider the improbability of some of Reich's plot elements.	2002-04-05
1609381:US	49115690	R2URY44DUYAS3L	0345448200	178351064	Kaleidoscope: A Countess Karitska Novel	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Simplistic writing, interesting psychic story	Psychic Madame Karitska uses her psychometry (ability to learn about a person by touching something that they owned or held) to help the police and her clients. A wide range of people from all walks of life find their way into her storefront office and Karitska gives them all coffee, tea, or chocolate, then deals with their problems as best she can. Although not all results are positive, Karitska manages to help her clients avoid a wide range of far worse fates.<br />Author Dorothy Gilman offers a kaleidoscope of human life as a wide range of clients bring their problems to Karitska. Through Karitska, most learn about themselves rather than about their supposed questions--and that, of course, is the point.<br />Gilman's writing is simplistic. KALEIDOSCOPE is approachable by young readers and may seem somewhat too simple for adult readers. Still, the novel has its rewards and, in many ways, Karitska is a charming character.	2002-03-22
1609757:US	49115690	R27CHK7EW7NMAY	0671318608	248449563	The Excalibur Alternative	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good battles, skips the really important part of the story	When a storm hits an English fleet on its way to France, aliens swoop down and pick up a small army of archers and men at arms. Based on the Roman experience, human warriors are highly valued by the guilds that control known space--guilds forbidden to use high technology to control natives but fully able to use human mercenaries. English archers from the campaigns of Edward III are among the deadliest soldiers in history and cut a swath of destruction through their guilds' enemies.<br />Baron George Wincaster sees no alternative but to follow the orders of his 'Commander.' The alien's technology prevents any effective attack and he is brutally willing to punish even the slightest infraction of the rules. Still, George knows that the arrangement is only temporary. If he doesn't do something, his army, and eventually the entire human population of earth, will be subject to alien rule--or destruction.<br />Set in the universe of David Drake's RANKS OF BRONZE, author David Weber's THE EXCALIBUR ALTERNATIVE further develops the idea of a largely stagnant, rulebound, but horribly powerful alien civilization whose rules will eventually compell it to destroy Earth. Weber does a fine job depicting Wincaster's frustrations with the alien leadership and his attempts to set his people free.<br />THE EXCALIBUR ALTERNATIVE suffers from one of the same faults as Drake's RANKS OF BRONZE--its battle sequences, while interesting, are fundamentally unimportant to the character goals and to the novel's arc. What is important is that Wincaster escape the aliens in time to create a credible alternative to Earth's destruction. Yet most of the book consists of Wincaster being flown from one pointless battle to the next. Fans of medieval warfare may enjoy quibbling with Weber's description of the power of the English longbow but even they are likely to share the frustration.<br />Weber does as well as he can with a story which leaves out the most interesting part of the story--Wincaster's struggles to create a new society that can survive the inevitable alien counterattack. I, for one, wish that he'd spent more time on this critical area and spared us a few pointless battles.'s struggles to create a new society that can survive the inevitable alien counterattack. I, for one, wish that he'd spent more time on this critical area and spared us a few pointless battles.	2002-03-22
1609769:US	49115690	R3M08Y44GEE0VG	0553299492	659507995	The Robots of Dawn (The Robot Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Asimov Robots are the best	Police Investigator Lije Baley has solved several mysteries with his robot partner and friend R. Daneel Olivaw, but now he is presented with an impossible situation--and a situation that Earth's and humanity's survival depends upon. A human-formed robot has been 'killed,' yet the only man with the capacity to destroy the robot in this way is the man whose efforts may save Earth. Worse, Baley's investigations take place on Aurora, the planet of dawn. And on Aurora, as in all the spacer world, Earth-humans are regarded as sewers of disease, short life, and ignorance.<br />Author Isaac Asimov develops his most emotionally compelling stories in his robot series and THE ROBOTS OF DAWN certainly shows this lineage. Not only is Baley re-united with his partner, but he also finds himself involved with the spacer woman who holds a special place in his heart. Using a combination of logic, bull-headed determination, and intuitive leaps, Baley proves that good investigative techniques are a universal, whether on Earth or in the spacer worlds.<br />Asimov, one of the masters of the golden age of Science Fiction, further develops his wonderful partnership between human and robot. While perhaps not as powerfully compelling as the two earlier works in this series (THE CAVES OF STEEL and THE NAKED SUN), fans of these books will find THE ROBOTS OF DAWN completely enjoyable. Likewise, fans of Asimov's FOUNDATION series will find that Asimov used ROBOTS as a transitional novel between these two series, explaining how the society described in the Robot books is able to transform into that of FOUNDATION.<br />Written in the early 1980s, ROBOTS shows a mixture of sophisticated futurism and curious misses. I was amused by the way Asimov's robots skillfully input data into the computer system--surely any robot sophisticated enough to be self-aware would be able to input data directly (e.g., through a wireless, wired, or infra-red link) rather than requiring digital manipulation. Readers who consider the pre-PC era in which this novel was written, however, will appreciate Asimov's reach in his futurism rather than his misses.who consider the pre-PC era in which this novel was written, however, will appreciate Asimov's reach in his futurism rather than his misses.	2002-03-22
1618901:US	49115690	R3BCW2OX38KCBN	1890208825	831105970	Three for a Letter:  A John the Eunuch Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Funny, historical, good characters, good mystery--WOW	When a young heir to the Ostrogoth throne is found murdered, the Emperoro Justinian demands that his Lord Chamberlain, John the Eunuch, find the killer and protect the heir's twin. Difficult enough tasks in the best of time, but with the Empress Theodora calling for John's head and the continuing intrigues of the Byzantine court as background, John's task is made even harder and more dangerous. Still, John has no choice but to follow Justinian's orders and he begins by trying to track down two men, who turned up missing immediately after the murder.<br />Authors Mary Reed and Eric Mayer succeed in the challenging triple task of building an interesting character, providing believable historical material (why else would we read a historical mystery), and making the mystery itself exciting. THREE FOR A LETTER combines one of the most interesting periods of history--the period immediately after the fall of the Western Roman Empire and before the emergence of Islam in the East--with truly three dimensional characters, especially John himself. Reed and Mayer's light touch will bring up some smiles to round out a terrific novel.<br />Any fan of historical mysteries, especially mysteries set in the more distant past, will welcome the JOHN THE EUNUCH stories. THREE FOR A LETTER is the third in the series but these novels may be read in any order.	2002-03-15
1623391:US	49115690	R365UFL6L5T4A	0553107356	944136122	Jane and the Prisoner of Wool House: Being the Sixth Jane Austen Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another fun Jane Austen romp	In 1807, novelist Jane Austen is in Southampton with her brother Frank as he attempts to secure himself a ship. When one of his friends and fellow officers in the British navy is accused of a particularly foul murder, Frank flounders, certain of his friend's innocence yet unable to determine a plan of action. Fortunately for Frank, and for Frank's friend, Jane is only too willing to take on the mystery. Before long there are suspects for a frame and dead bodies, all in the context of proper Jane Austen manners.<br />Author Stephanie Barron does an excellent job describing England at war with Napoleon, on the verge of the industrial age, and in the transition to the modern world. Manners, position in society, and inherited wealth still play major roles, and marrying the right man is the ultimate goal for the proper woman. Barron is obviously sympathetic with her heroine, a novelist whose personal life is far from ideal, while not attempting to give Austen unduly modern attitudes.<br />Mixed in with the pleasurable historical view and literary references, Barron manages to deliver an exciting mystery as well. With a prisoner of war camp, a dramatic rescue at sea, and plenty of evil and simply naughty red herrings on the scene, Austen has all she can do to keep her senses and sensibilities about her and help prevent a terrible injustice. JANE AND THE PRISONER OF WOOL HOUSE is a lot of fun.	2002-03-12
1623643:US	49115690	R1MDOOU2EZF4LP	0765303582	164593090	Shadowsinger (Spellsong Cycle)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Action, but not much suspense	The great spellsinger Anna (from Earth) is dead but her work lives on in the person of Secca, Sorceress Protector of Defalk. The Sea-Priests have invaded with armies that far outnumber all of the forces that Secca can muster, especially since her own lands are divided in loyalties and even Roberto, the Lord of Defalk, cannot be fully trusted. Accompanied by a small group of lancers, her consort, and a junior sorceress, Secca must somehow defeat the huge armies and the numerous sorcerors of the Sea-Priests. If she cannot, the Sea-Priests will impose their ways--which include enslaving all women and cutting out the tongues of female sorceresses--on the entire world.<br />In this fourth novel of the SPELLSONG CYCLE, author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. confronts Secca with the ultimate choices. Either she must use the spells that even Anna feared to employ or lose everything. Secca struggles with her choices--wishing for any alternative but too courageous to take the honorable but losing way out. If genocide is the only option, it is an option that she cannot afford to discard.<br />Modesitt always writes an exciting adventure and SHADOWSINGER is no exception. Secca travels around the fantasy world confronting one Sea-Priest army or fleet after another. Through clever use of magic, and the development of spells that the Sea-Priests could not even contemplate, she is able to destroy all she faces. Yet the Sea-Priests are patient. At best, a complete victory means only that their conquest will be delayed.<br />Unfortunately for the novel's suspense, Secca is simply too strong a sorceress. Despite the Sea-Priest Maitre's cleverness and planning, and despite his confidence in his massed drummers and sorcerers, Secca merely escalates her level of destructiveness with each encounter. Although Secca is badly outnumbered, and although the Sea-Priests' habits of killing and enslaving hardly make them admirable, I almost ended up rooting for the underdog, hoping that Secca will get hers. Hardly, I think, the message that Modesitt was trying to send.<br />Modesitt fans will want to read this summary to the SPELLSONG series. If you aren't already hooked, you might try one of his other novels. Modesitt is a great writer--but SHADOWSINGER doesn't represent his best writing.s. Hardly, I think, the message that Modesitt was trying to send. <br />Modesitt fans will want to read this summary to the SPELLSONG series. If you aren't already hooked, you might try one of his other novels. Modesitt is a great writer--but SHADOWSINGER doesn't represent his best writing.	2002-03-11
1626944:US	49115690	R1R2WZTYHV51UR	1892695081	915250281	The Body from Ipanema	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good feel for Rio, mystery not quite there	Musician Tony Kozol is in Brazil for a concert when one of the band leader's gofers introduces him to Rio's criminal underworld. Deep in Rio's favellas, Tony learns that sometimes going along is the only way to stay alive. Still, life is mostly good--he has fallen in love with a beautiful woman, had a paying job, and Rio is in full carnival mode, with some of the world's most beautiful women on full display.<br />Then the entire thing falls apart. His boss seems to lose faith in him, the gangsters are putting pressure on him to support them in a major heist, and his girlfriend seems to have a powerful boyfriend who wants to see Tony out of the way no matter what it takes. Tony, along with his friend and sidekick Rock Bottom, will have to move fast to stay ahead of the wave of disaster bearing down on them.<br />Author J. R. Ripley does a convincing job portraying Rio de Janeiro in high carnival season. The samba beat, the contrasts of extreme wealth and abject poverty, and the curious position of law enforcement (being sometimes more dangerous than the people they are supposed to protect against) all ring true. The mystery itself is less convincing. When Brazil's Federal Police finally ask Tony and Rock for their assistance, one can only wonder why--it certainly isn't explained, nor does it make a great deal of sense. As a mystery reader, I also expect to learn all the clues that the point of view protagonist learns. In THE BODY FROM IPANEMA, a key clue was withheld from the reader but not from Tony, making the mystery perhaps more interesting from the reader's perspective, but fundamentally cheating on the implicit contract between author and reader.	2002-03-08
1631988:US	49115690	RXHRUSM6CTU84	0765300079	105923288	The Dragon Society (Obsidian Chronicles)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good dragons, needs action, justification for genocide	Arlian, Lord Obsidion is a member of the Dragon Society, that group of essentially immortal humans blessed and cursed with the wound of the dragons' venom. Yet he has learned the secret of that blessing--they are given their long life to serve as the breeding ground for future generations of dragons. In seeking vengence for the dragons' destruction of his family and his own enslavement, Arlian has killed the man whose bargain kept the dragons from attacking humans. Now, all the deals are off.<br />Arlian is torn between his compulsion to destroy the dragons, and the certainty that this destruction will only come at the cost of thousands of human lives. Worse, the very group he most depends on for aid, the Dragon Society sworn to oppose dragons in all areas, is torn by the knowledge that he brings. If dragons are to be eradicated from the earth, that means that the Dragon Society must give up their own lives--or live to breed new dragons. Yet unless Arlian is successful, the dragons will resume the enslavement of the human race.<br />Author Lawrence Watt-Evans has created a compelling fantasy world. His dragons are cruel, yet also intelligent communicating beings who care deeply for their prospective children and who fear the genocide that Arlian threatens to bring upon them. THE DRAGON SOCIETY consists largely with Arlian's moral dilemna rather than with adventure although there are certainly moments of classic sword and sorcery.<br />I would have preferred to see less time spent on retelling of the back story from DRAGON WEATHER and more time spent on developing Arlian's character in this novel. His thirst for revenge seems watered down rather than burning with passion. Too, I found Arlian's unquestioned certainty that the only solution was complete genocide of all dragons disturbing. A man might make such a decision and even be right, but Arlian never questions his goals even as he learns that the dragons are not beasts as is commonly believed, but as intelligent as humans.nt as humans.	2002-03-05
1632450:US	49115690	R26HUG29305KEZ	0373272103	22188807	KEEPING CAROLINE (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Emotion-packed story--compelling	Since he lost his son, K-9 cop and hostage negotiator Matt Burkett has withdrawn into himself, thrusting away his wife Caroline and any hope she might have had about having another child. After watching her husband become a stranger, Caroline returns to her roots--with a secret. Despite the precautions that Matt insisted upon, he is now a father again. When Matt shows up with divorce papers, he is forced to confront the dangers of living again--but is his love for Caroline merely Matt's overdeveloped sense of responsibility, or does he really love her enough to try again. When danger threatens his family, Matt is finally forced to chose between life and death.<br />Author Vickie Taylor has written a powerfully compelling novel of emotion and redemption. Both Matt and Caroline have made terrible mistakes, refusing to confide some of the most important events of their lives in one another. Taylor avoids the temptation to whitewash Caroline's behavior having wise friend Savanah confront Caroline with her own fears--including the question of whether Matt isn't the only one who blames himself for their son's death. Taylor details the events that force Matt to step up to his life more tightly than those facing Caroline, yet clearly both must grow, must transform themselves, and must learn to trust one another before they can take another chance at love.	2002-03-04
1633224:US	49115690	RQR08LW1DUNWU	0380977621	823966926	The Watch	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Truly cool concept, delivery almost there	...<br />Author Dennis Danvers does fine job describing how a man who truly believes in the power of the people over the power of the state would live and how he would decide amongst the alternatives available to him, while at the same time making Kroptkin human, with human desires and flaws. The brief quotes from the historical Kroptkin's work add depth to the novel as well as framing the decisions the fictional Kroptkin must face.<br />THE WATCH is an enjoyable novel but it suffers from a protagonist who has no clear goals. While he seeks the utopian revolution that will overthrow the state and allow humans to live in harmony with one another and with nature, Kroptkin doesn't seem to really do much to bring this about (unless he believes that simply living that lifestyle will catch on). Without clear objectives for Kroptkin to work toward and for the reader to identify with, THE WATCH distances Kroptkin from the reader, reducing the emotional impact and reducing the reader's identification with Danvers' political message as well. This limitation notwithstanding, I enjoyed THE WATCH and am intrigued by the historical Kroptkin.	2002-03-04
1635861:US	49115690	R12PKLQ9G0FBZN	0312280920	130621110	Murder on the Minnesota: A Mystery Featuring George Porter Dillman and Genevieve Masefield (George Porter Dillman and Genevieve Masefield Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Authentic feel of 1908--detectives cruising with the rich	aking a break from the Atlantic cruises, ship detectives George Porter Dillman and Genevieve Masefield take a job on a Pacific route. The shipping company suspects smuggling--and even has identified the likely smuggler, but without evidence, they can do nothing. It is up to Dillman and Masefield to find the evidence. Before they make much progress, though, a Priest is murdered. With both known and unknown violent men aboard, the pair are in soon in danger.<br />Set in 1908, shipping is still elegant and class-conscious. Masefield blends in effortlessly with the rich and powerful, yet feels guilty for using her friendships to betray her friends. Dillman is more practical but no less anxious to protect Masefield's feelings--and her life.<br />Author Conrad Allen does a fine job describing early 20th century shipping, the politics of a failing China and a rising Japan, and the class-conscious and elite world of first class cruises. Although MURDER ON THE MINNESOTA is marred by occasionally stuffy dialogue, it is still an enjoyable and highly readable mystery. Fans of the series will definitely want to grab this one. Readers new to Dillman and Masefield can pick up MURDER ON THE MINNESOTA without needing to read the earlier novels.	2002-03-01
1638742:US	49115690	R2A54VC73SKS8B	0425183424	329591791	Death at Dartmoor (Robin Paige Victorian 8)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	So, Dr. Doyle--how was your vacation	Lord Charles Sheridan, his wife Kate, and Arthur Conan Doyle are visiting the Dartmoor moors when and invited to a seance. A mystic foretells that the host's wife will be betrayed. When the host is found dead after leaving a letter claiming that he was leaving with another woman, the mystic's bone fides appear perfect, especially when confirmed by Doyle. A recently escaped prisoner seems the most likely suspect, but Charles and Kate believe that there is more to the case than the obvious.<br />Author Robin Paige (the pen name for Susan Wittig Albert and Bill Albert) combines an exciting mystery with a possible explanation of Doyle's great Sherlock Holmes mystery THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES. Paige provides a convincing view of turn-of-the century England, a properly Dr. Watson version of Doyle, and expertly weaves the mystery events with hints at the HOUND. I especially enjoyed Paige's female characters. While Charles appeared too good to be true, Kate, Patsy, and Ellie are delightful.<br />Mystery readers are unlikely to be fooled by the mystery but the combination of historical mystery, historical characters placed in a fictional setting, and Paige's fine style make DEATH AT DARTMOOR a fully enjoyable read.	2002-02-27
1640511:US	49115690	R1TSGMNQKQCRHM	0553104748	118153967	Hopscotch	Books	3	3	3	N	N	What happens when people can switch bodies?	In the not-too-distant future, humans have developed the ability to switch bodies with one another. Since the opportunities for crime are immense where a criminal can simply use another's body, law enforcement has taken on a powerful role and the BTL is a much feared organization. In an orphanage run by monks, three of four friends learn to experience body shifting. One, however, is incapable of shifting bodies but has the unique ability to see the true identity of a person no matter what body she may be wearing. One of the friends, Eduard, takes on jobs switching bodies for money. When one body switch goes horribly wrong, the four friends become caught in a battle between friendship and the law.<br />Author Kevin J. Anderson's concepts of human ability to shift bodies (hopscotch), as well as that of the semi-sentient computer/human web that monitors all activities, are both interesting and well presented. Anderson's talented writing keeps the reader involved in the story and willing to suspend disbelief. The characters' lack of real motivation, however, undermines the story. Eduard recognizes the futility of proving his innocence and doesn't even try to do so. Garth achieves success as an artist and doesn't know what to do next (although Anderson's descriptions of Garth's frustration with his success and his need to achieve more ring true). Daragon serves to hunt down Eduard, yet doesn't seem especially motivated beyond this. Even Teresa, separated from her body by a brutal cult leader, meanders through much of this novel.<br />Anderson's writing, and his development of the idea of body-shifting are both capable enough to make HOPSCOTCH enjoyable reading. I found myself wishing that he had done more with his talent and with the basic premise.	2002-02-26
1641724:US	49115690	R220T3GOA9BEZT	0312877838	936164499	Shadows Bite	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fast action, interesting vampire details	Charlie Takumo is trying to get his life together, practicing his martial arts and becoming a modern ninja. Complications, like a criminal family trying to get access to his friend Mage through Takumo are merely part of the challenge. But when their mutual friend Kelly is assigned a case where the evidence points to a vampire, things get very serious indeed. Despite Mage's limited control over the 'focus,' a growing army of undead vampires isn't fun for anyone. Especially when they are aided by a satanic black wizzard and when that criminal family ups the ante and turns to the top bounty hunter in the country.<br />Julia Petrosyan is a goth, writes morbid bad poetry, and wants nothing more than to take the final step toward becoming a vampire. When she gets there, along with a little help from the black wizzard, she lacks the self control to keep from turning person after person into the undead. And author Stephen Dedman's vampires are a lot harder to kill than the Hollywood version. Stakes through the heart barely phase them, upheld crosses are a slight inconvenience, and exposure to sunlight is painful but far from instantly fatal. Tackling a single vampire is a challenge, even for a martial artist like Takumo. Taking on the growing army seems beyond the talents of even our heros.<br />Dedman escalates the intensity throughout the story, adding greater challenges as Kelly, Takumo, and Mage overcome each obstacle. I would have liked to see the romantic entanglements between Kelly, Takumo, and Mage more fully developed, and homocide detective Woodcott seemed intended to play a more significant role than he actually fulfilled, but these are small quibbles. SHADOWS BITE is a fast-moving and exciting read.	2002-02-25
1644028:US	49115690	R3R9FHW9NK8XRK	0312282087	795504067	Skeleton at the Feast (Yorkshire)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Intriguing characters, weak mystery	DCI Michael Thackeray is sent back to Oxford, to the college where he'd studied, while his superiors work out what to do with the disaster of a case he left behind. Back at Yorkshire, his detectives try to get on with their lives and cope with the death of one of their own. All is not well at Oxford. His college, which has always hidden its crimes, has continued to do so but a missing professor, the professor's missing girlfriend, and considerable missing money compound Thackeray's old memories of a murder that took place when he was a student.<br />Author Patricia Hall balances the Oxford mystery with the case of a 13-year old girl who was raped and beaten back in Yorkshire. Reporter, and Thackeray's girlfriend Laura serves as a bridge, spending weekends in Oxford with Thackeray and working on both cases.<br />Virtually all of Hall's male characters are damaged, trying to make a life for themselves despite the loss of so much. Thackeray has never recovered from his years at Oxford, and now must relive that terrible time and the cover-up that he has never forgotten. His sergeant, Kevin Mower, is slowly self-destructing out of grief for the loss of his love. Strong women, Laura, her grandmother, and DC Val Ridley provide the strength to keep the males moving.<br />Hall's writing is vivid and American readers are likely to enjoy her judicious use of Yorkshire dialect. The mysteries themselves are fairly anti-climactic, however. In particular, the the Oxford murders seem a little too disconnected. I kept waiting for the other shoe to drop--but it never did. Likewise the Yorkshire mystery was quickly resolved once Thackeray returned to the job--so quickly that I wondered why it took so long in the first place. SKELETON AT THE FEAST is interesting and thought provoking, but needs a bit of sharpening to be a really compelling mystery.	2002-02-23
1644371:US	49115690	RNLQQITIAC4Y	0373195702	307241422	Least Likely To Wed (From The Circle K) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Judy Christenberry Magic	Kelly Hampton spent a miserable six months married to a cowboy and has only a wonderful son to remind her of it. When handsome cowboy Pete Crawford walks into her dress shop, she assumes he's only looking for his sister--until he kisses her. Kelly doesn't want a man and certainly wouldn't even consider a cowboy, but Pete is trying to head off ex-girlfriend Sheila who won't give up. What can it hurt to pretend to be his girlfriend--except her heart. Pete thinks he's got it made--a woman who won't try to trap him into marriage--until he starts to think about family himself. He had thought he was least likely to wed, but can he persuade Kelly that he's changed?<br />Author Judy Christenberry has written another heart-warming tale of cowboys who love animals, children, and the women who change their lives. Kelly, in particular, is an attractive heroine with her unwillingness to put up with Pete's bad habits and fierce independent streak. Christenberry delivers another page-turning read in this tale of two people who are absolutely certain that they will never fall in love again--and just can't help what happens.	2002-02-23
1648099:US	49115690	RV0JNXLVZHR2R	0786866209	816084289	Conflict of Interest: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too busy with problems to detect	Assistant District Attorney Joanne Kuhlman has recovered her children from the years they spent with their kidnapping father, but all is not well in her life. Her daughter, Leah, is acting out, and something is wrong with the case she has been assigned to prosecute. When attractive defense attorney Arnold Dreiser asks her to give his client--mildly retarded Ian Drecker--special attention, Kuhlman's reaction is to run both from his proposition and from the sexual feelings she has denied for so long.<br />Drecker, along with brothers Tom and Gary Rubinsky, are accused of holding up a convenience store. It soon becomes obvious that the brothers are taking advantage of Decker, using him for transportation, lodging, and cash. Yet can Kuhlman offer any special consideration to him, even if he is partially a victim? Before long, the mystery deepens from a simple holdup to murder--and Kuhlman is forced to confront her fears.<br />Author Nancy Taylor Rosenberg explores the challenges Kuhlman faces in recovering her life after the tragedy of her husband's desertion and kidnapping of their children. Kuhlman is afraid to trust and finds it difficult to set appropriate boundaries for her children. Fortunately for her, she is blessed with a powerful ex-CIA detective Eli Connors, who feels that he owes her. With help from Connors, Dreiser, and Drecker's mother, the whole truth emerges.<br />Although CONFLICT OF INTEREST is an interesting story, it is weakened by Kulhman's rather passive role in the story. As protagonist, she relies to heavily on others to do the work. It's hard for the reader to get behind a character who spends her time worrying about her children and then sending out her minions to solve the crime. Fortunately, Nancy Taylor Rosenberg's writing is strong enough to pull this off but the reader may be left with the feeling that the novel could have been so much stronger.	2002-02-20
1653063:US	49115690	R9N9UR62F73J0	0345441141	188007921	The Alchemist	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Great concept, characters are too flat	At the dawn of history, the House of Ra stands, training students in true science, magic, and every art. Three students stand head and shoulders above the others--Akan, Han, and Nefar--the woman both men love. Together they can work magic more powerful than any known, yet their use of magic is not unlimited and subject to great risk for themselves and those around them. The three agree to use their powers to build a paradise on earth, yet delivering on their promises is more difficult than their power would make it appear.<br />Author Donna Boyd has created an intriguing fantasy that spans all of recorded history. The three alchemists transform history, yet always reach for more than they can safely achieve. Unfortunately, THE ALCHEMIST is weakened by the narrative device that Boyd has chosen--a retrospective first person narrative that somehow distances the reader from the characters. Although THE ALCHEMIST is a tale of overpowering emotions, great good and evil, sibling rivalry that extends through the centuries, and even contains an intriguing twist at the end, the story-telling is strangely flat.<br />THE ALCHEMIST is an interesting book, certainly worth the read. It is also instructive for writers to see both how to create a compelling plot and setting, and how this fine concept can be brought up short of full fruition.	2002-02-15
1655991:US	49115690	RQWKV8BIPUQPG	1555836577	230808636	Making A Killing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A contemporary urban romp--great fun	Mitchell Draper has lost his job working for a children's television series and is looking at a career in the children's ghetto of scriptwriting. With a month before his next job starts, he decides to write the perfect blockbuster screenplay. The only problem is, he doesn't have a story. Visiting his friend Ramir's guru doesn't give him any ideas but it does unleash a strange vision. That vision eventually leads him to investigate a decades-old murder-suicide--or was it a double-murder.<br />MAKING A KILLING explores the gay and artistic communities of Toronto, Canada. Mitchell is a great character, filled with angst about his future, yet concerned about his friends as well. The concept of a movie script driving the mystery forward works, motivating Mtchell to continue his investigation despite the increasing threats he faces.<br />Talented author Warren Dunford combines a light, humorous touch with a real sense of the urban 30-something artistic community and enough mystery to keep the story interesting. While you may guess the killer's identity, the Dunford does a great job rolling out the clues and both foreshadowing and obscuring the full story behind the twin deaths. I found myself laughing and reading segments to my wife--something that doesn't happen enough.	2002-02-13
1658912:US	49115690	R5YZMMXQ41SOP	0373195753	560045965	Right Where He Belongs (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Neat book by exciting new talent	Tanner Fairfax has learned plenty in his life, the most important thing being not to depend on anyone but himself. He agrees to return to his family's ancestral home after his grandfather's death, but only to sell the place and make sure it doesn't get turned into a museum making a hero out of the old villain. He doesn't know what to make of beautiful Cassie Leighton, the woman who's making repairs to his grandfather's house and who seems to think the old jerk was some sort of saint.<br />Cassie Leighton promised Frank Fairfax that she'd try to teach his grandson the value of family and the worth of living in a small town in Ohio where everyone knows you. New Haven is where the Fairfax family has always lived; it's where Tanner belongs. Of course he is too stuborn to see it, but he's attractive enough that Cassie doesn't mind spending the time needed to show him. What she fears, though, is that she'll fall for him. Cassie won't risk her heart to anyone who doesn't commit to the whole thing--living together, working together, sharing all of their dreams.<br />Both Cassie and Tanner have been injured, but both recognize the attraction that flows between them. Can they overcome their fears, agree to a compromise of their dreams to get what they really want?<br />In her first novel, author Rebecca Russell writes convincingly of life in small town central United States. Cassie and Tanner are multidimensional characters with a depth of history and emotion that is rare even in works by much more experienced authors. RIGHT WHERE HE BELONGS is a small jem of a novel. I'll keep my eyes open for more novels by this talented author.	2002-02-11
1660858:US	49115690	R1D2I0NWC12HIT	076530113X	467735091	The Dark Wing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Action with something real to think about--very superior	For decades, humanity has been at war with the Zor. Despite losing every major campaign, the Zor violate every truce, attacking and attempting to eliminate the entire human race. In desperation, the Emperor calls on a retired Admiral, Marais, to take command of the human forces. Marais, having studied the Zor, believes that the only solution is to take the path of the destroyer from Zor mythology--the Dark Wing--and to eliminate the Zor forever. When he embarks on his counter-attack, his subordinate commanders, and humanity back on Earth, must face the ultimate decisions. Although Marais seems completely in charge, someone, or something, is pursuing a different agenda. The mysterious Agency back on Earth has its fingers in many pots. Worse, the Zor believe that another enemy, another race, threatens both human and Zor.<br />Combining the philosophical questions of Xenocide and solid space action, THE DARK WING can be seen as a sort of combination of ENDER'S GAME and HONOR HARRINGTON. Author Walter H. Hunt has written a novel that is both exciting and thought provoking. Marais is an interesting character confronted with the moral decisions of whether to commit Xenocide and how to protect his soldiers from the reaction back on Earth. Hunt skillfully uses secondary acters as point-of-view characters to maintain a high level of suspense.<br />Although the Zor problem is dealt with, humanity's place in the universe is not assured. I hope to see a sequel to this fine novel to see what happens next. Note: ignore the truly awful cover. This 1950's retro artwork is not representative of the well thought-out story.	2002-02-09
1667119:US	49115690	R7R1RCVI0D4LP	0786230142	214350841	Austin City Blue	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very well written and compelling. Enjoyable.	When female police officer Zoe Barrow shoots a man to rescue another officer, she is merely doing her job. When she learns that he is the criminal whose earlier shot turned her husband into a vegetable, she feels a sense of closure rather than regret. But the shooting is only the beginning of a strange and violent events in Zoe's life. One of her snitches is killed, a friend of her husband's claims that his wife is trying to kill him, and Zoe starts feeling a strange attraction toward a private detective. When the possibility of police corruption comes up, Zoe doesn't know who her friends are and who might be her enemies.<br />Talented author Jan Grape explores the continuing prejudice against female cops, the emotional implications of a justified shooting, and writes a bang-up action story as well. As readers, we're dragged along with Zoe, thrust deep into the mystery, and thrown clues so fast that it's hard to sort out what's important and what isn't. Bits of the history of Austin, Texas's police force add some texture to the story and put Zoe's current job into its historical perspective.<br />I would have enjoyed a little more focus. Some of the events appeared to be either unconnected or connected by coincidence that stretch beyond normal reader credibility. Thanks to Grape's superior story-telling, these flaws don't detract much from novel's enjoyment, except to hint that Grape's next novel may be even better.	2002-02-04
1667911:US	49115690	R3LLQDD6EDSN3	0062730665	636126079	How to Write a Movie in 21 Days: The Inner Movie Method	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Great insights into movie writing, writing, and life	In this short (less than 200 pages) book, Viki King explores both a method for writing a movie and some of the basic issues that all writers must face from time to time. Although King is writing specifically about the movie business, her lessons are generally applicable to all types of writing. King addresses issues such as what to write, how to go about writing, and how to overcome obstacles.<br />Writers are frequently faced with the challenge of how to write when the rest of the world is calling on us to do something else. King's suggestions on the `junk job,' writing with (or without) partners, and creating time and place to write are universals that are valuable to all types of writers. I also enjoyed some of her tricks--creating the whole book with blank paper and an end note, then filling in the rest as you went--to overcome writers block. Writers who want to explore screenwriting, or who just want to look at writing from a different slant will enjoy HOW TO WRITE A MOVIE IN 21 DAYS.<br />Although I don't write screenplays, I re-read How to Write... occasionally just to remind myself of what I'm trying to do (write novels) and how to keep the priorities of my life straight. My wife, who does write screenplays, has adapted the Viki King approach to meet her needs--she finds that having her task for the day set out makes it a lot easier to get it done than if she was just given the formatting and plot and had to take it from there.<br />If you've ever thought about writing a movie, or if you're a writer looking for a little inspiration, I highly recommend this book.	2002-02-04
1670732:US	49115690	R16APE9SSX092P	044100895X	937988765	Ombria in Shadow	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A small masterpiece--excellent	Ombria is the greatest city in the world, but it has fallen on hard times. The Prince of the city lies dying, his son a young child, his mistress despised by the court, and the evil pirate witch Domina Pearl stands ready to become regent--and to thust Ombria into chaos. The nobles try to unite around Ducon Greve, the Prince's nephew, but Ducon's hands are tied by Domina Pearl's threat to the young prince.<br />Yet Ombria is more than a single city. It's history lies heavy on it, ghosts prowl the streets, and any alley or ruined shop might open the way into another city--a city in shadows. Deep within the city's underworld, a witch child, Mag, follows her witch-mistress's commands, but tries to understand, to think about what she is doing. Although her mistress supports Domina Pearl, Mag knows that she must be opposed.<br />Author Patricia A. McKillip has created a wonderful city of magic. Her descriptions of Ombria ring with truth. Mag, Ducon, and Domina Pearl stand out as complex and motivated characters and their decisions, and the conflict among them, drives the story forward. Even throw-away characters such as the young prince's tutor are fascinating in their own right.<br />OMBRIA IN SHADOW is a superior fantasy novel. On a small canvas, McKillip shows how wonderful fantasy can be.	2002-02-01
1673708:US	49115690	R1AQNWCLVUYSXR	0312203799	178839381	Whispers in the Dark (Marti MacAlister Mysteries)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	2 stories on a theme of mother-love gone bad	While African American police detective Marti Macalister pursues the mystery of the detached arms found in her county, her best friend Sharon considers running from her dying mother by marrying a relative stranger--a man who claims to love her but who tells her little of her past. Arms, without matching fingerprints, offer little hope of any identification and, as the arms were found over a number of years, they might not even be related to one another. Still, there seems to be a possible link to the artistic community. With that slim clue, Marti goes to work.<br />Author Eleanor Taylor Bland is completely convincing in her descriptions of African American life, the extended and generation-skipping families that some of them find themselve in, and in her descriptions of both slum and middle-class black life. The Sharon subplot comes to the forefront in the second half of this novel and is by far the stronger of the two major mysteries. Sharon is a disturbing, often unlikeable, and yet still sympathetic character as she continues to deny the reality that she faces.<br />while Marti is active in pursuing the truth in both of these mysteries, to a large extent, her efforts do not result in the resolution of the crime. Many readers may also find that the two subplots are insufficiently connected t justify being told in a single novel. These two subplots are actually connected by the shared theme of family and the damage that a misplaced or missing mother-love can create, but are unconnected from the plot perspective. Bland's capable writing carries the reader through the plot holes and leads to a reader-satisfying conclusion.	2002-01-30
1676288:US	49115690	R2CZYSO769ZIMB	0786235594	677861877	Sub Rosa (An Egidio Manfredi Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable-but with loose ends	Rosa Subiaco is a world-famous romance/glitz author with the nasty habit of kidnapping lovers and then disposing of them--sometimes permanently. When Rosa sees a woman dropping off a man, she acts impulsively to pick him up, only to learn that 'Grandpa' has Alzheimer's disease and is too old and incapable for romance. Rosa decides to get her revenge on Edna, the woman who abandoned 'Grandpa' and to see what happens from there.<br />By the time homicide detective Egidio Manfredi is called in, the case has spiraled from a missing person to kidnapping and murder. Lucy, the old man's loving granddaughter, is buffeted by one loss after another. Yet Manfredi knows that the killer won't hesitate to kill again if she feels threatened.<br />Author Ralph McInerny has created a clever tale of disfunction, misplaced revenge, and an author to whom reality is a somewhat distant concept. SUB ROSA is a quick and enjoyable read--sort of a guilty pleasure. The novel does have its flaws--putting a winning lottery ticket in the old man's pocket makes the whole story less believable without adding much to the story. Also, I was surprised by the loose ends left at the end of the short novel. Does Alex get the girl? Where is Nick? McInerny's quirky characters make up for these lacks.	2002-01-28
1677431:US	49115690	R1CJP4R21M2WS2	0425181685	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Great action, too much non-sexy sex	After a six month vacation, Anita Blake is called back to rescue one of the members of her pride of were-panthers. Her time away from Jean-Claude and Richard may have been necessary for her mental health, but it had consequences--destructive consequences. Richard's pack is disintegrating around him as he tries to impose his democratic ideals on a pack and status-oriented society. And someone is using the problems in a covert bid to take over not just the wolves, but the entire were-culture.<br />While rescuing her panthers, Anita is badly wounded and develops the symptoms of becoming a were, as well as taking on more of Jean-Claude's vampire traits. When an alpha male were-panther enters the scene, Richard, were-wolf king and Anita's lover, resists, threatening to become her enemy.<br />Author Laurell K. Hamilton has written a sexual thriller. Anita's cold-blooded realism, coupled with her moral belief structure allow her to be seen sympathetically despite the murder and sadistic behavior that she sometimes engages in. I found the action sequences to be powerful but the sexual sequences, which make up much of the middle of NARCISSUS IN CHAINS, fall short of being erotic--sexual without being sexy.<br />Anita Blake is an intriguing character (hence the huge popularity of this series), but NARCISSUS IN CHAINS does not present her in her best light.	2002-01-27
1683014:US	49115690	R2K1L2HFKG3E4	031287894X	105070466	The Slaying of the Shrew (Shakespeare & Smythe Mystery)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun look at Shakespeare getting his ideas and solving crimes	Tuck Smythe and his friend Will Shakespeare along with the Queen's Men, their theater company, are heading out of London to avoid the plague, and find a commission to play at a wedding. It should be a wonderful opportunity. Shakespeare has a chance to show his first play, and Tuck can visit with Elizabeth who serves as maid of honor to the bride. What could possibly go wrong? When the bride arrives, apparently murdered what can go wrong is frightfully apparent. Worse, the death of the shrewish older sister frees all the suitors to pursue the lustful Blanche--including the least scrupulous.<br />Author Simon Hawke writes with a light comic touch, yet with an insight into young love and accurate although not overdone historical insights. Fans of William Shakespeare will get a laugh out of Hawke's ideas of where some of his ideas, and many of his well-known lines emerged. Protagonist Tuck is an interesting and likable hero with an ambition to be an actor almost as strong as his stage fright. The twists and turns of this mystery combine Shakespeare's Taming of the Shrew with Romeo and Juliet and a bit of dozens of other plays.<br />Although it is a short novel, Hawke did spend a fair number of pages repeating what he'd already told the reader--clearly something to be avoided although, in the case of THE SLAYING OF THE SHREW, a fault that can easily be overlooked in the high quality and smooth writing.	2002-01-23
1685835:US	49115690	RITAYK3VMT4SV	0671318438	120255703	Marching Through Peachtree	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good character development in recast history	The war between the provinces drags on with the serf-holding north holding on despite advances by the south. After winning the battle in Franklin, the southern army faces a new opponent--one who intends to keep his army intact and to force the south to take losses for every mile of territory they conquer. Fortunately for the south, the northern generals are constantly back-stabbing their leader. If the southern population is willing to continue the battle, the blond serfs of the north may, eventually, be freed.<br />MARCHING THROUGH PEACHTREE is a fantasy novel (magic, dragons, flying carpets) version of the U.S. Civil War recounting Sherman's march through Georgia. This type of fantasy recasting of real historic events is something of a Harry Turtledove specialty and MARCHING THROUGH PEACHTREE is the best of these novels I've read yet. Turtledove gives the reader a full range of the battle, depicting the decisions and lives of both generals and privates. Ex-serf and blond Rollant is an especially interesting and sympathetic character.<br />Fans of epic fantasy may be disturbed by the moral ambiguity in MARCHING THROUGH PEACHTREE. Although the southern (U.S. northern) cause is depicted somewhat more sympathetically, the northern side also has its merits--there can be no pure battle between good and evil. To enforce the parallels to U.S. history, Turtledove is forced to introduce some rather extreme stretches--e.g., using magic carpets as a substitute for the all-important railroads. As always, when recounting historical events, the reader is forced to accept foolish decisions (because they actually happened) that no reader would accept in a pure fiction work (because no villain or hero would do anything that stupid).<br />If you enjoy this type of historical analogue novel, MARCHING THROUGH PEACHTREE is one of the best. It may be read independently of the earlier novel in this series.	2002-01-21
1689186:US	49115690	R1Q0UBNTUSF6PU	0312279973	271559216	Coffin's Ghost	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Very English but unsympathetic	Newly out of the hospital, commander John Coffin of London's mythical Second City police is confronted with a woman's severed arms and legs outside his former home. His thoughts turn to long abandoned affair--could the limbs belong to the woman? When a second women is murdered, Coffin begins to suspect his wife's friends. Yet with all of the police force at his disposal, no one seems to be able to find a real clue, or discover any reason why these attacks are happening now.<br />Author Gwendoline Butler does a fine job setting the scene in the 'second city' of London--a city of abandoned warehouses, crime, and poverty, with just the beginning of gentrification brought on by the theater. American readers may find Butler's Englishisms occasionally difficult to follow (although occasionally amusing--I especially enjoyed the police secretary with the pot plant (perhaps potted plant) on her desk).<br />With multiple murders, a dismembered woman and a decapitated cat, COFFIN'S GHOST should have been a fast-moving adventure. Instead, Butler's writing moves at a ponderous pace, leaving the reader both confused about where the plot is going and lethargic to find out. Coffin's regret over his affair seems more based on his fear of his wife's reaction to it than any realization that he made a mistake, and his treatment of the abandoned mistress is difficult to view sympathetically.	2002-01-18
1689469:US	49115690	R2HE1U2JJHURX2	0380977702	428441908	Shadows of Sin: A Jessie Drake Mystery (Jessie Drake Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Constant twists and a wonderful protagonist	A Los Angeles plastic surgeon and his staff are brutally shot and killed and LAPD detective Jessie Drake is assigned the case. There are plenty of motives--a patient has threatened revenge over a botched job, a nurse was recently fired, and the doctor has a history of affairs. Of course the family is always suspected. Yet, even with plenty of suspects, the hard evidence to convict anyone isn't there. And the one suspect Drake most wants to talk to, the adopted son of the slain doctor, keeps slipping through her hands.<br />Author Rochelle Krich has created a wonderful character in Jessie Drake. Her confused love life (she has recently ended an affair with her ex-husband), her history of abuse as a child, her fear of heights, and her exploration of her Jewish heritage add depth and interest. Like Drake, the mystery in SHADOWS OF SIN comes in layers of complexity with first one suspect, then another taking the primary position, with reality staying one step ahead of both Drake and the reader.<br />SHADOWS OF SIN is a fast-reading and page turning adventure. The killer is smart enough to throw suspicion off, and to play with everyone's sympathy, yet Drake is a bulldog after the truth. Topical references to the LAPD Ramparts nightmare add to the immediacy of the novel.	2002-01-18
1689920:US	49115690	R262OHDQL6RNF7	0786918810	534480918	Keep on the Borderlands (Greyhawk Classics)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Adventure Game in novel form	Swordswoman Eddis has just finished a job as a caravan job and is looking for a little relaxation when a new opportunity opens. Bandits have been raiding the local town, cutting off its trade routes and threatening its destruction. Together with adventurer Jerdren and a group of caravan guards and town armsmen, Eddis sets off on an adventure. What starts out as a simple raid on a bandit camp escalates to a full-scale cave invasion against kobolds, orcs, and the undead.<br />Author Ru Emerson keeps up a steady flow of adventure and conflict. In keeping with the Greyhawk series, the book frequently feels more like a role-playing game rather than a novel--with our heros entering a possibly infested cave, facing enemy guards, and pocketing some random treasure.<br />Fans of role-playing games may enjoy this novelization of what feels like a real game. Emerson works hard to add character depth to Eddis, with her semi-adoption of a young child as a major element in this. Fans of pure fantasy are likely to find that KEEP ON THE BORDERLAND lacks the stakes that make the novel compelling reading.	2002-01-17
1691078:US	49115690	REKRQWC34XQAS	0786919035	477546908	Queen of the Demonweb Pits (Greyhawk Classics)	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Enjoyable, action+humor--but predictable	Justicar, Henry, Enid (a sphinx), Escalla (a fairy), and Polk (a warrior turned badger) have defeated Lolth, Drow queen of the spiders, but they cannot kill her in any but her own plane. And now she is out for revenge, spending millions of spiders, drow wizards, trolls, and undead to destroy their planet. With only the talent and magic that they have learned, they must face a dark elf-turned god, her minions, and two enemies Lolth has pulled from their nightmares.<br />QUEEN OF THE DEMONWEB PITS combines continual adventure and action with humorous dialogue and characters. All of the four main heros, and especially Escalla, have their humorous sides as well as their warrior/mage powers. Polk, the ultra-serious chronicler/badger puts the entire adventure genre in perspective with his frequent advice that they take on unbeatable god-class enemies head-on with no strategy except glorious battle (needless to say, the other characters know better and at least attempt a bit of maneuver).<br />Readers of the genre will find QUEEN OF THE DEMON PITS to be somewhat predictable, but will certainly find it an enjoyable read.	2002-01-16
1694926:US	49115690	RB74NG26SMMRD	0312848765	887317376	The Precipice (The Asteroid Wars, Book 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Earth in the balance--one man must act	Dan Randolph has spent his life in a failed attempt to save the earth from her own errors. Now, global warming has accelerated, the seas are rising, and starvation is a real threat. Worse, politics prevents the earth from taking full advantage of space technologies and Dan's company teeters on the brink of bankruptcy. When a rich, if crooked entrepreneur suggests using fusion ships to mine the asteroid belts, Dan sees a way to finally make a difference, or lose everything.<br />Set in a near-future earth, author Ben Bova presents a frightfully realistic view of how the world may go. In the face of obvious disaster, the Earth has changed--but not in always constructive ways. The dominant New Morality movement sees anything that changes the present as a threat, and Dan's old enemies unite to prevent him from achieving his dreams. Only by using forbidden nano-technology, and by relying on a wild pilot/thief, can Dan have a chance to achieve his dream.<br />Bova is a long-time master of science fiction and writes a smooth and convincing tale. Both Dan Randolph and space-jock Pancho Lane are well developed and motivated characters. Bova, however, missed a chance to move his novel up a notch by making villain Martin Humprhies one-dimensional rather than allowing him a misguided heroism of his own.<br />Unlike many other novels of the near-future dystopia, Bova believes that the heroic individual can make a difference, and that makes THE PRECIPICE an enjoyable read. The novel is the first of THE ASTEROID WARS series, but may be read independently.<br />Three Stars	2002-01-14
1697194:US	49115690	R1FWHYW0TUZUSC	0786709685	212762357	Save the Last Dance for Me: A Sam McCain Mystery	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Snakes in church and America in 1960	Sam McCain, attorney and sometimes investigator for Judge Esme Whitney, thinks that he's seen a lot--but he's never seen a church full of people sticking their hands in a box of rattlesnakes before. When the church's minister dies suddenly, everyone thinks one of the snakes got him--but McCain suspects murder. When a second minister suddenly dies, he's certain there is a connection, but exactly what the connection is, and who might be doing the killing remains unclear. In the meantime, McCain has to learn to deal with the strong attraction he feels toward married Kylie Burke.<br />SAVE THE LAST DANCE FOR ME is set in small-town Iowa during the 1960 Kennedy/Nixon election and Nixon's upcoming visit is very much on the minds of the characters. The conservatives in town are worried about Catholics and Jews uniting to overthrow the nation if Kennedy is elected, and jazz and rock and roll are hitting their stride. Author Ed Gorman presents this earlier America not as a nostalgic dream, nor as a nightmare, but as a past that is well left behind.<br />Gorman does a fine job developing Sam McCain as an interesting and multidimensional character. His writing style is enjoyable and compelling. It'll make you want to keep reading. I found some of Gorman's observations to be a little cynical and condescending for my taste, but this didn't keep me from laughing out loud a couple of times or from enjoying SAVE THE LAST DANCE FOR ME.	2002-01-12
1698024:US	49115690	R3FJHL78RLYLM5	0373790147	109701824	Sleeping With The Enemy	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Powerful final chapters save this book	Dr. Dee (Destiny) Romine has survived a tough childhood and tougher adulthood. Her brother, a renegade FBI agent, is on the run and the FBI believes that Dee holds the key to his location. They'll stop at nothing to find him, even if it means sending in an agent to bend the rules and break her heart. Agent Chase Bracken doesn't mind bending the rules and he always gets his man. He won't feel good about lying to Dee, but that won't keep him from doing his job. Of course he knows where their relationship will go when Dee finally learns the truth.<br />SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY lays out a fine conflict and adds the hint of adventure to the sexual intrigue the typifies the Blaze imprint. Unfortunately, the first two thirds of this book are glacial in pace. Both Dee and Chase spend page after page in introspection, remasticating what few events took place in scene. Once Dee and Chase consumate their relationship, author Jamie Denton turns up the heat. Not only do her love scenes sizzle, but the characters start to show a wealth of emotion and connectedness that were missing through the earlier chapters.<br />It's easy to see why Denton is characterized as a rising star--she can write well. Unfortunately, many readers will have given up on this book before Denton starts to deliver.	2002-01-11
1699291:US	49115690	R7TKTY0UIOKI5	0679453067	668170725	Pursuit: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Exciting and filled with twists	When a diner in Louisville, Kentucky is the scene of a mass murder, the police call in profiler Dan Milliken to help them get a bead on the perpetrator. Milliken quickly determines that the murders are the work of a professional killer, one who knows what he's doing. One who left virtually no clues. The police are stumped. Because Milliken knows the assassin will kill again, he calls in his friend, Roy Prescott, a private investigator who specializes in hunting down killers. Thus begins a cat-and-mouse chase that pits two men of almost identical skills against each other, and the pursuit won't end until one of them is dead.<br />This finely crafted novel is told from several points of view, which is normally a disadvantage. As a reader I normally like to have one clear character to root for. In this case, however, it works. I would name Prescott as the main protagonist, but it's Milliken's decision to hire Prescott that puts everything in motion, and he checks in periodically. We also get inside the killer's head, sometimes for chapters at a time--and sometimes I almost felt sorry for him.<br />The pace is quick and suspenseful, the plot twists clever and surprising. After some gut-wrenching close calls, in which the villain makes incredible escapes, the end seemed a bit anti-climactic, but it was none-the-less satisfying. A solid page-turner.	2002-01-10
1699854:US	49115690	R3RUGIPUR81TOV	0373790112	934641323	Uninhibited	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful characters, sweet story	One of these days, Reed Sullivan is going to settle down, marry and have 2.2 children, and be moderately happy with his life. What he won't do is let his great-grandmother hustle him into a relationship. So when he finds that the latest babe at his great-grandmother's side is not a prospective wife but a businesswoman looking for an investment, why isn't he happy? Something is wrong with this picture and it centers around Zoe Moon--a woman who couldn't make him moderately anything if both of their lives depended on it.<br />Zoe is looking for an investor to help expand her cosmetics business. Reed's antipathy surprises her--she's used to men gaining a positive first impression--but her reaction to him is the real shock. Her mother proved to her that relying on hormones will get a woman in trouble every time but every time Zoe sees Reed, her hormones shift into high gear.<br />Author Candace Schuler has created two really interesting characters and a host of supporting characters that add a depth beyond the standard series romance. Recognizing that a story can become more sexy by denying rather than fulfilling the sexual urge, Schuler ratchets up the tension between her characters until neither they, nor the reader, can stand any more. Blaze readers may be surprised to find only one detailed love scene, but that one is a doozy.	2002-01-10
1703915:US	49115690	RP7UJNL660740	0312854935	570482678	Chapel Noir:  An Irene Adler Novel.	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The female in the Sherlock Holmes legend is back	Irene Adler and her sidekick Nell Huxleigh are visiting Paris when Irene is called to Paris. Two young prostitutes have been murdered and the deaths risk implicating the Prince of Wales and the Baron Rothchild--worse, the method of murder is highly reminiscent of the recent Jack the Ripper killings in London. Irene feels compelled to investigate using a combination of Holmes-like deduction and female intuition. What she finds is evidence that Jake the Ripper was not a solitary madman, but something more, something with purpose, and that Jack the Ripper certainly did not kill himself in London but survived to terrorize France.<br />Sometimes working in conjunction with, and sometimes in partnership with the vain Sherlock Holmes himself, Irene and Nell, along with Irene's adopted second sidekick Pink, adopt any manner of disguises to discover the truth about the Ripper, including whether Holmes himself might have been the crazed killer. Huxleigh, the primary narrative voice, adopts a generally amusing air of condescension, conformance to society's (Victorian) rules, and British superiority while Adler represents the rule-breaking genius.<br />Author Carole Nelson Douglas blends a nice mixture of female fashion, rules of convention, and exciting action in CHAPEL NOIR. The rivalry between Adler and Holmes is true to the original description of Adler in A SCANDEL IN BOHEMIA, with Douglas adding a female slant to the distinctly male-dominated Holmes legend. Douglas had left this historical-era character for several years, but has now returned after a stint writing Midnight Louis mysteries.<br />Be warned, at the end of nearly 500 pages, CHAPEL NOIR readers are left with a cliffhanger. This story will be concluded in a sequel.	2002-01-07
1711571:US	49115690	RWZGU61CVUPX6	0399147799	501345308	Death In Paradise (Jesse Stone Novels)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Great look at a fascinating character--Parker is back	When his after-softball game party is disrupted by the discovery of the body of a teenaged girl, murdered in his town, police chief Jesse Stone vows to track down the killer. But who is she? No one locally has reported a missing teen. The body is too badly decomposed to yield fingerprints. Only persistent detective work and a good bit of luck will give them a name, let alone a killer.<br />Stone is an intriguingly damaged protagonist. After being divorced for four years, he is still stuck on his ex-wife, unable to create a true relationship with any other woman. Alcohol cost him his job in Los Angeles homicide, but he can't give up that addiction either. Stone must confront himself, as well as whoever killed the young woman, before he can solve this mystery.<br />Author Robert B. Parker has created a page-turning and powerful story. At times, I found myself wanting to reach out and shake Stone until he got himself straightened up. Parker certainly knows what it means to be stuck on a woman and is convincing in his discussions of alcohol as well. Solid police work, and an insight into baseball as a metaphor for American maleness add to this fine novel. Although it lacks the characteristic dialogue of Parker's Spenser novels, DEATH IN PARADISE also gives Parker an opportunity to develop a new character away from that well-plowed ground.	2002-01-02
1711807:US	49115690	R5WBXKROWKVB6	0151006849	645828812	The Other Wind (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Profound look at life, death, and dragons	Minor sorcerer Alder has suffered from terrible dreams. He dreams that his wife, and countless other dead people, are calling him, begging him to set them free. To escape his dreams, he travels around the world of the Earthsea--and learns that he is seeing a true place. Yet even his problems seem small compared to the troubles that gather. The dragons are attacking, driving humans from islands where they have worked for generations. King Lebannen believes that the dream and the dragons are connected, but what can anyone do against dragons--or the dead?<br />Author Ursula K. Le Guin writes a different kind of fantasy. Rather than the huge battles and heroic characters of a Tolkien, Le Guin sets her tales on a smaller stage where the dangers are often personal rather than monumental. Still, the stakes in THE OTHER WIND are high indeed. For the dead &quot;live&quot; on in a strange halfway land, or at least some of the dead do. And Lebannen must both decide their fate and, somehow, break the barriers that confront immortal dragons as well as human wizzards.<br />Fans who look for more action may occasionally find this novel slow going, but Le Guin's almost poetic language and her thoughtful presentation of the issues of death and love make THE OTHER WIND a fine contribution to the fantasy genre of which Le Guin is a master.	2002-01-02
1712938:US	49115690	R1N7IGGXV96YEF	0525946284	583024749	Jackdaws	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Great suspense--all female team saves D-Day	D-Day is fast approaching, but the German army is too strong, too well coordinated, to assure success. And if the allied invasion failed, France and continental Europe will remain under Nazi control for years. A French resistance group, led by beautiful British spy Felicity (Flick) Clairet, is assigned a critical telecommunications center as a target but run into deadly resistance. Flick decides to go back, accompanied by an all-woman group who can pose as cleaners--but she doesn't count on the German counter-espionage expert, Major Dieter Franck, who picked up the pieces of her failed raid and sees her capture as a way of rolling up much of the French Resistance.<br />Much of the local support that Flick has counted on is already compromised by Dieter but she has no choice but to continue. D-Day has to be close--days or hours away, and failure by either side may literally mean the difference between winning and losing the war.<br />The war between Britain and Germany takes on a more personal tone as Dieter and Flick try to leapfrog the other, their motivations escalating from professional to highly personal over the course of the novel. Author Ken Follett does a wonderful job making Dieter somewhat sympathetic despite the Nazi regime he supports and the methods he uses to wring the truth from his captives. In the post-September 11 period, Dieter's identification of the French Resistance as terrorists adds impact to the story in a way that Follett probably did not expect.<br />Follett's story-telling is so smooth that JACKDAWS becomes almost experienced, like a movie, rather than a set of words on paper. I couldn't tell you much about Follett's style--I was too involved in the story.	2002-01-01
1714983:US	49115690	R1WMPSX61IA2IE	0312282060	757947270	Murphy's Law (A Molly Murphy Mystery) (Molly Murphy Mysteries)	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Good historical detail--too much coincidence in mystery	When she is forced to flee turn-of-the-century Ireland for killing her landlord, Molly Murphy assumes the identity of a woman heading for New York. When a murder occurs on Ellis Island, Molly is a suspect. By coincidence, the woman whose identity she assumed was from the same small town as the victim. To protect herself and the only friend she made on the ship (who, coincidentally, was also from the same small town), she has to discover the killer. Fortunately, Molly can't walk down the street without running into a suspect, each of whom is acting out his guilt.<br />Molly's extreme good luck is fortunate since all she knows about the killer is that he had whiskers (and she goes through much of MURPHY'S LAW accusing everyone with whiskers of the crime). (Coincidentally, Molly had gone walking on the night of the murder and seen the murderer).<br />Author Rhys Bowen is a talented enough writer to weave even a long string of coincidences into an interesting story. It is obvious that she has done extensive research on turn-of-the-century New York, and the historical detail is both interesting and well integrated into the story. Unfortunately, Molly Murphy, the protagonist, spends much of the novel with her nose in the air looking down on other people which, for this reviewer, at least, makes her so wonderfully unsympathetic that I had ambivalent feelings about her...	2001-12-30
1717020:US	49115690	R19EVSKQ5YD8NG	0446529540	552279058	Futureland	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Intelligent and dark look at the near future	In the not-too-distant future, major corporations have taken over the functions of the state and most workers have been reduced to a perpetual treadmill between subsistence work and a barely livable unemployment. For criminals and anyone who opposes the omnipresent corporate state, punishment is swift, certain, and enforced with dispassionate unconcern for rights or human dignity.<br />Author Walter Mosley's nine inter-related stories tell of this near-future and, especially, of the position of blacks in a supposedly racially integrated world. While occasional anarchistic resistance can slow the forces of capitalism run beyond any rules (and FUTURELAND is filled with stories of this resistance), the overall tendency of history cannot be stopped.<br />Although FUTURELAND was written before the events of 9/11, the encroachments on liberties that Mosley forecast in these stories appear far less paranoid and far more near at hand than they could have to the average reader when Mosley wrote them. Readers do not have to agree with Mosley's dark message, nor share his fears about neo-Nazis ready to cleanse the world of non-white blood, to see the frightening possibilities that Mosley shares.<br />In the initial story in this series, Whispers in the Dark, Mosley adopts a dialect-heavy style that makes reading difficult. Stick with FUTURELAND. The payoff is worth the effort and Mosley's later stories are far more approachable, from an ease of reading perspective, if even darker from their take on the world.	2001-12-28
1717520:US	49115690	R3HBDRWQT11XRK	0892967471	681692460	Murder on the Trans-Siberian Express: A Porfiry Petrovich Rostnikov Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful view of modern Russia	In Russia, the concept of law and justice has been shaken. Mafias rule towns and even regions, powerful men battle for even more power, and the ghosts of the Soviet and Imperial past haunt everyone's memories. Yet, the police must continue to function, criminals must somehow be brought to court if not to justice. Chief Inspector Porfiry Petrovich Rostnikov of the Office of Special Investigation is involved in three crimes, related only in the way that they show the breakdown in Russian society. A skinhead musician has been kidnapped; a killer is loose in Moscow's subways brutally knifing well dressed men; and somewhere on the route of the Trans-Siberian Railroad, a long-lost secret may be found--but only if someone is strong enough, and brutal enough, to pierce the layers of death that surrounds it.<br />Author Stuart M. Kaminsky has created a powerful vision of modern Russia and the men and women who police it, striving for justice despite their realization that this goal is unattainable. Rostnikov, in particular, is an interesting character with a rich history, a family that he cares for deeply yet cannot fully satisfy, and a boss whose goal is power rather than justice. Kaminsky has added depth to several of his other recurring characters, especially Zelach who shows an unexpected knowledge of rave music, and the brooding Emil Karpo.<br />MURDER ON THE TRANS-SIBERIAN EXPRESS feels authentically Russian. Kaminsky is able to present the heroism of the mundane in ways that reflect both the classic authors of Russia's past, and a far more lighthearted mystery tradition. Well Done.	2001-12-28
1720246:US	49115690	R3MW2NV28MUWUV	0312875827	667527293	Enchanter (The Wayfarer Redemption Trilogy, Bk 2)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Magical world but unlikable characters	From the north, ice wraiths swarm, threatening to wipe out all of the civilized people of Achar. Within Achar, one man seeks to preserve the ancient ways while his half-brother tries to create a new world based on uniting the three races who have warred for thousands of years. A third half-brother commands the wraiths and even more fearful spawn. Yet the heavy hand of prophesy, and an enchanter dead for thousands of years, weighs down on all of them.<br />Axis, bastard child of two races, attempts to fight the enemy from the north while creating a new world. Perhaps spurred on by the prophesy, good fortune follows him, bringing him new recruits, giving him access to enchanter secrets lost for thousands of years, and allowing him to prevail over enemies that seem overwhelming. Yet his own arrogance and his inability to choose between two women, wanting to keep both of them to himself, haunts him.<br />In ENCHANTER, author Sara Douglass continues her WAYFARER REDEMPTION series with Axis's march toward destiny and prophesy. Douglass handicapps herself by making Axis so fundamentally unlikable. Each of the three brothers seems so caught up in their own hatred and ambition, that it is sometimes difficult to remember that Axis is the hero of this story. Despite moments of clunky writing and long passages of exposition, Douglass's world-building skills are strong and she has created an intriguing and 'real' world of magic and power.<br />I would have preferred to see more character development and some sense that Axis has learned from what he has gone through. Still, ENCHANTER has its moments of pure magic.	2001-12-26
1724016:US	49115690	R1QGJYP22I9FRJ	067131839X	541218661	Pyramid Scheme	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun, great look at myth, with some plot holes	A black pyramid descends from space onto the University of Chicago campus and starts to grow, swallowing people and spitting many, but not all, of them out as corpses. One group, including two soldiers, a policeman, two professors, and a repairman, is the exception. They don't die. Inside the pyramid, they find an entire universe derived from ancient myth. Wily Odysseus (from Homer's Odyssey) wants to enslave them, the Olympian Gods want them dead, and some pyramid-related force is trying to control all of their actions while simultaneously attempting to provoke a nuclear attack by the U.S. government.<br />Authors Dave Freer and Eric Flint offer a fast-paced and largely light-hearted romp through the underside of the Greek myths. Rather than the sugar-coated version, Freer and Flint go back to the unvarnished originals where Zeus perpetually punishes Prometheus for his gift of fire to man, and where wise Athena turned a woman into a spider for daring to think that her weaving could compete with that of a god. At the same time, they develop characters that are both likable and believable.<br />While PYRAMID SCHEME is a likable romp, several plot holes weaken the story by making it seem episodic rather than fully integrated. The Olympian conflict between the present-day humans and the Olympian Gods is clearly a critical element in the story, yet it is unclear exactly how this conflict resolves the problems for the protagonists, nor how it impacts the pyramid-masters. The Odyssey elements don't really advance the plot at all. Finally, the escape from the pyramid could have been achieved without all of the rest of the story (and by the way, whatever happened to Police Lieutenant Salinas?).<br />Flaws aside, PYRAMID SCHEME is an enjoyable read. Likable characters and an action-filled story line certainly compensate for any structural problems and make this novel worth the investment.	2001-12-21
1728054:US	49115690	R13Q5FWLB941PQ	0312274580	881215189	Red Hook	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Exciting new talent	For NYPD Detective Jack Leightner, the murder of a young, Dominican immigrant should have been just another case. But the execution-style killing evokes strong, unwelcome feelings and sad memories for the seasoned detective, a member of the elite Brooklyn South Homicide Task Force. And when the only possible witness is also brutally murdered, Jack starts to have serious doubts about his career, his past, his family, and sometimes his sanity. In the midst of the investigation, Jack is struggling to find common ground with his son, an aspiring documentary filmmaker.<br />Just as the case heats up, Jack is warned away by his superior. Has he become obsessed? Or is he just a thorough investigator?<br />I love picking up a first novel, with the (usually futile) hope that I'll get in on the ground floor, be one of the clever readers &quot;in the know&quot; who discovers a rare genius. Usually, of course, I'm disappointed. This time, however, I was delightfully surprised. Gabriel Cohen tells an absorbing tale fraught with emotion and realism. The characters are so genuine I half-expected to find their numbers in my Rolodex. The plot is fresh, yet not so outlandish as to stretch credibility. But the real shining star of his book is Cohen's sense of place. I'd never even heard of the neighborhood of Red Hook, until Cohen brought it to life for me. Now I feel like I've actually walked the cracked sidewalks. If he has more books like this in him, Cohen has a long, successful career in his future.	2001-12-18
1733067:US	49115690	R36IHBKAWYXJKF	0671318446	717340844	Martian Knightlife	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Cute but lightweight	Kieran Thane, alias the Knight, is in the business or sorting things out. On Mars, he has plenty of opportunities. A research company has discovered a way of transporting living organisms--a method that involves creating an exact duplicate at the receiving end. What happens to the original is somewhat arbitrary. Complications ensue--complications that only the Knight can deal with. Resolving this problem, however, only leads to escalating issues. The syndicate is anxious to get their money back, and the Knight heads off with a group that is exploring Martian archeology--and discovering ancient structures that could have only been built by the earthly pyramid builders.<br />MARTIAN KNIGHTLIFE combines tongue-in-cheek adventure with mystical mysteries. Veteran science fiction author James P. Hogan keeps up a steady stream of adventure while hinting at a fascinating new society developing in Mars. Kieran Thane is something of a science fiction version of John D. McDonald's Travis McGee, the thinking man's Robin Hood. Although Hogan doesn't dwell on the gritty philosophy of life the way McDonald does, it is certainly there in this novel with its combination of future dystopia and hope.	2001-12-14
1735307:US	49115690	R6H9YTYGAZR38	0060012331	665449973	The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Tongue-in-cheek fairy tale	Maurice (a talking cat), Keith the stupid-looking kid, and a clan of intelligent talking rats have a good thing going. Keith can play the penny-whistle and the rats can manage a rat infestation better than anyone. The Pied Piper had nothing on their scam. At least until the rats' increasing intelligence starts to come with the price of a conscience. They finally agree on one last job--but the existing rat catchers in Bad Blintz (author Terry Pratchett always picks good town names) have their own plots going and their schemes look like bad news for Maurice and the clan.<br />Pratchett has created a tongue-in-cheek fairy tale set in his Discworld. The rats and Maurice struggle with the dawning of conscience--Maurice always gives his victims a chance to talk before he eats them, with their place in the world, and with the powerful rat-king who wants to use their power for war against the humans.<br />Human characters, especially Keith and Malicia, play supporting roles but the real stars in this novel. Malicia's (often successful) attempts to create a story out of life frustrate Keith while providing worthwhile lessons (if you aren't making the story, you're a bit character in someone else's story) for both other characters and the readers. Overall, though, the rats--all given amusing names they selected from reading labels (Dangerous Beans is a favorite) are the most interesting characters and characters with the most compelling character arcs.<br />I sat down to read THE AMAZING MAURICE AND HIS EDUCATED RODENTS, and didn't get up until I'd finished it--with a lot of laughs in the process. This novel probably won't change your life, but it just might.	2001-12-12
1738333:US	49115690	R9R0CO6PEQN4N	0312874847	189150279	Mother Ocean, Daughter Sea	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Wonderful world building, history lessons, luck weaken plot	Brierley Mcfell is a witch, descended from the all-but extinct shari'a and still living under the absolute prohibition of all witches. Yet, her healing gift is a calling that Brierley cannot deny no matter how much danger it puts her in. When the pregnant wife of the local Earl, Melfallan Courtray lies dying in an assassination attempt, Brierley brings her powers to bear, healing the woman and exposing her fatal secret to the world.<br />Melfallan would just as soon reward Brierley as punish her, but he is only an Earl and the Duke has other plans--plans that include using protecting a witch to overthrow Melfallan and replacing him with someone more compliant. It would suit the Duke just fine if Brierley confesses, then conveniently vanishes, leaving Melfallan completely exposed and without the venu of a trial to attempt to bring down the Duke. Somehow Melfallan has to protect herself and also the unique successor she finds in the Duke's capital--a shari'a witch almost overwhelmed by her secret.<br />Author Diana Marcellas's world-building skills are everywhere evident in MOTHER OCEAN, DAUGHTER SEA. The genocidal history of the peoples who populate her world, the powers of the witches, and the strange technical/magical beings who supplement the purely magical powers of the witches, make for interesting reading and set the stage for more books in this series. At times, Marcellas's narrative becomes lost in retrospectives about the history of her land.<br />Perhaps it is this reviewer's flaw rather than that of the novel, but I found the romantic development between the Brierley and the married Melfallan to be disturbing, especially as neither seemed much concerned about the impact that their relationship would have on Melfallan's wife. I would also have enjoyed the book more if Brierley had succeeded more through her own actions rather than through luck or through the efforts of others.	2001-12-10
1740974:US	49115690	R1V8QCDBMWQIKF	1566491770	564985993	Death from the Snows	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Convincing look into a paralyzed woman in danger	Elise Andrioli is paralyzed except her left hand with which she can write, blind, and mute, yet she can hear what is going on around her--and what is going on is terrible. In a ski resort in the French Alps, someone is torture/murdering women and leaving Elise grim threats that she will be the next. While she visits an institution for the care of disabled patients, Elise feels the threat growing, yet can do nothing to head off the danger.<br />Author Brigitte Aubert does a powerfully convincing job describing the mental workings of a woman deprived of some of the most important human connections to the world. Elise keeps her cool, trying to reason her way through the horrible and irrational things that are going on around her while painfully dependent on others for her continued survival. The first two hundred pages of this novel are intriguing and cerebral, followed by fifty pages of action as the threat finally unveils itself and danger surrounds Elise.<br />Elise is a wonderful and fully developed character. Her thoughts offer insights not only into the crimes that she faces, but into the lives of those of us not limited by the damage Elise has suffered. I found Elise's gradual unveiling of the murders in the bulk of the novel to be more powerful than the pure thriller aspects of the conclusion. Did Aubert mean for the conclusion to be as darkly comic as it reads, or is this reviewer simply becoming cynical?<br />DEATH FROM THE SNOWS is a mature and memorable work from France's leading female thriller author.	2001-12-08
1745094:US	49115690	R1FNDCCHY868L0	0061051799	516762020	Guardians of the Lost (Sovereign Stone Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent addition to a great series	For years, Dominion Lord Gustav has pursued the quixotic quest of recovering the lost human segment of the Sovereign Stone--the mystical stone that gives power to its holder and, when united with the stones held by the other races, creates a direct link to the gods themselves. Now, Gustav has finally discovered a reliable clue, but he is not alone in his search. Dagnarus, prince of the Void, seeks the stone as well. If he recovers it, he can achieve his goal of absolute control over the entire world. Although Dagnarus was frustrated in his attempt to seize power two hundred years earlier, he has regrouped his forces and prevail even if the power of the stones unites against him. With the stone, Dagnarus is unstoppable.<br />A Dominion Lord is a powerful entity, but so are the death knights or Vrykyls that Dagnarus controls. In the conflict that follows, both are badly wounded. Unable to fulfil his quest, Gustav passes off the stone to a pair of young men who must bring the stone to safety across thousands of miles of dangerous territory. Meanwhile, Dagnarus has launched his attack and no one, especially not a pair of young men with an ancient woman, is safe.<br />Authors Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman use multiple narrative paths to describe the fates of the two young men (Jessan, a human and Bashae, a pecwae), the Dwarf Wolfram, and the warrior Raven, Jessan's uncle. The relatively small number of intertwined plots allows the reader to stay grounded rather than being overwhelmed with a large number of characters and story lines.<br />In GUARDIANS OF THE LOST, the lines between good and evil are more brightly drawn and Dagnarus never becomes a sympathetic character (unlike WELL OF DARKNESS where Dagnarus is a major protagonist). Unlike many 'middle' books in fantasy trilogies, GUARDIANS OF THE LOST is a complete and fascinating narrative with both characterization and world-building to entertain the most critical fan.	2001-12-05
1745691:US	49115690	RF9HLETS4VD9U	1551668475	257966809	Trouble Becomes Her	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Trouble certainly doesn't bother her anyway	Sally Harrington enjoys her job at DBS News in New York even if it does involve working weird hours, covering for a boss who is keeping her cancer treatments a secret, and frequent travel. When she's asked to work on a special on a Mafia murder case, Sally has qualms, however. She is expected to be called as a witness in the case. Still, as he boss explains, who better to present the news.<br />When the police find a murdered body in the trunk of Sally's rental car, the story escalates from simple news to escalating danger. Sally's life is repeatedly threatened, yet she has no clue why anyone would be trying to kill her, nor how she manages to escape. Unfortunately, at this exact moment, Sally's love life explodes. Suddenly she finds herself with a student-intern with a crush, two men who want to reestablish former relationships, and a beautiful movie star who wouldn't mind broadening Sally's love horizons.<br />Author Laura Van Wormer's writing is spunky and Sally comes across as a character--certain to provide some smiles to the reader. I found it disconcerting, however, that Sally worries more about where her relationships are going than about repeated attempts to murder her. In a mystery novel like this, I would have thought that Sally would have exerted more efforts toward either protecting herself or finding the truth about what is actually happening. In fact, other people provide her with this information without Sally having to take time out of her busy schedule.<br />TROUBLE BECOMES HER is an enjoyable read that just misses clicking into high gear.	2001-12-05
1747835:US	49115690	RLYTJCSAMW41G	0765300958	926641580	Ghost of the White Nights (Ghost Trilogy)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great characterization, intriguing alternative history	Johan Eschbach is perfectly content with his life as a college Professor of Environmental Economics and the husband of Llysette, a classical singer. When his government calls both of them into service, Johan finds himself returning to a past that he had thought was long behind him--that of a spy and assassin.<br />In this powerful alternative history novel, Austria-Hungary, allied with Prussia/Germany, sits astride a conquered Europe with only Russia, Sweden, and the fading Ottoman Turks remaining to face it. With both conventional weapons and the ability to create zombie armies, Austria-Hungary is content to nibble away at its enemies. In America, Columbia (representing most of what is the United States and the maritime provinces of Canada in our reality) suffers under the energy blockade that Austria-Hungary now imposes. Under the cover of an artistic exchange, Johan is sent to Russia to negotiate oil leases in Russian Alaska.<br />Russia, still ruled by the Tsars, is a challenge to Johan. The rocket branch of the Russian military seems intent on foiling the oil deal despite the obvious benefits to all parties. Johan comes to suspect a threat to the entire world order--one that neither Russia nor Columbia is likely to survive. Yet what can one man do against the intrenched bureaucracy of a centuries-old state?<br />Author L. E. Modesitt, Jr. brings his emotionally compelling writing to a fascinating alternative history--one vaguely reminisent of Jules Verne, with its steam automobiles, dirigible travel, and its still-surviving Imperial heads of state, yet with a supernatural element of ghosts making their presence felt. Despite a few loose ends (what, exactly, was that bombing about), Modesitt delivers an exciting story with fully human characters. Johan, in particular, is wonderfully sympathetic as an aging college professor forced back into a way of life that he had thought behind him, now with the need to protect his wife as well as his country.<br />Fans of Modesitt's pure fantasy as well as alternative history buffs will enjoy GHOST OF THE WHITE NIGHTS.f Modesitt's pure fantasy as well as alternative history buffs will enjoy GHOST OF THE WHITE NIGHTS.	2001-12-03
1750996:US	49115690	R166TOQEHV1FK6	0670030074	86898519	Ambrose Bierce and the Death of Kings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well written, fun, and interesting mystery	It is near the end of the 19th century and America's destiny seems to compell it to reach further west, to the independent kingdom of Hawaii, already largely dominated by the descendents of white missionaries now turned merchants and sugar barons. The King of Hawaii is in San Francisco, dying without clear indication of the succession. When a Hawaiina princess vanishes, poet and newspaper columnist Ambrose Bierce is called upon to find her. Bierce, in turn, asks for help from his friend Tom Redmond, the novel's narrator.<br />From the start, it is clear that there is more than a missing person. Bierce and Redmond run into the woman's sufferage movement, spiritualism, and the powerful force of Hawaiian magic. When a Hawaiian judge is found murdered, Redmond finds himself under attack from Hawaiian magic.<br />Author Oakley Hall has created a delightful view of America at the turn of an earlier century. Bierce, with his cynical, yet somehow optimistic, view of the world, makes an effective sleuth, doomed to be disappointed by those he attempts to save. Negative historical attitudes toward women and persons of color are integrated into the story without apology yet without any sense of approval either.<br />As Bierce explains near the end of the novel, all of the clues are available to the reader. Even those mystery readers who guess the killer will enjoy Hall's smooth writing, the depth of historical detail, and the insights into an important historical/literary figure in Ambrose Bierce, turn of the 19th century America, and the end of the history of Hawaii as an independent country.<br />A well written and completely enjoyable novel.	2001-11-30
1753897:US	49115690	R1PEZWU6GBC7FZ	1890208620	998531117	Mute Witness (Anne Cartier Mysteries)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Interesting history, coincidence solves the mystery	When she learns of her stepfather's death, Anne Cartier joins handsome Colonel Paul De Saint-Martin in a trip to Paris. She is certain that he could not be guilty of the murder and suicide that the French officials have accused him of. Once in Paris, however, Anne learns that her stepfather's death is part of a larger scheme--a scheme involving some of the most important men in Ancien Regime France and huge thefts of precious jems and art works.<br />Through a repeated series of lucky coincidences, Anne, a teacher of the deaf, discovers a secret witness to the murder her stepfather was accused of, narrowly averts being abducted into a sadists lair, and discovers the secrets of the jewel thefts that shock all of France. Despite a complete unwillingness to take any precautions, Anne somehow manages to survive, eventually uncovering the full magnitude of the plot.<br />Author Charles O'Brien has set his historical mystery, MUTE WITNESS in the fascinating time immediately before the French Revolution. France continues to reel under the debt load it took on in its efforts to help America win its independence and is held hostage by bankers with ever-greater power. Thomas Jefferson walks the streets of Paris and Voltaire, Rousseau, and the other intellectual giants of the enlightenment are remembered firsthand.<br />Underdeveloped characters and a string of lucky coincidences marr a novel that shows real promise.	2001-11-28
1754614:US	49115690	R3GWDDRJ7VS9UI	0312269382	825548912	Emerald Aisle	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More excitement at Notre Dame University	Joseph Primero, wealthy Catholic book collector, discovers that some of his most valuable works have been stolen and hires detectives (and Notre Dame professor) Roger and Philip Knight to find the thief. The obvious suspect, Primero's estranged wife Bianca, admits to hating Primero's books, but Primero won't believe the Knight's evidence. When Bianca is discovered dead, the Knights feel compelled to add this to the list of crimes to be investigated.<br />The problem is not a lack of motives. Bianca's lover is a lawyer recently engaged to a Notre Dame alumnae. Either the lawyer or his fiancee Dolores would have reason to take steps to eliminate the grasping and vindictive woman. Dolores's former love interest is strangely compelled to protect her from the lawyer--setting him up as the fall guy might win back his former love. Primero loved his wife, but could he have been pushed too far. Primero's favorite candidate is his archivist who cannot deny both a fascination and an aversion to the victim.<br />Moving among familiar landmarks on the Notre Dame campus, and mixing detection with Catholic thought, the Knight brothers uncover plenty of facts about the case. But facts, themselves, can be interpreted in multiple ways.<br />As with the previous mysteries in this series, author Ralph McInerny provides a smooth and fast-moving mystery. The selection of two dissimilar brothers, one a career detective and the other an overweight Catholic intellectual makes for interesting contrasts and the opportunity to approach the mystery from intellectual and ethical points of view rather than as a simple fact-finding mission.<br />McInerny's women seem less well crafted than the male characters, allmost all of whom wrestle with moral dilemnas (in contrast, the women hurry to throw off their careers to get married and plan weddings). Still, this doesn't prevent EMERALD AISLE from being an enjoyable fast read.	2001-11-28
1757942:US	49115690	RKQBGQLL9IIVC	0312878060	98235474	Maelstrom (Rifters Trilogy)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fascinating view of the end of the world	In the near future, planet Earth is reaching breakdown. More and more of the world's economy goes into plugging the holes created by that economy--holes in the ecology, holes created by terrorism, holes created by pharmaceutical firms creating demand for their own products, and holes created by the proliferation of worms and viruses within what used to be called the Internet and is now called the Maelstrom. Somehow, Earth muddles by, yet more and more frequently, quarantine lines are drawn and people die.<br />To feed North America's ever-growing demand for energy, engineers have tapped every source including geothermal energy flowing deep beneath the sea. An explosion in the deep Pacific sets off a wave of destruction that is almost too much for the battered world--an explosion designed to eliminate the greatest threat to life on the planet that has ever existed, a hungry nanobe completely lacking in predators, yet supremely capable of adapting to the new environment. And the nanobe has a vector--one of the victims of the deep-sea explosion has made it to land, spreading the disease en route to her revenge.<br />Within the Maelstrom itself, artificial lifeforms nearly as dangerous as the nanobe exist, evolving through trial and error at a rate of thousands of generations each second. These computer virusses both echo and adopt tne nanobe virus, discovering that its name, and the name of its vector, are passwords to the most powerful and secret systems.<br />Author Peter Watts has created a compelling and convincingly dark view of the future. Extrapolating today's headlines into the near future, Watts' vision rings frighteningly authentic. Intriguingly, Watts sees the potential end of DNA-based life as morally ambiguous. Rather than the traditional SF approach of uniting the forces of good to battle ultimate destruction, those fighting the virus are mostly evil themselves while the good find themselves in a curious alliance with ultimate destruction.<br />MAELSTROM is an issues novel and suffers from one of the problems endemic to this kind of book--its characters lack full development and are difficult to identify with. Watts tries to overcome this by giving deep-sea survivor Lenie Clark a truly interesting background, yet he is only partially successful in this attempt.<br />Fans of dystopic science fiction will find MAELSTROM a hotbed of ideas, concerns, and partially explored moral consequences. Love it or hate it, MAELSTROM is a fascinating and powerful novel.ROM is an issues novel and suffers from one of the problems endemic to this kind of book--its characters lack full development and are difficult to identify with. Watts tries to overcome this by giving deep-sea survivor Lenie Clark a truly interesting background, yet he is only partially successful in this attempt. <br />Fans of dystopic science fiction will find MAELSTROM a hotbed of ideas, concerns, and partially explored moral consequences. Love it or hate it, MAELSTROM is a fascinating and powerful novel.	2001-11-26
1759509:US	49115690	R2QYHK4RS4TLFU	006019832X	82560035	Hope to Die (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Thoughtful and human Matthew Scudder tale	In the latest installment of Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series, the alcoholic private detective is brought into a murder case. The police have officially closed the case--a burglary gone fatally wrong, but Scudder thinks the whole thing a little too cute. Still, what possible motive could the killers have if not burglary, and the police recover the stolen goods.<br />Before he can find the killer, Scudder must prove that a murder has actually taken place. The police are suddenly more agreeable when another murder takes place, but Scudder has neither a suspect, a motive, or any evidence. Meanwhile, Scudder continues with his life, dealing with his disfunctional family, the sudden death of his ex-wife, and the continuing urges of alcohol even after eighteen years of abstinence.<br />Lawrence Block is one of the most popular mystery authors today and his Matthew Scudder series represents the author at the height of his power. Scudder feels like a real person, dealing with human failings, yet continuing because the alternative is surrender and Scudder knows that doesn't work. Block tells part of the story from the perspective of the killer--something that he does almost too convincingly.<br />HOPE TO DIE is smoothly written with a fine balance of plot and character. All of Block's characters live in a world where perfection is impossible making HOPE TO DIE as real as a headline, yet with the opportunity to truly look into the souls of such interesting characters.	2001-11-24
1760438:US	49115690	R3Q0KWWPVP7I4H	031220907X	504661909	A Romantic Way to Die (Sheriff Dan Rhodes Mysteries, No. 11)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great characters with fun insights into writers	Sheriff Dan Rhodes finds a traffic jam at the Clearview Texas Wallmart--all caused by a romance book signing, attended by hunk cover model Terry Don Coslin. Coslin is also the star of a writers' retreat in Clearview, an event attended by both local author wanna-be's, and well know authors from around the U.S. When one of the authors ends up dead, and the draft of her novel accuses most of the other writers of theft, cheating, and sleeping their way to the top of the publishing industry, Rhodes realizes that writers can be deadly. The only problem is, with a book like that, the list of people who might want Henrietta dead is a long one--but everyone seems to have an alibi.<br />Rhodes' investigation into the murder is hampered by the character-filled natives of Clearview Texas, one of whom claims that Terry Don Coslin is a peeping tom while others see ghosts at the local funeral home. Still, Rhodes keeps working away at the crimes, trying to unravel the lies told by authors--generally recognized as the one group who tells lies for money.<br />Author Bill Crider does a fine job characterizing a good-ole-boy Texas Sheriff who is plenty smart while still being a man of the people. Crider's Sheriff Rhodes approaches life with an attitude that can't help bring a smile to the reader's face. Anyone connected to the publishing industry will also enjoy the characterization of the writers' retreat, and the perpetual love-hate relationship between published and unpublished (a.k.a. prepublished) members of the writing community.<br />BooksForABuck	2001-11-23
1761221:US	49115690	RJADNAKVXEA0Y	0312269528	790858915	Breaking and Entering	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An interesting take on police science in India	Inspector Ganesh Ghote is assigned Bombay's second most important case. While the rest of the elite Crime Bureau pursues the murder of one of Bombay's influential and well-protected millionaires, Ghote is supposed to track a mysterious jewel thief. This thief climbs high buildings, entering through open windows, and steals only a single item--always the most expensive and precious. Unfortunately, the police have already investigated and Ghote is stuck with looking into aging evidence and interviewing the rich and influential women whose jewels were stolen.<br />To Ghote's consternation, he runs into Swede Axel Svensson, formerly with UNESCO and now a tourist in India who insists on being included in Ghote's work. While the huge European provides strong backup, he can also be counted on to wallow through the sensibilities of the upper class victims of the burgular.<br />Author H. R. F. Keating offers an interesting look into policework in India. Ghote seems to be a different person when he deals with the wealthy and influential, and when he meets with their servants and the lower classes. Svensson is alternately disappointed by Ghote's reluctance to press his rich witnesses, and shocked by his harsh treatment of the lower classes.<br />The relationship between the two men is odd and somewhat disturbing. Ghote seems to hold Svensson in contempt, growing angry with the Swede's repeated failures to correctly pronounce Indian names and susceptability to Indian beggars, yet repeatedly calling on Svensson for aid. Svennson thinks of Ghote as his friend despite the way Ghote mistreates him.	2001-11-23
1762813:US	49115690	R1HRNQ7YU3SJH6	0061050318	795110281	The Mystic Rose	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Fascinating history, unlikable characters	When her father is murdered in the Basilica Santa Sophia, Caitriona vows revenge against the master of the Knights Templar who performed the cold-blooded assasination. When she sneaks into the Templar's castle, her first attempt at revenge is foiled partly by a white-robed monk (or the spirit of such a monk) who invites her to renew her family's longstanding bond with the Celtic Church. Cait, agrees, but vows to continue her search for revenge--a search that seems closer than ever to fruition when the monk points out a letter describing the location of the 'mystic rose,' or the Holy Grail.<br />Cait sets off with her sister and a small group of knights to locate the Grail, now believed to be located in Spain. Behind her, the Templars follow, searching both for the Grail and for the woman who stole the letter. Conflict is inevitable--should Cait live long enough in the face of Moorish bandits, love-lorn Arab noblemen, and her ongoing conflict with her sister.<br />THE MYSTIC ROSE is the third and final volume in author Stephen R. Lawhead's CELTIC CRUSADE series. The crusades represent a critical period in western history--a time when the leadership of Europe was wrested from the faltering hands of Byzantium by the combined attacks of the Turks on the east and the kingdoms of the west (France, Norman Sicily, the Italian states, especially Venice, and Germany). Religious artifacts of any kind were key elements of both commerce and power. The three artifacts that this series concerns itself with--the Lance that killed Christ, the Cross that bore him, and the Cup of the last supper) are perhaps the most holy in the Christian world (perhaps joined by the Ark of the Covenant).<br />Unfortunately, Lawhead's characters are not up to the history that surrounds them, nor to the artifacts they search for. Cait is continually angry, ignoring her promise to her father to forswear revenge and the clear warnings given by holy visions as well as common sense. She treats her sister like the poor woman is beneath contempt. Worse, she behaves irrationally and impulsively. Although this provides the basis for character growth, by the time Cait is ready to grow, I wasn't much interested in seeing it.r like the poor woman is beneath contempt. Worse, she behaves irrationally and impulsively. Although this provides the basis for character growth, by the time Cait is ready to grow, I wasn't much interested in seeing it.	2001-11-21
1765279:US	49115690	R1ZIZIVFL5ZHPL	0385335296	474831124	No Man's Mistress	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Emotionally satisfying	Life seems just about perfect for Viola Thornhill. She owns a profitable English estate, makes enough from the rents to support her family, and is respected in the community. When Lord Ferdinand Dudley arrives and announces that he has won her estate in a card game, she reacts with disbelief, then increasing horor. If she doesn't really own Pinewood Manor, then her future is in danger--and she may have to return to the horrors of the past.<br />As a younger son, Ferdinand sees property, even a minor estate, as something special. He is surprised to find a woman living in his estate, but firm that the title lawfully rests with him. He is an English gentleman and that means that he'll make sure that Viola finds some suitable situation, but his leniency goes only so far. The undeniable attraction Viola holds for him--an attraction he's never felt for another woman--is something to be denied. One thing Ferdinand knows--marriage and love are myths, not reality.<br />Talented author Mary Balogh continues where she left off in MORE THAN A MISTRESS. Using the backdrop of Regency England, where reputation matters more than reality, Balogh spins a fine story of love and doubt.<br />One aspect of NO MAN'S MISTRESS weakened the otherwise compelling novel, however. Even when Ferdinand knew the worst about her, Viola never explained her motivations and her danger to him. While this device may have enhanced the conflict between them, the conflict seemed contrived.<br />Balogh's strong conclusion delivered a strong and satisfying emotional impact.	2001-11-19
1765498:US	49115690	R1ZKZ7XCJOLWRU	0671034421	305895234	Open Season	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fine blend of suspense and romance--with a touch of humor	On her thirty-fourth birthday, Daisy Minor has had enough. She's tired of being boring, ready to dance, date, fall in love, and get married. Of course she has no idea how to do any of those things, but she's ready for a makeover. She won't be a good girl any more, and knows she can't be a bad girl. What she can be, though, is a party girl--and she does intend to party.<br />Chief of police Jack Russo has noticed Daisy before, but when she turns into the blonde bombshell, he does more than notice. Especially since Daisy doesn't seem to have a clue how to behave in the dangerous world she lives in. Date rape and worse are possible even in small-town Alabama, and Daisy seems too innocent to survive. Of course taking care of Daisy is a pleasure in itself, even if she does get mad that he's getting in the way of her having a good time and finding the right man. One thing they both know, Jack can't be the right man.<br />With a suspense subplot involving kidnapped foreign women brought to America for sexual exploitation and murder, author Linda Howard has created a delightful blend of romance and plot. Someone in their small town will stop at nothing to protect their illegal enterprise, and Daisy finds herself in the crosshairs.<br />OPEN SEASON is a page-turning read. Jack and Daisy are believable and their romance seems human and gentle while maintaining a strong sexual attraction. I especially liked Howard's secondary characters including the slimy mayor Temple Nolan and especially the plotting criminal Glenn Sykes. With Sykes, in particular, Howard provides a fine (and difficult) balance between pure evil and a fully sympathetic character.	2001-11-19
1769117:US	49115690	R2WL2ENXM5AI70	0756400082	857098729	Take a Thief (Valdemar)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Valdemar, but smaller	For Skif, joining a small band of thieves is a huge step up in the world. For the first time in his life, he has a warn place to sleep, enough (if barely) to eat, and someone to teach him useful skills (like pickpocketing). When a fire destroys his new family and arson is rumored, Skif vowes revenge. His plots, however, are severely disrupted when he is selected by a 'companion.' Instead of simply being a thief, Skif is the first thief-Herald.<br />TAKE A THIEF is an intriguing addition to author Mercedes Lackey's Valdemar series. Skif is an engaging character. His turn to thiefery fully understandable given the rough conditions of his upbringing and the alternatives available to him. Lackey's description of the bond between human and companion (a horse-like sapient creature capable of mental communications directly with a selected human and with other companions) is emotionally compelling and vivid.<br />TAKE A THIEF plays for relatively small stakes in the Valdemar universe. Instead of great evils that threaten the world, Skif must deal with kidnappers, arsonists, and lords with too much money and not enough sense. The smaller scape of this novel means that more of the enjoyment comes from Lackey's fine descriptions of the city and its poverty-stricken slums.<br />Although Lackey doesn't avoid describing the evils of poverty (including alcoholism, prostitution, and human slavery), the thief band she describes are probably just a little too perfect to be credible even in a fantasy universe like that of Valdemar. Still, TAKE A THIEF is a fine read, enhanced by Lackey's engaging style.	2001-11-16
1769249:US	49115690	R2Z316NU4UGC8Z	0312277628	523336057	Shakespeare's Counselor (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very satisfying mix of mystery and character	Lily Bard joins a rape recovery group to help deal with her own issues. She doesn't expect to have to deal with the counselor's issues too. Except that psychological counselor Tamsin Lynd has problems. Although she has fled her previous home, someone has followed, stalking her, staking out a dead squirrel in her yard, and finally escalating to murder. Lily knows she won't find peace herself until she helps track down the person who is doing these things--or could Tamsin be doing them herself?<br />Author Charlaine Harris writes sympathetically about a woman whose faith in men was brutally betrayed and who is fighting to restore at least part of this trust. What happens to Tamsin shakes Lily's relationship with her new husband Jack, and threatens to open all of her old wounds. Harris's descriptions of small town living in Shakespeare, Arkansas also ring true, vividly presenting a part of the world that is alien to many of us without either glorifying or diminishing its unique character.<br />SHAKESPEARE'S COUNSELOR delivers fine character development, character growth, and a compelling mystery plot. This short (232 pages in the hardback edition) novel delivers an emotional wallop.<br />Well done.	2001-11-16
1771226:US	49115690	R3CSPGI2Q742QI	0061052604	173162111	Hammerfall (Gene Wars)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rewards the effort	C. J. Cherryh's novels aren't always the easiest to read, but they generally reward the effort you put into them. Certainly HAMMERFALL falls into this category.<br />Marak is mad, haunted by voices. When the goddess of the planet learns that his madness is shared, she sends him, along with the other affected victims, in a search for the source of madness. What Marak finds is a threat to the planet itself, and everyone on it.<br />What works in this novel is Cherryh's worldbuilding--her descriptions of the brutal desert world that Marak calls home, the storms that sweep across the desert, and the vermin who threaten anything alive. In HAMMERFALL, it is definitely the journey, not the destination, that makes the reading a pleasure.<br />I enjoyed this novel very much.<br />(...)	2001-11-14
1771665:US	49115690	RF46IZ3592D9S	0312280521	189580758	O Gentle Death	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Yawn	None of the rich people who go to, teach at, or send their children to Faraday Trust (a boarding school) like Catriona Roberts very much. She's depressed and tries to commit suicide--how tiresome. When she's killed (halfway through the book), the police have got to find who killed her.  Fortunately they luck into the answer right before the gratuitous romance at the end.<br />This is not a good book. Janet Neel can write--although I prefer a little less elitist style, but her characters don't develop.<br />I did get a laugh, though, over Neel's description of the characters in this novel as middle class (remember, they're the ones sending their children to an expensive boarding school because they are so busy and important that they can't watch them themselves, even with the nannies they've got at home.<br />I didn't guess who did the deed--maybe it was Neel's strategy to give us such a lot of unpleasant characters that we wished they'd all go to jail. And were we supposed to be so contemptuous of poor Catriona? Lucky for me I didn't go to school with Neel.<br />Not Recommended.<br />(...)	2001-11-14
1772167:US	49115690	R1YTXMN4WOOSNP	072785710X	858672564	Golden Mile to Murder (A Chief Inspector Woodend Mystery)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Compelling mystery--1960s in northern England	Detective Chief Inspector Charlie Woodend is booted out of Scotland Yard and sent to the 'provinces' where he is immediately assigned the case of a murdered policeman. Determined not to give the outsider with the reputation for being difficult any advantages, Woodend's new boss saddles him with a female Detective Sergeant determined to interpret anything he says as a sexual advance, and a staff of detectives willing to subvert the hunt for justice in order to protect the reputation of the fallen cop.<br />Woodend, along with Blonde bombshell Detective Sergeant Monika Paniatowski, descend into the English tourist destination of Blackpool with its barkers, tame girlie shows, lame comic routines, and close-knit carney community and find themselves cut off from effective work. If Woodend doesn't find a way to overcome Paniatowski's predjudices against all superiors, and to get effective work from the resentful local detectives, he'll fail.<br />Author Sally Spencer does a powerful job describing 1960s England, from its smokers, its transition from the war years and the coal/textiles-based industrial economy to a modern service economy, and the provincialism that remained in the north of England. At the same time, she has created two fully dimensioned characters in Paniatowski and Woodend. It's a joy to watch them step through initial distrust to achieve something akin to a partnership.<br />I could have done with a few fewer descriptions of Woodend's cigarette of choice (Capstan Full Strength), and found the first chapter a little distracting but once I got into this story, I couldn't put it down.<br />Highly Recommended	2001-11-14
1774167:US	49115690	R18NGD9U9TDRUH	0312869061	120734205	Swell Foop (Xanth Novels)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not just puns--some adventure and games too	Cynthia Centaur has a simple request for Good Magician Humphrey--but the quest he sends her on is anything but simple. She must find the Swell Foop to rescue the Demon Earth. Before she can even find the Foop, she must first find the six rings of Xanth--rings so powerful that they are hidden to prevent abuse. Even finding the Foop only gives Cynthia a chance. Should she fail, Xanth, the solar system, and possibly the entire universe are at risk.<br />Cynthia gathers a party of adventurers including the Syn, the bird that will eventually know everything, Zombies, and even a girl from Mundania (Earth as we know it), each of whom must find and control one of the rings.<br />To the puns and adolescent sexuality that make Xanth run, author Piers Anthony adds some of the games more common in some of his other series (e.g., the Apprentice Adept series), giving SWELL FOOP a bit more complexity and plot than some of the other Xanth series.<br />In each Xanth novel, Anthony combines a huge number of truly bad puns (is there such a thing as a good pun?) with an adventure. Some of these novels (e.g., A SPELL FOR CHAMELEON and CASTLE ROAGNA) are truly wonderful while others are less so. SWELL FOOP is above average in this hugely popular series.<br />If you enjoy the Xanth novels, you'll find SWELL FOOP a fine addition to the series. If you aren't familiar with this series, you may start with this novel, but I recommend starting with the first book in the series (A SPELL FOR CHAMELEON).	2001-11-12
1778375:US	49115690	R35177O8Y21ZNI	0821771868	508345073	A Christmas Promise (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Is she too stubborn for her own good--very fine.	Lady Juliana Linford has lost her husband, but she swears she won't return to her father's control, nor to the man her father had intended to be her husband. Admittedly, her own choice of a husband might not have been much of a success, but at least it was her choice.<br />Lord Ian Pierce has loved Juliana since they were children together. When he learns of her husband's death, he travels to India to meet her and bring her home to England. Along the way on the months-long journey, he intends to win her love and her hand in marriage. If he has to tell a few lies to get there, it's a price he's willing to pay.<br />When Juliana agrees not to reject Ian's offer until Christmas, he believes he has time to act. Yet everything he does results in her becoming more angry with him. Can't she see that he really does know what is best for her? Certainly the choices she has made for herself have been complete disasters. Certainly she can't deny the sexual attraction that sizzles beneath even their slightest touch.<br />Author Shelley Bradley writes compellingly of early Victorian England (the 1850s) where manners and elegance remain important, yet where women can now dream of independence and of making their own decision. Ian is an interesting character because he really does seem to know what is best for Juliana, yet who can't avoid angering her even when he does what she wants most. Although Juliana's manipulative father is on stage for only a small number of pages, he is a finely drawn figure that one can almost imagine getting to know better.	2001-11-09
1780937:US	49115690	R2IR2D7AVGDS0R	0373259549	878900990	One Hot Texan (Temptation, 854)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Jane Sullivan turns up the heat--another winner	Cole McCallum needs a wife--by tomorrow. If he can get married and stay married for six months, he'll inherit his grandmother's ranch and make enough money to get his development business back off the ground. Although Ginny White isn't the type of woman he's usually attracted to, she needs money and he's short on time. A six month business proposition looks like a win-win.<br />Ginny White has never kissed a man. Haunted by her late mother's condemnation of anything male or fun, Ginny is stepping out for the first time, actually visiting a bar for the first time when she sees Cole. She remembers him from high school but it takes three beers (her first ever) before she can summon the courage to talk to him. His business proposition solves a lot of problems for her and it isn't like she has any boyfriends to be disappointed in her.<br />The tacky Las Vegas wedding is a shock to Ginny. Even more of a shock is Cole's expectation that they have sex. Ginny might want to banish her mother's haunting voice, but that doesn't mean she didn't learn anything. She has too much respect for herself treat sex as a pure bodily function. To Cole's surprise, Ginny's refusal makes him see her in a new light. He wants her in a way he's never felt with another woman. It's going to be a rough six months.<br />Although both Cole and Ginny soon develop feelings for one another, each must deal with their own issues. Ginny must put her mother's voice and her self-effacing shyness behind her. Cole must learn to trust, to give up his fear of abandonment. Yet how can either meet their needs when each knows their marriage is a six-month affair?<br />Jane Sullivan switches from the the pure humor of her Harlequin Duets titles and the more sophisticated humor of I GOT YOU BABE (written as Jane Graves) to a more traditional Harlequin plot line (based on the 'Terms of the Will' device). Sullivan cranks up the sexual tension but retains the high-quality writing and traces of the whimsical humor that characterizes her works. <br />ONE HOT TEXAN is a joy to read.	2001-11-07
1783387:US	49115690	RNQD1JA9Y029H	0312873875	243124173	Mistress of the Catacombs (Lord of the Isles, Book 4)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The spiders are taking over the world--oh my	David Drake spins a good story and MISTRESS OF THE CATACOMBS is an enjoyable and action-filled read. Garric is trying to rebuild an empire shattered a thousand years earlier, but things keep getting in the way--like rebel leaders who think that no central government would be just fine and some alien spider creatures who want to be loosed on a world just full of delicious humans.<br />As is common in large fantasy novels, Drake uses the episodic technique of having multiple characters working on different but related adventures. Garic, torn out of his body and cast a thousand years ahead of his own present labors under the knowledge that in history, his reign was a failure (although he never seemed bothered by this bit of information).<br />I know it is hard to have a lot of character development in a series like this, but I would have liked to see a little more. Although he didn't change much, I found Cashel an especially enjoyable and human participant.<br />This isn't the book that will change your life but it is an enjoyable read.<br />BooksForABuck.	2001-11-05
1785779:US	49115690	R2DQP041743MG9	0385335717	50444399	The Thief-Taker: Memoirs of a Bow Street Runner	Books	5	32	38	N	N	Modern Police at their very beginning	Napoleon is loose on France and Belgium, George III is insane and his son rules as regent, and modern policing is being born. In London, the Bay Street Runners hunt down criminals--and are paid by the catch. It's a perfect setup for corruption. In a London where wealth and squallor live side-by-side, the police are held in contempt by everyone.<br />Henry Morton is a Bay Street Runner. When his ladyfriend calls on him to inspect a young man who arrives dead at a party, he suspects murder. A local doctor assures everyone that the young man simply drank too much, killing himself. When Morton learns that some of his fellow officers broke up an arranged duel that morning, he begins to suspect that the corruption in Bay Street goes beyond simply taking a few pounds to look the other way.<br />Author T. F. Banks writes an exciting tale of adventure and humanity. Morton is a well developed character and Banks's characterization of the young prostitute Lucy is charming. Although in retrospect a few of the plot twists were a little stretched, at the time I was reading, I didn't notice--I was too caught up in what was going to happen next.<br />A very enjoyable book.<br />I appreciate your 'helpful' vote.	2001-11-03
1785901:US	49115690	R1TM06DVO4PBS7	031220891X	665352242	The Great Game: A Professor Moriarty Novel (Professor Moriarty Novels)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Witty and Delightful--Holmes and Moriarty	At the end of the 19th century, Europe teeters toward war. Anarchists and assassins have taken aim at the crowned heads and Sherlock Holmes, at least, sees a connecting thread. Someone, for some reason, is conspiring to overthrow the existing order.<br />England lacks a professional spy organization--that role being served by aristocratic young men playing 'the great game.' When one of these amateur spies is accused of murder, his father calls on Professor Moriarty to help.<br />Despite Holmes's profound mistrust of Moriarty, the two can find common cause against the enemies of peace in Europe. Their enemies plan to strike soon, but can either uncover the conspiracy before it is too late?<br />Author Michael Kurland has created a delightful novel. Holmes fans might initially resist seeing Sherlock as improperly fixated on Moriarty, but Kurland's writing draws the reader in. Moriarty himself, as well as his friends Benjamin and Cecily Barnett are well crafted and interesting. Kurland throws both from one adventure to the next letting the reader chase after.<br />Sherlock Holmes takeoffs are plentiful these days, but THE GREAT GAME is a huge step ahead of the mob.<br />Highly Recommended<br />BooksForABuck.<br />I appreciate your 'helpful' vote.	2001-11-03
1787968:US	49115690	R3JNK0SN0XMMG7	0451458478	975209012	Pride of Kings	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fine fantasy/history hybrid	Britain needs a king and Richard the Lion Hearted wants nothing but his crusade. When Britain selects John in his place, trouble follows quickly--but can Britain's wild magic save itself. Phillip of France is threatening and Germany has captured Richard.<br />Tarr does a wonderful job re-introducing us to some of the most important historical figures of medieval England. Richard, who was the last hope for the crusades, John, who signed the Magna Carta creating the basis for Britain's modern government, and Eleanor of Aquitaine, who brought half of France as her bridal gift when she married Henry II of England (and launched both kingdoms into a war that would last over a hundred years).<br />Interesting, but less impressive was Tarr's job describing the magic that binds men to their land and the land to its kings. I would have liked to see more dimensionality in these magical characters.<br />Overall, I recommend this book highly.<br />BooksForABuck	2001-11-01
1790493:US	49115690	R3JS2FJE93DHD0	0312878281	897306119	Angelmass	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting story--interesting speculation	...<br />Author Timothy Zahn writes an exciting novel. ANGELMASS is enjoyable both because of the adventure plot and also because of the interesting scientific speculation about the nature of the angels and what they say about the nature of man. I did find the lack of security on a world under attack to be a little off-putting. With the level of computers that must exist in a world that supports advanced space travel, could someone really walk into a job at a research institute with so little background preparation?<br />Grit your teeth and ignore this bit of reality. Then sit back and enjoy a fine story.<br />BooksForABuck	2001-10-30
1797552:US	49115690	R13R4R7TG8OITE	0312878826	37385722	The Rover	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Charming adventure	Librarians protect the world's knowledge, they don't go off on adventures. When Degewick Lamplighter (Wick) is kidnapped by pirates, all of his fantasy-reading becomes real life and it's a lot tougher for a small halfling than it is for the heros in the adventures he loves.<br />Wick bounces from one disaster to another. Kidnapped by pirates, stolen by goblins, turned into a slave, thief, and finally forced to confront one of the elemental forces of the world, Wick relies on his wits, an excellent memory for what he's read, and luck which he has in plenty.<br />Author Mel Odom takes a fairly standard post-modern world and gives it depth through the introduction of myth and history (much as J.R.R. Tolkien did with middle-earth--is this comparison too over the top?).<br />THE ROVER is a charming adventure. I liked Wick a lot, and enjoyed both the characters and the world-building that Odom created to make this novel special.<br />BooksForABuck.<br />I appreciate your 'helpful' vote.	2001-10-24
1798435:US	49115690	R1ESYKB25I9D6N	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stephanie is back--zanny as ever	When incompetent bounty-hunter Stephanie Plum sets out to bring in a seventy-something mobster, she thinks her biggest problem will be from her grandmother--who has been dating him. No such luck. Eddie DeCooch vanishes into New Jersey's 'burg' and Stephanie is left empty-handed. Except that there's something more serious going on and before she knows it, her druggie friends have vanished too.<br />If you haven't discovered Stephanie Plum, you're in for a treat. Expect wild, crazy, and very funny and author Janet Evanovich delivers. To some extent, Evanovich has toned down SEVEN UP compared to the last few Plum novels. But that's only a relative term--there's plenty of zanny left.  In fact, I found this an even more enjoyable blend than the last few.<br />If you don't follow all of the mystery, don't worry about it. What makes a Stephanie Plum novel work is Stephanie's relationships with her parents, her wild grandmother, the two men in her life, and the wacky neighbors and co-workers who make up her life.<br />Will Stephanie finally settle down with Joe, or will she go overboard and sleep with Ranger? Will her sister find happiness outside of her once-perfect marriage by becoming a bounty hunter or a lesbian? Will her grandmother finally give Stephanie's father a heart attack?<br />I laughed out loud and devoured the novel (like Bob the dog devours chinese food) in a single sitting.<br />BooksForABuck.<br />I appreciate your 'helpful' vote.	2001-10-24
1799757:US	49115690	R2CVGAQ2TGHA5D	0345397665	106893307	Antrax (Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 2)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A treat--Brooks ups the emotional intensity	You can always count on Terry Brooks for adventure. Having dispensed with the relatively slow start of ILSE WITCH, ANTRAX throws its characters directly into action. Walker and his party are either captured by a vast artificial intelligence, by the witch herself, or are being hunted down. Yet somehow, they must survive and most importantly grow as characters. And this is where Brooks improves dramatically over ILSE WITCH.<br />ANTRAX puts much less attention on the powerful and interesting but not especially compelling Walker and much more on the other members of his party--boys like Bek and Quentin, on Rue Meridian and on the failed elf-prince Ahren Elessedil. These characters are much less set in their ways and much more capable of growing over the course of the novel--and grow they do.<br />With an excellent mix of compelling action and intriguing character, Terry Brooks delivers a superior novel.<br />If you loved ILSE WITCH, you're into a treat. If you (like me) found the first volume to be only satisfactory, then you'll be even happier to see that Brooks has hit his stride again.	2001-10-23
1801529:US	49115690	R1SZLGTWPA6Z2H	0312269935	482009736	Saintly Murders: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Kathryn Swinbrooke	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Mystery in the War of the Roses	The War of the Roses appears over with Edward IV firmly on the crown and only Henry Tudor, in exile in France, left to represent the Lancaster hopes. Yet the King of France continues to nibble away at England's strength. Rumor has it that he has a traitor high in the English royal party--but whom.<br />When a Canterbury monk and the Queen Mother's confessor dies and is found with the stigmata on his body, Kathryn Swinbrooke is asked to serve as Devil's Advocate in his proposed canonization. Was his death a miracle, or could it be something worse?<br />Certainly there are evil things abroad. Rats have invaded Canterbury and human rats swarm as well. A spy returned from France has learned the name of the traitor but is killed before he can divulge the truth. Kathryn is forced to deal with several intertwined mysteries--and finds herself in grave personal risk.<br />C. L. Grace writes a wonderfully involving novel set in the fascinating War of the Roses period of English history. Kathryn is an interesting and well developed character--increasing the reader's buy-in to the risk and danger that she finds herself in.<br />Both the medical technology and the accounts of monestary living add to the readers' interest.<br />A fine and compelling read.<br />BooksForABuck.	2001-10-21
1802216:US	49115690	R2BV0SUPQA0BEK	0380979012	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Wonderful Lois McMaster Bujold Fantasy	I was a little reluctant to read anything by Lois McMaster Bujold that didn't have Miles Vorkosigan in it (if you haven't read this series, you must), but decided to give her a chance. Wow.<br />Ex-soldier Cazaril seeks nothing but the lowest possible job to live out the rest of his prematurely aged life. Instead, he becomes tutor and secretary to a young princess. The royal family has been cursed and is slowly failing as the legal ruler abdicates all of his responsibilities to a corrupt Chancellor. Somehow, Cazaril must keep his charge alive and find a way to break the ancient curse.<br />The best thing about any Bujold novel is the characters and she certainly doesn't disapoint here. Cazaril, in particular, is finely drawn and emotionally compelling. In THE CURSE OF CHALION, Bujold adds powerful world-building. I found the religion, legends, and history of her fantasy world completely compelling.<br />Unlike a slash and march adventure, THE CURSE is remarkable for its intelligence. Cazaril might not be at his physical peak, but he uses is intelligence and a ton of faith to change his world.<br />Another Bujold winner--fabulous.<br />BooksForABuck	2001-10-21
1803457:US	49115690	R1RMA7PIB459VF	0393042146	420471137	Pay Days: A Harpur & Iles Mystery	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Disturbing, funny, and wonderful	If you haven't discovered Harpur and Iles, you owe yourself a treat.<br />ACC Iles's concept of a controlled city where drugs are handled locally and violence is kept off the streets is threatened by his boss, Mark Lane's desire for a crusade against crime, by one of his officer's apparent double-dealing (the Pay Days of the title), and by an outbreak of murder within the untrusting mobs that control the drug business.  As usual, Detective Chief Superintendent Harpur is the only one who will face the moral dilemnas and try to achieve a solution.<br />Author Bill James does a wonderful job detailing the fine line between police and criminal--their similarities are disturbing. His deft touch for dialogue made me laugh and cringe at the same time. Panicking Ralph Ember, in particular, has become something of a friend as well as a monumental villain.<br />Harpur and Iles is a great series and this is a great example.<br />BooksForABuck.<br />I appreciate your helpful vote.	2001-10-19
1806081:US	49115690	R2UZ04LIJ6RHW7	0765300842	710676236	The Star Fraction (Fall Revolution)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Wonderful World Building	In the near future, the U.S./U.N. sits in space, ready to rain down destruction on anyone who they see as a threat while Europe has balkanized to the point where England has become dozens of countries, at war with one another and with the rest of the world. The former socialist government still claims that it is the legal authority, but its major ally is a computer artificial intelligence that has been manipulating the world for decades.<br />Moh Kohn, follower of Trotsky and son of the programmer who created what became an artificial intelligence, works as a communist security guard, protecting property from the ecological wacks and other 'barbarians.' When he steps over the mercenary line, he is forced to run with a beautiful scientist and joins up with Jordan, a disaffected Christian programmer who wants to preach the truth and make a mint manipulating the market.<br />Author Ken MacLeod's vision of future communism looks a lot like Robert Heinlein's capitalism. He brings a definite European slant (Americans aren't used to being the badguys in science fiction), but his world is compelling.<br />THE STAR FRACTION is MacLeod's first novel. I look forward to his future efforts where, the world fully created, he'll be able to add the same level depth to the human characters as he does to his world.	2001-10-17
1809669:US	49115690	R21UDDSCLY8M6A	0399147934	39092469	Closing Time	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Avoiding life in New York	Terry Orr has tried to abandon his life ever since his wife and son were killed at a subway stop. He has stopped writing (his earlier career) and become a private investigator who doesn't charge for his services. His daughter, Bella, and friends try to get him to resume his life, but he simply will not do so.<br />Orr comes across a murdered taxi driver and signs himself up to find the killer. At the same time, he attends an art show where a bomb goes off--and he investigates this as well. The two murders are unconnected except in tone. Both involve father/son relationships that went horribly wrong. Orr does what he can to correct these families in ways that he could not correct his own.<br />Author Jim Fusilli's writing is dense but Orr's daughter, Bella, shines through. At 12 years old, Bella has been forced to come to terms with life because no one can protect her from what happened. Certainly her father's abandonment of life makes her the parent figure in their relationship although she is definitely a child.	2001-10-16
1810270:US	49115690	R122UF5JXYCWOY	1575666774	657339293	Once Bitten: A Melanie Travis Mystery (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The dogs are back---so Melanie, wake up	Melanie Travis tries to deal with her disappearing fiance when her future sister-in-law's wedding planner, Sara, also disappears and Melanie's ex-husband suddenly reappears and wants to play in Melanie's life. Melanie settles for sleuthing to find the missing Sara--only to discover that plenty of people want her to stay missing. They just might get their wish when Sara's house burns down and a woman's body is found inside.<br />What's best about this novel is the dogs. Melanie shows her standard poodle Faith and is working on 'finishing' her, i.e., achieving champion rank. When Melanie goes to the dogs, ONCE BITTEN goes well indeed. When Melanie fixates on men, I was tempted to roll my eyes--I mean, get on with it.<br />The mystery plays a third fiddle to Melanie's dog problems and her men problems. Fortunately, she doesn't have to do much to solve it.<br />Author Laurien Berenson's light tone, her wonderful descriptions of the dog shows and of dog people, and of the relationship between Melanie, her son, her aunt, her dogs, and her future sister-in-law make ONCE BITTEN a pleasure to read despite its flaws.	2001-10-15
1813251:US	49115690	RVHEK4TMMJFQK	0373168934	915504307	Baby By The Book (American Baby)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful and heart-warming	It's easy to see why Kara Lennox has quickly become one of the hottest authors in the Harlequin American stable. BABY BY THE BOOK can't help making you smile and feel good.<br />Abandoned by her boyfriend, pregnant Susan Kilgore needs to get back on her feet and rebuild her carpentry business. She's not going to let a little thing like an almost due baby stop her from taking the job Dr. Rand Barclay offers her remodeling his office--even if Rand does have a way of getting her all excited.<br />Rand needs to finish his book and he's way late. What he doesn't need is the distraction of a pregnant woman. Yet his protective instincts don't let him just walk away from a woman in trouble. Yet, can Susan ever really be his, or is her heart still owned by the ex-boyfriend who walked away--before he even knew he'd be a father.<br />Author Lennox has definitely turned up the emotional intensity with this one. It's sexy, funny, and definitely a heartwarming feel-good read.<br />I loved it.	2001-10-11
1813460:US	49115690	R3CYH0FN46QHNJ	0743204832	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Battle against evil in beautiful Montana	Billy Bob Holland has his own troubles. He's torn up over accidentally killing his Texas Ranger partner and talks to his partner's ghost. When his friend Doc Voss asks him to come to Montana to help out, though, Billy Bob can't say no.<br />Voss has taken unpopular stands against mining the mountains and has earned himself some enemies--enemies dangerous enough to rape his young daughter. When Voss is accused of murdering the lead suspect in the rape case, Billy Bob (a lawyer) takes on the case. Yet he knows that Voss could have killed--he, like Billy Bob, is definitely morally complex.<br />Not morally complex at all are the band of sociopathic suspects that Billy Bob faces. These include white supremicists, bikers, and old-fashioned Mafia types as well as an emotionally disturbed woman Billy Bob finds himself attracted to.<br />In BITTERROOT, the battle is not between good and evil so much as between black and gray. Only those who adopt something of the evil they face can beat it, yet who do they become in the battle.<br />Author James Lee Burke grabs you and drags you through the mud in this powerful novel. I didn't like everything I read, but I couldn't put it down. At the end, I felt like I'd been taken through a beating myself.<br />BooksForABuck	2001-10-11
1814432:US	49115690	R2BGYETAZUO11N	0399147128	900032230	The Villa	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It's Nora Roberts--so of course it's good	You can't go wrong if you pick a Nora Roberts novel. The woman is just so talented, she seems able to make a compelling read out of just about anything. Better yet, every Nora Roberts book is different--you never feel like you're reading the same thing over and over again.<br />Three generations of strong women have built the Giambelli Winery into one of the most powerful in the world. Now, this heritage is threatened by forces determined to destroy everything they have worked for--forces that strike from the competition, from within the company, and even from within the family. Sophia, the youngest woman, is now forced to leave her zone of comfort (in marketing and P.R.) to learn production from Tyler MacMillan, a man who thinks of all suits as worthless. Romantic sparks fly in this forced togetherness.<br />Roberts' descriptions of wine and the wine-making process were interesting in themselves, and also worked as subtle symbols of the developing relationship between Tyler and Sophia, as well as the everpresent dangers to the family and this relationship. Very interesting.<br />Because Sophia and Tyler are unaware of the forces set to destroy them through much of the book, their activities lack the focus that would really let us get into them. Sophia's goal of preserving the status quo is inherently more difficult to get behind than would ha more active goal. For this reason, THE VILLA is somewhat less compelling than other Roberts novels.<br />Still, any book by Nora Roberts is worth reading. You won't regret reading this one.	2001-10-10
1815770:US	49115690	R1HV27CM6UWMES	0312853777	141074978	Dervish Is Digital	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting future view, confusing plot	Police Lieutenant Dore Konstantin is a cyber-cop. Her job, to track artificial reality and track down the criminals who reside there. The problems--artificial reality is a tricky place, nothing is really illegal there, and some very nasty people seem to live there.<br />One of the nastiest just might be Dervish. According to his ex-girlfriend, Dervish has switched places with an artificial intelligence, actually becoming digital. Certainly his powers over cyberspace seem far stronger than any human should be able to afford.<br />Konstantin finds herself out of her league and seeks help, but in cyberspace, who can you trust.<br />Author Pat Cadigan provides an interesting forecast of how both the web and criminal society may merge as well as pinpointing some of the problems our police will have to face. Unfortunately, Konstantin is just a little too helpless and a little too confused. Even the final resolution rings a little hollow--what, exactly, did Konstantin do to bring about this resolution?<br />DERVISH IS DIGITAL makes for interesting reading, but it just drips with promises that aren't quite explored.	2001-10-09
1820601:US	49115690	R3V70PJREJE4TJ	0446528323	753255172	1: The Ill-Made Mute: The Bitterbynde Book I (Bitterbynde, Bk 1)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Personal problems in an age where heroism is called for	Mute, disfigured, and without a memory, Imrhien dreams of escape from her job as a drudge in a huge castle on a fantasy world. When she does escape, things go from bad to worse as she is cast into adventure seeking wealth and recovery of her face, voice, and memory.<br />Author Cecilia Dart-Thornton has created a promising world where our childhood fairy tales are (often horribly) real and the unseelie armies gather to destroy humankind. Yet, in such a world, can we really care about whether one person recovers her face?<br />I have high hopes that the world-building that is so capably performed in THE ILL-MAEE MUTE can be matched by plot-building and character-building in future volumes in this series.	2001-10-03
1824756:US	49115690	R34FNY10G4JAQA	0743200950	652735951	Hard Road: A Cat Marsala Mystery (Cat Marsala Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Oz in Chicago--but watch out for the Tin Woodsman	Cat Marsala thinks she's just entertaining her young nephew with a visit to the Chicago Oz festival but before the night is through, she witnesses two murders, gets herself and her nephew shot at, and escapes through the tunnels that run underneath Chicago.<br />When her evidence gets the police convinced that her brother is the killer, Cat decides to investigate herself. Yet if it isn't her brother, who could it be. She saw the victim run toward her brother with no evidence of blood anywhere.<br />The strength of Hard Road is in its descriptions of Chicago and its little peeks into the Oz legend (I also enjoyed the Oz essay at the end although it had nothing to do with the mystery). Its weaknesses are in the lack of character development and fairly linear plot.<br />HARD ROAD is well written--I certainly kept turning the pages and enjoyed the book.	2001-09-29
1825095:US	49115690	R3GONVP2401MS8	0312265735	385074283	Death of the Last Villista: A Texana Jones Mystery (Texana Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another winner--wide open West Texas country	Decades ago, moviemakers came to the west Texas town where Texana Jones lives with her vet-husband--and one of them was killed. Now, some of the stars are returning to film a documentary and memories of that long-ago murder are resurfacing.<br />Texana can ignore a threatening note, but when a mobile home is destroyed and several people injured, she has to investigate. She learns more than she wanted to know about the past--her mother's relationship with the victim, and an excellent motive for her father to have been the killer.<br />Author Allana Martin does a wonderful job describing the wild west Texas country, but also the close-knit community that it inspires. Some of the best scenes in this novel come where Texana is simply experiencing her every-day life--which is much of a mystery to those of us who live in urban areas.<br />Another fine effort in this enjoyable series.	2001-09-29
1829120:US	49115690	R3K148K5NZJ2AT	0312265603	411185313	Biggie and the Quincy Ghost	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fun and murder in East Texas	J.R. Weatherford and his grandmother Biggie visit Quincy, Texas to learn what it would take to put together a historical society. Quincy (based on Jefferson, Texas) is obsessed with its history including a colorful ghost. Yet the dead woman J.R. discovers in the fountain outside his hotel room is no ghost. With the Sheriff sick, Biggie is called in to investigate.<br />BIGGIE AND THE QUINCY GHOST is fun. J.R. is the point of view character and author Nancy Bell does a fine job remaining true both to the 12-year-old character telling the story, and to the East Texas setting. Anyone who knows Texans will get a smile (or belly-laugh) from some of the expressions that J.R. uses.<br />Bell provides the reader with a rich serving of Texas history, Texasisms, and a purely enjoyable mystery.<br />Although some of the materials may be inappropriate for children, BIGGIE AND THE QUINCY GHOST is easy to read and a lot of fun.	2001-09-25
1829374:US	49115690	R1YVKW6NTXIJRV	0345433300	260503270	The Manhattan Hunt Club	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Wonderful concept--mixed execution	The right-thinking leaders of New York have devised a way to keep their city clean. They form the Manhattan Hunt Club to hunt down and kill criminals who have somehow escaped full justice from the court system. Their killing ground--the tunnels beneath Manhattan. Their beaters--the homeless who make these tunnels their homes.<br />It's a wonderful concept. The thought of those tunnels running everywhere underneath the city is both powerful and compelling. How can you not want to read this book. Unfortunately, despite his considerable skills as a writer, author John Saul doesn't live up to the promise.<br />Both villains and the hero (falsely convicted Jeff Converse) are one dimensional. What Jeff wants from his life other than to get out of the tunnels alive is simply unclear. We need a protagonist who strives for more than simply another day of life. Jeff's sidekick in the sewers is even more of a caricature--a man who refuses to admit his gay impulses and kills his lovers (and those he imagines to be his lovers).<br />To the shallow characters, Saul adds the mistake of relying excessively on coincidence to drive his story forward. What are the odds that Jeff's father would run into the one homeless girl in all of New York who happened to spend the night with Jeff the previous night?<br />Although THE MANHATTAN HUNT CLUB does disappoint in its delivery, the concept is so compelling that I couldn't help myself. I had to keep reading.<br />This is a nearly wonderful book.	2001-09-25
1835808:US	49115690	R1MBG28SOJ5HVS	0312874073	198804354	Probability Sun (Probability Trilogy)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Interesting physics--but need more character development	The human race is losing a war against the 'Fallen' a mysterious race who kills rather than communicating. Now the Fallen have discovered a shield that protects them from anything the humans can throw at them. If they don't do something, the human race is doomed.<br />In PROBABILITY SUN, a small group of scientists and soldiers travel to a fascinating world of 'shared reality' to uncover an artifact that just might have something to do with the interstellar travel that humans have discovered but don't understand, and just might have something to do with the Fallen shield.<br />The same mission, for no particular reason, also carries the only Fallen ever captured alive.<br />I loved author Nancy Kress's depiction of 'The World' and the shared reality system that makes it work. The physics that run through the 'probability' aspect of her work are also interesting.<br />I found the military situation that two such critical missions (saving the human race and communicating with the only captured member of the attacking species) would be conducted by such a small group of scientists (only one of which had any communication with the Fallen). An even bigger problem was with the characters. Tom Capelo is flat, his emotions ranging from rage to a sort of maudlin love for his children. Colonel Kaufman, more or less the protagonist, doesn't really seem to arc much. He does what he has to, but the reader never sees the change or what it means to him.<br />PROBABILITY SUN is interesting and well written, but it won't stick with you the way Kress intended, nor the way it almost achieved.	2001-09-19
1837153:US	49115690	R8I4ITA7T92XN	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	fast-moving double-hostage	Ex-hostage negotiator Jeff Talley has put that part of his life, and most of his life, behind him. Now he's a suburban cop who can't deal with his failures or his family. When a convenience store robbery goes terribly wrong, Talley finds himself forced to deal with his most pressing fears.<br />The hostage situation is bad enough, but the convenience store robbers have bitten off more than they know. The man they hold hostage is a Mafia accountant. Now the Mafia is coming after them to ensure that their secrets stay secret and Talley is in the way. What Talley learns is that there are two families held hostage--and one of them is his own.<br />Robert Crais writes a fast-paced action thriller. Talley's character arc may be a little Hollywood, but it still makes for exciting action and will definitely involve the reader.	2001-09-17
1838146:US	49115690	R2YQXTH7ZFA0HF	0312859279	353210303	Issola (The Vlad Taltos Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great combination of humor and action	Vlad Taltos can't see why this is his problem. If two of the most powerful magicians in the world get kidnapped and they can't find their way out of the problem, what could he possibly do? The powers that be don't agree, however, and Vlad, along with the beautiful Lady Teldra (protocol expert) are off to find who can mess with people even the gods fear.<br />Who is messing is the Jenoine, a strange group of entities that may be more powerful than the gods themselves (at least the Jenoine seem to think so), but who act in ways that can't always be explained or understood. Vlad is soon up to his eyeballs in dealing with the Jenoine, trying to decide whether to take their assignment in assassinating his patron god (he is an assassin, after all), and generally saving the universe.<br />What makes ISSOLA superior to the usual save the world from evil is Vlad. His tongue-in-cheek observations of the world (helped by a running dialogue with his pet familiar--great device) show useful insights into his world, our world, and are a lot of fun as well.<br />The Jenoine are an interesting group of characters who seem to live in a Platonic world (where each thing is the one ideal thing of that type). Their actions are not entirely explicable by human reasonings, yet they seem to have their own reasons.<br />ISSOLA is a truly enjoyable read.	2001-09-17
1841619:US	49115690	R16LFCOPOJF7JD	0743202694	953997941	Money, Money, Money: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Completely enjoyable	Ed McBain has created a completely enjoyable novel. Cass Ridley has found the secret to wealth--a few quick flights to Mexico, deliveries, and then off to fur coats and a life of leisure. Except the money she delivered might not be what it appears to be.<br />87th Precinct Detectives Steve Carella and Fat Ollie Weeks are stuck tracking down multiple murders that seem tied together by a trail of counterfeit bills. Unfortunately, there seems to be more going on here than a local drug operation. The U.S. Secret Service is stonewalling its involvement and some of the suspects hint that they are protected by forces more powerful than the 87th can deal with. Carella pushes on (and Fat Ollie pushes after).<br />McBain is a wonderful writer and I found myself pulled into this story so deeply that I had a hard time doing anything else. Unfortunately, the plot has several major holes. The middle-eastern terrorists don't even register with the police until the very end, coincidence plays too critical a role in the novel's resolution, and the ending comes so abruptly that it felt like McBain had run out of pages before he ran out of story.<br />MONEY, MONEY, MONEY isn't perfect, but it's definitely an enjoyable read.	2001-09-12
1842467:US	49115690	R3PJWWRE5NDPSJ	0671318268	93603767	March to the Sea	Books	3	11	12	N	N	All action--what happened to our characters?	I loved MARCH UPCOUNTRY because it combined action with a coming of age story. Prince Roger grows from spoiled brat to a complex character with compassion, strength, and understanding of others. MARCH TO THE SEA takes the story forward but, Prince Roger is now all grown up and there isn't anything to take the place from the human perspective.<br />Authors Weber and Ringo do a fine job writing battle scenes. In fact, the frequent joke within the novel--one city, one battle--seems to be the basic plot device in this book.<br />Roger and the small remnant of human bodyguard marines are trying to get across an entire planet with a fast-ticking clock as their vitamin supplements start to get low. To survive, though, they need to get natives to help them build the ships they need to cross an ocean and the natives that have the technology skills to help them are about to be buried under an angry flood of barbarians. Roger and company set out to save civilization and themselves as well.<br />The fighting is bloody as Roger and company commit genocide to ensure that the barbarians won't be back. Although we get occasional point-of-view scenes in the barbarian's heads, we never get the idea that they are anything but dumb cannon-fodder which is just as well because that's what they are.<br />MARCH TO THE SEA keeps you reading, but it isn't nearly the tour de force that MARCH UPCOUNTRY was.  Come on, guys, let's have some characters with our battles.	2001-09-11
1847257:US	49115690	R7A8XP6CBHRYB	0804119686	563168274	I Got You, Babe	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Wonderful and funny	Renee Esterhaus didn't rob that convenience store, but all the evidence says she did--and she doesn't plan to stay around long enough to rot in jail. When she barely escapes from a bounty hunter, Renee meets up with vacationing cop John DeMarco and promises him a night he'll never forget if he will take her home. Naturally, she has to lie to him, and naturally one lie leads to another.<br />Renee and John zig and zag toward a relationship, fighting the sexual attraction that draws them together and the distrust that keeps them apart. He lives for his job and harboring a fugitive is hardly likely to lead to quick promotion. Renee knows too much about prison to take a chance on the justice system, especially when the evidence all points directly at her.<br />Author Jane Graves (who writes as Jane Sullivan for Harlequin), turns up the fun in this witty and wacky romantic comedy. Building beyond the initial situational comedy (which sadly is too often the entire humor in romantic comedy), Graves introduces amusing characters (I especially liked DeMarco's all-cop family and the bald and battered bounty hunter Leandro), clever dialogue, and wacky handcuff moments of various types.<br />I GOT YOU, BABE combines laugh-out-loud humor with adventure as DeMarco and Renee try to discover the truth behind the crime. This is Graves's first longer novel and it is a brilliant beginning. Well done.	2001-09-07
1849910:US	49115690	R1679F3ZFBPBBF	067131985X	921098133	March Upcountry (March Upcountry (Hardcover))	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Weber is back	For me, Weber seems to have gotten a little flat and predictable in the Honor series and Ringo didn't ring my chimes at all in his HYMN BEFORE BATTLE, so I held off on reading this despite the intriguing back cover copy. Well, I'm sold.<br />Prince Roger is a fop, rebelling against his family and being as annoying as he can be to everyone around him. When his mother gets completely fed up and sends him off to show the flag somewhere very far away, his ship is damaged and he ends up on an enemy-occupied world, halfway across the planet from the only spaceport (which is, of course, occupied by the enemy). MARCH UPCOUNTRY tells of the beginning of Roger's march, accompanied by his marine-bodyguards, around the world.<br />It's exciting military action. The high technology equipment comes in handy against aliens and unfriendly predators, but even The Empire of Man hasn't overcome the problems of dirt getting into modern equipment and making it unreliable or worse. Better, from a story perspective, Roger tries to help but ends up doing the wrong thing or getting in trouble for doing the right thing.<br />Roger is an interesting character and his emotional and political development through this novel deepens the readers interest far more than does the pure body-count of the military scenes.<br />MARCH UPCOUNTRY grabbed me early and held onto me until I set it down, breathless, at one in the morning.  Weber and Ringo, well done.	2001-09-05
1852616:US	49115690	R3QH2OGODQN7J6	034543904X	508246365	The Shadows of God (The Age of Unreason, Book 4)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Exciting conclusion--powerful characters	Russia and England, dominated by angels working to destroy humanity, are on the verge of success. Only a small group of Americans, including European exiles, Indians, and colonists, now stand against them. In an alternate reality, Isaac Newton discovered not only science but also magic and the world must now face the consequences.<br />Led by Benjamin Franklin, the resistance gathers in Louisiana for their final confrontation. Franklin builds fabulous machines that might just be able to slow the angelic forces, but outnumbered as his men are, they have little chance for success.  Especially as he can't really trust even those who are supposedly on his side.<br />J. Gregory Keyes does an excellent job creating characters that the reader can believe in and identify with. From Franklin himself, torn between love for his wife and desire for other women; Red Shoes, the Indian shaman with a snake in his soul; to Addrienne de Mornay de Montchevreuil, who still loves the son she bore and who now threatens the universe.<br />The depth of these characters makes it easy for the reader to care about the novel, about the adventure, and about the danger that Franklin's small band of outnumbered soldiers and mages must face.<br />A fine novel.	2001-09-03
1854024:US	49115690	R1WI5CEC1PHL4X	1585742252	992574380	Ice Hunter: A Woods Cop Mystery	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Good plot, great character	Grady Service doesn't do well with people and he can't play political games. What he does is hunt down violators of fishing, hunting, dumping, and other regulations protecting the environment. His special love is the Mosquito Wilderness Tract, an unspoiled piece of land in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. When strange things start to happen in the Tract, Service launches into action.<br />The strange things include arson, and murder. While murder is normally reserved for the county police, Service won't back down. Something strange is happening in his wilderness and the murder is only a symptom.  But who would possibly have anything to gain? Service intends to find out.<br />What makes ICE HUNTER work is Service. Author Joseph Heywood has created a complex character with enough flaws to make him approachable, and enough weaknesses to make him endearing despite his pathological fear of women, commitment, dogs, and taking it easy.<br />What makes ICE HUNTER work is watching Service. While the plot is well constructed and interesting, it is simply the stage across wich Service acts. It will be interesting to see if Service can keep his edge in future novels as he overcomes his fear of both women and dogs.  I'll look forward to finding out.	2001-09-01
1855516:US	49115690	RSHNQUX3ARDKX	0312865597	704368084	The Storm of Heaven (Oath of Empire, Book 3)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Powerful series, exciting action	The leaders of Rome, both east and west, seem hopelessly sunk into grief and guilt. Meanwhile, a revived Persia and the desert armies of Mohammed win victory after victory over the dispirited Roman armies. Even Prince Maxim, who has tried to break the Oath of Empire that holds Rome together while preventing any progress, seems unwilling to do anything to prevent destruction.<br />In this third novel in the OATH OF EMPIRE SERIES, players with more minor roles in the earlier books come to the fore. The revived Julius Caesar and Alexander the Great have to act independently because Maxim refuses to give them direction. The wizard-boy Dwyrin has found incredible powers. Thyatis has lost her memory and must fight for survival on her own.<br />With two books under his belt, Harlan has mastered the impressionistic style. His plot still jumps from one action-center to the other across the Roman and Persian worlds, but these transitions are less jarring and the overall plot moves forward more smoothly than in the earlier novels.<br />I look forward to the next volume in this fascinating series set in a 7th century world where magic works and where the power of the Oath has kept Rome from falling.	2001-08-31
1860421:US	49115690	R1QJJY5BXG9RJB	158234132X	906848148	Sherlock Holmes: The Missing Years; The Adventures of the Great Detective in India and Tibet	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fine addition to Holmes legend	Surely something happened in the years when Sherlock Holmes travelled through India and Tibet. According to author Jamyang Norbu, what happened was a fabulous adventure that challenged Holmes to the full, gave him a new sidekick (an Indian spy out of Rudyard Kipling). Holmes comes to India fleeing Mortiarty's henchmen who seek revenge for their fallen master. Unfortunately, they arrive in India before him and his life is in constant danger. Holmes shows his traditional detective skills, solving an apparently impossible crime, but then develops a fascination for Tibet. Travelling to forbidden, mysterious, and beset Tibet, Holmes seeks to help the High Lama escape from the influence of Imperial China and a mysterious and arcane dark power. The battle becomes a bit more physical than usual in Holmes stories, but retains a true Holmes feel. I especially enjoyed Norbu's descriptions of British India, with both its positives and the incredible British arrogance both on full display. Norbu's political objective (the end to Chinese oppression in Tibet) is clear but does not overwhelm the novel. Whether Doyle would approve of this story is certainly open to question. Given that we know that Holmes travelled to Tibet and met with the High Lama, I think a more mystical approach to these years is certainly appropriate. Go ahead and enjoy this fine novel.	2001-08-27
1862847:US	49115690	RWCTCH70AF994	0312262655	714928958	Smoke-Filled Rooms	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fine novel, great character, exciting period	Smokey Dalton has fled Memphis with Jimmy, 10-year-old witness of the Martin Luther King assassination. The man Jimmy saw kill King was not the man the police arrested and Smokey knows that Jimmy's life is in danger. Unfortunately for both, Smokey chooses Chicago as his hiding place. The 1968 Democratic National Convenction in Chicago makes that city a dangerous place for a man on the run. If someone has spotted Smokey and Jimmy, they are in danger and Smokey knows he must get to the bottom of it. Yet what can he do against the forces of the FBI and Chicago police? Author Kris Nelscott does a fine job with Smokey's complex character, the feeling of a city careening toward its date with destiny, and the complex relationships between white and black. Smokey's ambivalent feelings toward Laura, an anglo woman whom he must ask for help, stand in microcosm for the entire world he lives in. Nelscott has written a novel that uses the big historical events (and conspiracy theories) of a critical period of U.S. history, but this story is intensely personal. Smokey and Jimmy are what matter, not some amorphous ideal. Perhaps this is why this novel works. Highly Recommended. BooksForABuck.com I appreciate your 'helpful' vote.	2001-08-25
1863058:US	49115690	R13HD0KEWRCCWQ	0312873840	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Powerful account of the near future	A mysterious Kuin is sending monuments to his great victories into his past--and really screws up Scott Warden's life. Are these messages of world conquest a fact that must be dealt with, or are they, in fact, intended to become a self-fulfilling prophecy? Interestingly, author Robert Charles Wilson makes Warden a relatively minor player in the attempt to thwart Kuin. For a while, he works as a computer programmer for a scientist (Sue) who has the closest handle on the math that would allow Kuin to send his messages into the past, yet he quits that job to be near his daughter. Instead, Wilson writes on a smaller and more personal scale. Warden is important and, because they are important to him, his daughter and second wife are important. Combining a fascinating near-future history with a highly sympathetic character makes for a compelling read. Highly recommended.	2001-08-25
1866869:US	49115690	R3LBO179K29RU9	0553801228	774262906	Summer Light	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Slow start, strong emotional resolution	May Taylor is flying her daughter Kylie home when she sees an Angel hanging over a handsome man. The angel is professional hockey player Martin Cartier's late daughter seeking to resolve the issues that her death left in Martin's life.<br />Kylie tells Martin to help them shortly before the plane makes an unscheduled emergency landing and Martin is instantly intrigued by both Kylie and especially by her attractive single mother, May.  After a brief courtship, both are firmly in love and the only issue seems to be whether May should apply her wedding planning business skills or whether they should elope (Martin just wants what makes May happy).<br />For me, this first half of the novel was pleasant but unremarkable. We didn't see what made these two people uniquely right for one another. Martin's extreme reactions to questions about his past were consistent with author Luanne Rice's descriptions of his upbringing, but were nevertheless unpleasant and unheroic as were his frequent decisions to desert May and Kylie.<br />The second half of the novel, and especially the conclusion, were much more emotionally satisfying. Rice handled the psychic elements with a delicate touch--enough to add to the plot yet little enough that the characters themselves had to resolve their issues.<br />If you decide to read this book, and on net, I enjoyed it, make sure you keep reading through the relatively bland beginning. The emotional payoff is at the end.	2001-08-22
1867944:US	49115690	R2IPDHYNJP7BT0	038097729X	432838089	Paradise Lost (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 9)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	J.A. Jance cranks up the intensity	When her daughter and a fellow scout find a corpse, and then the fellow scout is killed, Sheriff Joanna Brady springs into action. She means to protect her daughter no matter what and no sacrifice, even promises to her new husband, will get in the way. Brady goes after the killer(s) with dogged determination and all of the scientific help modern criminal labs can bring to the table.<br />Like some of the earlier Joanna Brady mysteries, I did find some missing details here.  Whatever happened to Maggie MacFerson, for example, after she threatened to destroy Brady's career? Because Jance does such a fine job in developing her characters and because she adds true emotional intensity to the involving mystery, I found I didn't mind.<br />Jance does an excellent job interweaving the mystery with the emotional and personal lives of her characters. As Brady is losing the race with the murders, she is also losing her connection to her mother, her daughter, and her husband. The harder she tries, the more she risks everything she wants out of life. Resolution of these personal matters is every bit as important as the resolution of the mystery, and Jance does a fine job delivering a satisfying conclusion to both.	2001-08-22
1871124:US	49115690	R39950ALFNPW9A	0312280335	99979221	Corpse de Ballet: A Nine Muses Mystery: Terpsichore	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding mystery--ballet, regency romance, and murder	Juliet Bodine will do almost anything to avoid having to write her overdue regency romance so, when her friend Ruth calls for help with her choreographing a ballet of GREAT EXPECTATIONS, Juliet jumps at the chance. She helps her friend with the story but can't stop investigating the strange 'accidents' that seem to be happening. Or are they really accidents.<br />Although even her romantically interested NYPD detective doesn't believe her, Juliet believes that she is on the trail of murder.<br />Author Ellen Pall has created a wonderful story. Its depiction of the ballet industry, with its narcissistic dancers, petty (and not so petty) intrigue, and constant sexual tension is completely believable. Its depiction of the life of a romance author is also wonderful although unfortunately few regency authors earn enough to enjoy the lifestyle that Juliet does. Pall does a fabulous job with her characters, making each come to life.<br />I highly recommend this excellent novel.	2001-08-19
1873127:US	49115690	RBWVAQOSLL117	0312253451	884233496	Better Than Sex: A Mystery Featuring Anneke Haagen	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cute--food is a four letter word. Not enough detecting	Lindsay Summers probably had it coming. After all, if you're a complete witch, sleep with a married man, try to get major food groups outlawed, blackmail your advisor, and produce bad research for your disertation, you are probably going to get poisoned. The only question is, who is going to do it.<br />Just about everyone at the San Francisco sports bar where Lindsay is doing her 'research' are candidates. Even our heroine, Anneke Haagen was just about mad enough to do something violent. But only one of them actually killed Lindsay. Anneke and her police lieutenant Karl volunteer to help the San Francisco police.  Better yet, they bring on their secret weapon, Zoe Kaplan, 19-year-old journalism student, to investigate.  It's just as well that they do. Zoe turns out to be the only character in the novel who does much investigation at all.  While Anneke eats her way through San Francisco, Zoe puts herself in danger and digs out all of the facts.<br />BETTER THAN SEX is well written, amusing, and offers fine characterization for the minor characters.  Unfortunately, the primary characters, Anneke and Karl, don't actually play much of a role in the mystery. Maybe they should have focussed on their honeymoon.<br />I enjoyed reading this book but think Holtzer could have toned down the food and turned up the mystery.	2001-08-17
1873396:US	49115690	R9EV9NPFYXUQW	0671319868	762072434	The Philosophical Strangler (Joe's World)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great start--funny with a twist--but doesn't quite finish	THE PHILOSOPHICAL STRANGLER starts off hot--with a great combination of adventure and humor. Grayboar, a strangler with an inclination to philosophy, and his business manager Ignace, have a good thing going. There's no lack of customers and Ignace hoards every penny he can. So long as they can stay away from politics and religion, they've got it made. A philosophical strangler is inherently funny and author Eric Flint's writing, humorous insights, and throw aways (e.g., Grayboar's girlfriend is Schrodenger's Cat) will keep you laughing<br />Naturally, they can't quite follow Ignace's rules. Ignace (the narrator)loses the argument to Grayboar's philosophy and the two end up plunged deep into both politics and especially religion.<br />The second half of this novel becomes a much more predictable adventure story. I was disappointed to find that Grayboar's philosophy somehow got lost. Although Ignace stayed consistent (and consistently funny), the second half felt as if it was running short a cylinder.<br />I enjoyed this book and feel no shame in recommending it. Unfortunately, it fell slightly short of the promise offered in the first half.	2001-08-17
1883218:US	49115690	R2T6Y3YXDDBC3L	1890768324	571406312	Rosewood's Ashes: A Tory Travers/David Alvarez Mystery (Tory Travers/David Alvarez Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent and fascinating story	Tory Travers is having a bad day--she's sick, pregnant, unsure what to do with her boyfriend, and she's got to go back to her family home because her father is in a coma after a hit-and-run accident. Or was it an accident? David Alvarez, her boyfriend, decides to come along.<br />When they land in Florida, Tory's day gets worse. A young woman they met on the plane is killed by a speeding car. With Tory's reputation from her troubled youth, she is an immediate suspect. Although cop-Alvarez is able to turn off the pressure this time, he decides to use his spare time investigating the killing.<br />The evidence (and author Aileen Schumacher's story) keeps returning to the tragic events of 1923 when a white lynch mob descended on the black town of Rosewood, burning it to the ground. Still, what possible connection could there be between an ancient racial injustice and contemporary murder?<br />Schumacher does an excellent job balancing between the present and the past, drawing parallels, and letting the suspense of the horrors of 1923 add to the sense of danger in the present. ROSEWOOD'S ASHES is a fine mystery with enough twists and turns and red herrings to keep any reader interested. Where it excells, though, is in its descriptions of people and their relationships. Tory's relationship with her father and with Alvarez. Lissy's relationship with 'The Man,' and Alvarez's relationships with just about everyone.<br />I recommend this book highly.	2001-08-10
1886186:US	49115690	RWX7VKOFT9KRD	1888310855	51815675	What Now, King Lear?: A Gil Yates Private Investigator Novel (Gil Yates Private Investigator Novel, 6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast paced, funny, but with a cynical side	Private Investigator Gil Yates (known to his family as Malvin Stark)is hired to investigate the death of a Texas billionaire. The man's will left his huge estate to his three daughters and his widow, but with the stipulation that, in the event of a murder, nobody get anything until the killer is found.<br />The wife (Yates's boss) is the police's favorite suspect but they have no evidence. She favors any of the three daughters or, more to the point, their husbands.<br />Yates investigates and sure enough, all three of the sons in law are really terrible people.  Still, did they kill the old man?<br />Yates brings a cynical outlook on the world that is often funny but sometimes over the top. His comments on his wife (Tyranny Rex) sometimes cross the line to cruelty. In fact, Yates doesn't seem to like anyone (which is fine), but also holds almost everyone in contempt (which isn't).<br />Author Alistair Boyle keeps up a fast pace and you'll plunge along behind.  I read WHAT NOW, KING LEAR? in a single sitting.	2001-08-08
1889754:US	49115690	R8UG6L66MN6HG	0743406222	236139271	Grift Sense (Tony Valentine Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting but not quite there	Retired cop Tony Valentine is called to Las Vegas to investigate an apparent cheat at the blackjack tables. He may be sixty-something but he's still a tough guy an can prove it with his judo. He also has a database of every cheat he ever ran into in his years in Atlantic City--a database that seems to indicate that this cheater can only be a dead man.<br />There is a lot to like about this debut novel by James Swain.  First, the Las Vegas security and gambling had a ring of truth to them. The catwalks and constant video coverage felt real. Second, although Swain occasionally worked too hard to make Valentine a tough guy (I know Elmore Leonard must work hard to make his characters seem tough but when you read Leonard, it feels natural), most of the time Valentine is a sympathetic and likable character. Having recently lost his wife and on the outs with his son, you want Valentine to win.<br />Now onto what is wrong. First, Valentine is the only multidimensional character. Second, Swain cheats when in point of view, having characters 'think' things that they would never think. This may seem to help with the mystery but it doesn't. (I don't want to say more on this as it may give away too much of the plot).<br />Bottom line, I enjoyed this novel and wish Swain well on his next.	2001-08-06
1893392:US	49115690	R2Q6B6IYSUQTIM	0312878710	296290612	Diamond Eye (Max Diamond)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Emotionally moving but too much coincidence	Postal Inspector Max Diamond discovers child porn/snuff film copy mixed into standard videos and sets out on a one-man crusade to eliminate this terrible and emotionally disturbing evil. Along the way he deals with the local Cuban Mafia of Miami, Peruvian terrorists, malingering postal workers, and two apparently accidental deaths of lawyers who went to college with Diamond.<br />Arthur Rosenfeld does a good job creating a powerful motivation for Diamond to disregard his orders and continue his investigation against all odds. Diamond himself is a fully drawn character and his interest in t'ai chi and philosophy give him added depth. The book is hard to put down.<br />Although I found DIAMOND EYE compelling, several serious flaws prevented it from being the great novel it could have been.  First, Diamond badly mistreats his ex-girlfriend. After a sexual encounter, he ignores her calls, refuses to meet with her, and generally treats her like a subhuman.  Second, the string of coincidences that author Arthur Rosenfeld uses to pull together just about everything that happens to Diamond goes beyond novelistic license to the implausible.<br />DIAMOND EYE is a powerful and well written book. The scene where Diamond and his boss rescue a postal worker from a nasty customer is a small gem.  Enjoy it and try not to think too much about how unlikely all the coincidences really are.	2001-08-03
1895974:US	49115690	R2VXE0N9DA706C	0892967056	687891835	Slayer of Gods	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent mystery, great history. Read it.	Pharaoh Tutankhamun is concerned. If Nefertiti's death was not an accident, but murder, the very soul of Egypt is in danger. Since Egypt has still not recovered from the disaster of Akhenaten's rule (the heretic Pharaoh had tried to replace the Egyptian gods with Aten, a one-god that only Akhenaten could address, tearing Egypt apart). Tutankhamun orders Meren, his spy-master to track down the killer and let Tutankhamun take his royal vengence.<br />Meren travels from northern Egypt to the Horizon of Aten, an abandoned city established by Akhenaten as his capital, and then to the southern frontier of the vast empire searching for clues and for anyone alive--it soon appears that most everyone who was near Nefertiti the day she died is in danger themselves. Although Meren doesn't feel that he is making progress, when he returns to Memphis, his family is threatened if he doesn't abandon his search.<br />Author Linda S. Robinson does an excellent job describing ancient Egypt, building characters that gain the reader's sympathy, and depicting the fascinating world that Akhenaten's paranoid reign of terror had created out of one of the oldest civilizations in the world. Although Robinson delivers a history lesson, you'll hardly notice, so smoothly does she integrate history into mystery.<br />Robinson does a fine job giving the readers enough clues to stay ahead of Meren, but only barely. I found myself waiting in anticipation for the next crisis, only to wince when it finally happened. Robinson's smooth style makes SLAYER OF GODS easy to read without being juvenile.<br />This may be the best historical mystery I've read this year.  Excellent.	2001-08-01
1898977:US	49115690	R1MF35EJ66T34G	031286874X	610120864	The Bishop and the Beggar Girl of St. Germain (A Father Blackie Ryan Mystery)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Great writing, obvious mystery	Bishop Blackie is off to Paris to chaperone his boss and to solve a little mystery while he's there. A popular French Priest has disappeared, apparently sucked back into 3rd century Gallo-Roman Paris. Blackie may have faith, but he thinks that a more modern explanation is likely. Yet how could a well-known and much recognized Priest simply vanish?<br />Fans of Andrew Greeley and the Bishop Blackie series will rejoice at the return of this fiesty and witty detective. Working with a providentially provided translater (the beautiful Beggar Girl of St. Germain), Blackie goes to work tracking down clues and interviewing a number of odious males and wonderful females (this seems to be a theme for Greeley).<br />All of Greeley's works reflect his Catholic faith, yet do so without being offensive to those with other beliefs. Some may be put off with what could be seen as an overly saccarine view of women, but THE BISHOP AND THE BEGGAR GIRL OF ST. GERMAIN pulls off this balance well.<br />Unfortunately, the mystery that underlies THE BISHOP AND THE BEGGAR GIRL is fairly obvious. Although Blackie must wait for divine revelation, most mystery readers will know the solution to this mystery before they have read fifty pages.  Come on, Father Greeley--make us work at it, that's why we read mysteries in the first place....	2001-07-30
1899432:US	49115690	R3ABM2RBB555LO	0553801880	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Witty, fun, with a nice touch of mystery	Tobias March walks into Lavinia Lake's life and proceeds to ruin it, driving her from her occupation as antiques dealer in Italy back to London. He claims to have good reason, but Lavinia isn't sure whether Tobias is protecting her from the villain, or is the criminal himself.<br />Once in London, Tobias and Lavinia are forced to work together as Lavinia undertakes a new career as private investigator--all of this in regency-era England.<br />Amanda Quick writes a fast-paced and amusing story and SLIGHTLY SHADY is no exception.  While she doesn't beat the reader over the head with the sexual tension between these two characters, it is obviously there.  Tobias's inclination to protect Lavinia may disguise itself as indifference, but it is clearly something very different.<br />Balancing mystery and romance in a single novel is a challenging feat. Too often in other novels, characters seem to drop everything and make love because they have reached the appropriate chapter, even as the terrible villain closes in on them. SLIGHTLY SHADY does a better job than most in maintaining this balance.<br />Many of the reviewers have trashed this book, which I think is unfair. SLIGHTLY SHADY is an enjoyable read....	2001-07-30
1908375:US	49115690	R1G1H1C2R2SCCI	0312261241	491453395	Ashes of the Elements (Hawkenlye Mystery Trilogy)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	We couldn't get enough of Josse and Helewise	and so they're back.<br />Seeing Sir Josse and Abbess Helewise in action again was the high point of this interesting story. Building on the fondness that started in FORTUNE LIKE THE MOON, author Alys Clare introduces a heightened degree of sexual tension between these two characters.<br />In this story, a man is killed in the ancient forest near the Abbey. The Sheriff writes it up to the 'forest people,' mythical dwellers who still worship the goddess and have strange rites they carry out with the full moon. Helewise doesn't believe the Sheriff has properly investigated and asks for Josse's help.<br />Because ASHES OF THE ELEMENTS has more to do with the forest than with the medieval setting, it lacks some of the historical detail that made FORTUNE LIKE THE MOON so interesting. The larger problem, for me at least, was that Josse and Helewise really didn't do much to solve the mystery. Here, their powers of observation that proved so critical in FORTUNE barely opened the doors. They relied on luck and psychic connections to finally discover who did the killing.<br />ASHES OF THE ELEMENTS is a fine novel, but it lacks the punch that the earlier FORTUNE provided.	2001-07-23
1910666:US	49115690	R1U0GL5MQQOTW	0671319914	540145839	Melchior's Fire	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Nonstop action--much better	The crew of the salvage ship Stanley is in trouble. They lose their salvage in an alien attack and ripe for a tycoon's offer. He knows the coordinates to the fabulous Three Kings, a system with three human-inhabitable planets, and a treasure-trove of alien and quasi-natural marvels. The Stanley crew is game and the human race could use the help--it is slowly dying after the loss of contact with Earth and the other advanced worlds.<br />What follows is an action-packed adventure as the small crew of salvage experts trigger what just might be the biggest trap in the universe.<br />MELCHIOR'S FIRE is a sequel to the much inferior BALSHAZZAR'S SERPENT (reading the earlier novel is not essential to enjoying MELCHIOR'S FIRE). Author Jack L. Chalker's universe is fascinating and this, together with the non-stop action makes up for a variety of authorly sins (the characters could be better developed, the dialogue is sometimes a little clunky, and the author intrusion is, uh, intrusive).<br />I approached MELCHIOR'S FIRE with some trepidation after my experience with BALSHAZZAR'S SERPENT, but found myself quickly hooked, reading the entire (short) novel in a single sitting.	2001-07-21
1911734:US	49115690	RY6ROK7LMM312	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Action, Dialogue, limited Susan--almost perfect	Any time a new Spenser book comes out, readers ask 'is the old Spenser back' or is this another obsessed with Susan, Hawk does the dirty work story? Well, the old Spenser is back and that's definitely good.<br />Basic plot--beautiful widow comes to Spenser and asks him to find who killed her husband. Spenser can't turn down a beautiful woman so he takes the job but finds that Potshot Arizona is a mess. The Preacher's mob is collecting protection money from the town, depressing property values and generally being bad folks. The town fathers pay Spenser to bring in all of his tough guy buddies (from previous books in the series) and clean up the town.<br />In POTSHOT, author Robert B. Parker delivers action, Spenser's trademark snappy dialogue, Hawk and Susan Silverman in small enough doses that you like them again, and uh, did I mention action. The testosterone will load you up for a week.<br />I read the book in one sitting and couldn't turn the pages fast enough....<br />So, set aside your logical side and be prepared to wallow in some pretty good writing, story telling, dialogue, testosterone, and all-around classic Spenser....	2001-07-20
1914453:US	49115690	R3I4MP9XV4MUPV	0345418670	381731385	Reunion: A Pip and Flinx Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rollercoaster adventure--with a little deux ex machine	Alan Dean Foster's Flinx and Pip are off adventuring again. Flinx returns to Earth to research his history and the experiments that gave him limited psychic powers. While there, he penetrates a vast database and learns that someone has stolen secrets--about him. That sends him off on new adventures, toward a reunion with an old (but beautiful) enemy.<br />Foster dishes up an escalating diet of adventure. From his adventures on earth, to the near-disaster on a remote AAnn planet inhabited largely by mineral creatures, to a vast alien artifact, Flinx lurches from one set of problems to the next. Fortunately for him (but possibly unfortunately for the reader), Flinx seems to get help from on high whenever he gets in too serious a problem.<br />While I would have preferred to see Flinx solve more of his own problems, I still found it hard to put down this exciting and well written novel....	2001-07-18
1921005:US	49115690	R28UZIOJSA478B	0061051713	767649962	The King of Dreams (Prestimion Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating world, painfully slow start	Prestimion is getting older, but he cannot go to his senior throne with the world safe. His long-time enemies are again looking to rebellion, this time attempting to split the planetary government of Majipoor. Can Prestimion, together with younger associate and now Coronal Dekkeret, overcome these enemies one more time--especially when they control the power to bring nightmares even to members of Prestimion's family?<br />Robert Silverberg is a wonderful writer and his Majipoor world is beautifully created. Silverberg also obviously loves his characters. Even the evil Mandralisca is sympathetically drawn.<br />I had two major problems with this novel.  First, it spent too much time dealing with character introspection rather than moving the story forward. In limited amounts, this is great. We learn about the characters and empathize with their goals. In excess, we wallow in their wallowing as the plot stalls. Silverberg walked painfully close to this line.  Second, the resolution of the novel included the creation of a new power in Majipoor. Prestimion had earlier objected to this, with an apparently legitimate concern for the potential for tyranny. This concern was not dealt with adequately and the assumption that a hereditary power could be created based on the moral virtue of a founding member is clearly inadequate.<br />THE KING OF DREAMS is an enjoyable read. Silverberg loves his world and his characters and you can't help loving them to.	2001-07-13
1924223:US	49115690	R18A15HO1F8LYY	1882593448	19475201	The Ferryman Will Be There: An Ellis Portal Mystery (Ellis Portal Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great insight into the homeless, but weak characters	Former Judge and former homeless person Ellis Portal descends once again into the world of the homeless to track down a girl who vanished when her father was shot. He discovers teen gangs, evil corporations, drug dealing, and the physical underbelly of Toronto.<br />I loved the way author Rosemary Aubert described the lifestyles of the homeless, their ability to survive and their schemes to protect themselves. Aubert is certainly a talented writer and THE FERRYMAN WILL BE THERE is a pleasant read.<br />The problem with this book is that although Portal and the other characters express ample emotions, the reader hears about them rather than feeling them. Aubert missed the chance to increase the reader suspense by giving Portal only a tangential direct stake in the outcome. Because Portal doesn't really care, neither does the reader. Finally, this is supposed to be a mystery. Aubert doesn't give us any misdirection to let the readers buy into the solution.<br />I enjoyed this book, but I could have enjoyed it so much more.	2001-07-11
1933036:US	49115690	RHIT1DI02RX5O	0316592382	617523773	Fearless Jones (Fearless Jones Novel, No.1)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Being Black in the 1950s--powerful	Paris Minton has it made--he owns a used bookstore so he can read all day and he's one of the few black entrepeneurs in the 1950s Watts (Los Angeles). When a beautiful woman walks into his shop, though, he knows he is in trouble--and boy is he right.<br />Fortunately, Paris has a friend who can deal with trouble. Once he bails Fearless Jones out of jail, he has a fighting chance and the two of them spend the rest of this fine novel battling for their lives, and trying to uncover the secret to a suspected multimillion dollar fortune.<br />Author Walter Mosley does a wonderful job describing black life in the 1950s--where police brutality against blacks was expected and where driving with a white woman could get a black man lynched. Even better, Mosley develops two characters in Paris and Fearless who, although completely different, both pursue their goals of justice despite terrible obstacles.<br />I found FEARLESS JONES to be a riveting mystery. The novel is not perfect--the mystery had a few loose ends I would have liked to see wrapped up, but these are minor quibbles that shouldn't interfere with the reader's enjoyment.<br />Excellent and highly recommended.&lt;P	2001-07-04
1937924:US	49115690	R1VI1PJBSCNDRF	0451458184	263347790	Shadowrun 39: Tails you Lose	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fantasy with a personal touch--very good	Alma has a problem--she has been framed for murder and has a ticking time bomb in her head. If she can't track down whoever set her up, her job will end terminally. Night Owl has a problem too. As a shadow runner, she has to deal with some pretty unsavory characters, but now she has three major gangs and corporate security pro Alma all after her.<br />Both Alma and Night Owl try to do good, but the two approach things from different angles. Night Owl sees evil everywhere she looks (and in the future dystopia of the Shadowrun world, this makes a lot of sense). Alma sees good. Of course the odds are that neither of them will get what they want with such powerful enemies after them.<br />Author Lisa Smedman hasn't written a big book about saving the universe--instead, the action is personal. Both Alma and Night Owl are admirable characters in their own way, but also intensely flawed. I found myself rooting for both of them although they are on opposite sides of the action.<br />Very nice.	2001-07-01
1938588:US	49115690	R2UDM8LIL8TC13	078670876X	95886759	The Orange Curtain: A Jack Liffey Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent novel. Great characters	Jack Liffey finds missing children and, in THE ORANGE CURTAIN, he must look into the strange (to him at least) culture of Orange County (formerly a bedroom community to Los Angeles but now a major center in its own right). The Orange County culture he investigates includes the ultra-rich, Vietnamese merchants and gangs, and an insane young man who flirts with genius.<br />It is the characters that make THE ORANGE CURTAIN stand out although certainly author John Shannon handles adventure well enough (with both physical and psychological challenges to Liffey). Both Liffey and insane Billy Gudger have their own challenges in dealing with others, rendering Liffey the one man who may be able to communicate effectively with Billy.<br />Shannon's touch for characters also applies to minor characters. Liffey's daughter Maeve, for example, is a delightful 13 going on 30.<br />THE ORANGE CURTAIN is less a mystery to be solved than it is a set of observations into human nature, the intermingled but distinct societies of Southern California, and the challenges a man must face to stand himself in the morning. Does that sound heavy? In this case, it isn't. The novel is a fast read with several great a-ha moments.<br />Highly Recommended.	2001-06-30
1942887:US	49115690	R2NDYVN54NNLG4	0821768190	449953581	Once An Angel: Jewels of the Sea (Ballad)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Nonstop action and romantic tension	Grace Fisk, youngest of the pirate sisters, has always wanted peace and a place in society. Her engagement to Lord William Mason provides this, and she's sure that she can put her love for Jackson out of her mind. When Jackson's pirate crew captures her ship, all the bets are off and the action goes non-stop.<br />Between storm, pirate attacks, the outbreak of the American revolution, treachery, and midnight raids, author Tammy Hilz turns up the pressure and never lets it up. Hilz does an excellent job integrating romantic tension with adventure, allowing Grace to grow as she confronts life-threatening obstacles.<br />In some ways, writing peaceful and needy Grace must have been hard, but Hilz delivers. ONCE AN ANGEL may be the best in this fine series.	2001-06-27
1948468:US	49115690	R30JDS8B1YRJ8C	0380978849	701835154	Lord of the Silent	Books	5	28	30	N	N	They're back--exciting adventure, Egypt, wwI all in one	Amelia Peabody, her husband Emerson, son Ramses, his wife Nefret, and the usual host of odd friends and enemies (both British and Egyptian) are back in this World War I dated mystery.<br />Someone has restarted the tome robbings that Sethos had dominated. This is clearly intolerable, but is it connected with the strange set of attacks that disrupts the Peabody-Emerson clan's lives. Amelia arranges to send Ramses away to keep him safe, but he seems to end up in even more danger--and so does Amelia. At least arch-enemy Sethos is dead--or is he???<br />If you like this series (as I do), then celebrate. This is an excellent addition--possibly better than HE SHALL THUNDER IN THE SKY. If you haven't discovered it, then give it a try. The combination of Egyptian archeology, murder, and World War I spying makes for an exciting read.<br />The strength of this novel comes only partly from the plot and action. Author Elizabeth Peters obviously loves her characters--and the reader is likely to love them as well. Opinionated, quirky, and laced with post-Victorian manners and clever dialogue, Amelia, Emerson, Ramses, and the rest make you want to keep turning the pages.	2001-06-22
1951226:US	49115690	RX0LQKHPUCLIP	0312873379	90930605	Knight or Knave (The Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan; Book 2)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Disjoint plot and unlikeable characters	KNIGHT OR KNAVE can't decide what it is about or who its protagonist should be. Is it Queen Ysa, who is terribly evil yet trying to do the right thing for her country?  Or maybe it's Ashen, who can't decide who she wants to be married to and then changes into an absolute witch (with a 'b') when confronted with her step-son's choice of a woman. Or maybe it is Rohan, the title character who is clearly a knight, at least as far as this book is concerned. In what possible way could he be classified as a knave.<br />Evil continues to threaten in the north, but it doesn't really make an appearance until the end of the book.  Ysa continues to drive any plot development but she is a relatively minor player in this novel and, as a result, the plot doesn't develop very much at all.  Instead the characters run around, kill one another, and don't seem to learn a great deal from their mistakes.<br />I grew up with Andre Norton.  TIME TRADERS and especially WITCH WORLD and THREE AGAINST WITCH WORLD are among my favorite novels. I'd love to see Norton return to her earlier form. Unfortunately, this isn't the book that does it. Since it's the second book in a 4 part series, I have my doubts on whether the series can be saved.<br />Check out the quotes on the back of the book. If you've ever read such lame praise anywhere else, I'd be surprised.<br />The novel is well written and I found the universe Norton and Miller have created to be intriguing and full of potential. Unfortunately, they have yet to deliver.	2001-06-20
1951855:US	49115690	R2NZRQSQXFFBID	0393047628	68192926	Panicking Ralph: A Harpur & Iles Mystery	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thin line between police and criminals blurs even more	The Harpur and Iles series is truly fascinating and PANICKING RALPH is no exception. Bill James writes snappy dialogue that might make you laugh or possibly cringe. His characters, especially his criminals, are well crafted and motivated.<br />In PANICKING RALPH, sometimes insane police chief Mark Lane decides that this is the time to clear his city of its drug industry. With the former drug king pin dead, several syndicates, including one led by Ralph Ember, the title character, are trying to carve out a controling position but each is vulnerable.<br />Iles recommends against any drastic action. Someone will fill the vacuum and it would be better if local and controllable criminals are involved rather than new criminals from London. Harpur, however, is inspired (for once) by Lane and decides to go under cover to see what he can do.<br />One of the strength of James's novels is the interplay between Lane, Harpur, and Iles. Unfortunately, PANICKING RALPH downplays this aspect, although a few jewels shine through (like Iles's invitation to have Harpur visit his home since Iles's wife can no longer understand why she would ever have had an affair with Harpur), for the most part, this aspect is missing and missed.<br />As always, James highlights the thin line between police and criminals. Harpur's calculation that Iles is 60% likely to be honest reflects the legitimate concern that all of us have in a world so corrupted by drug money.<br />PANICKING RALPH is not the best in the Harpur and Iles series, but even second best is very good indeed.<br />...	2001-06-20
1957360:US	49115690	R250PC2MEVFDZ9	0060199563	461879486	Thief of Time	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great book--funny, with just enough kick	Terry Pratchett doesn't write complex character-driven novels. What he writes--what he is the master of--is funny and illogical books that make you think. Imagine a mix of Douglas Adams and J.R.R. Tolkien and you start to have an idea of what Pratchett delivers.<br />He delivers again in THIEF OF TIME. The auditors (nice enough beings, perhaps, but they really would like to simplify their jobs by eliminating such complexities as living organisms) have come up with a plot to destroy time through a perfect clock. Only Death's granddaughter and an 800-year-old monk with his apprentice even know what's going on and they are certain to be too late.<br />Pratchett deals with the concepts of time, uses a set of cliches from a boarding house matron to develop an intriguing philosophy, introduces the fifth rider of the apocalypse, and generally has a lot of fun.<br />Trust me, you will too.	2001-06-15
1960777:US	49115690	RU1SYTX08548O	0786867280	908407552	Silent Joe: A Novel	Books	5	17	19	N	N	T. Jefferson Parker at his best	If you haven't read T. Jefferson Parker, you're in for a treat. If you have, you'll want to read this one--it's a definite winner.<br />At four, Joe Trona was burned by acid, then adopted by Will and Mary Ann. Now, 24, he is a Deputy Sheriff and helps Will with little things like driving him between meetings, bugging offices, and dropping off ransom money.<br />Will is on his way to pick up a kidnapping victim when gunmen open fire, killing him. Joe feels responsible and vows to bring 'justice.' Of course, justice is a tricky concept. Will was involved in blackmail and definitely dirty politics in Orange County, CA. Joe won't be able to protect his father's memory and still send his killers to jail. Certainly he has no end of opportunities to get rich quick, though, if he will back off. Too many of his father's old political allies and enemies had reason to fear Will, reason to kill him.<br />T. Jefferson Parker writes a fast-paced story. He deftly weaves together several mysteries--the murder, the kidnapping, an apparently accidental death of a maid, and develops Joe as a complex and believable character.<br />Not many books make me want to call in sick to work just so I can finish them. I can't tell you how tempted I was to do just this with this fine novel.	2001-06-13
1962514:US	49115690	R2AOP8VVYU5ZRR	0312872356	54502094	The Ring of Five Dragons (The Pearl)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Very nice balance between science and magic	The V'ornn have conquered the Kundalan people and are raping their planet but are unable to get to the bottom of their secrets. Yet, secrets are what the V'ornn are truly seeking. Although the Kundalan feel abandoned by their goddess, still, their magical powers give them the a limited ability to resist the advanced science of the V'ornn. Some day, their prophesy holds, a savior will come to reclaim their ancient religion.<br />Eric Van Lustbader does a great job developing a well balanced match of science and magic which, before the end of this series are certain to come together into something more holistic. The internal politicing, murder, feuds, and jockeying for position within the V'ordd is also well developed. I especially liked the development of the unscrupulous Kurgan. While most of Van Lustbader's characters are fairly flat (they are always heroic, or cheating, or drunk, or sadistic), Kurgan is a bit more complex, filled with hatred but capable of learning and changing. Given that most of this books villains are dead at the end, I suspect we'll see a lot more of Kurgan in furture volumes.<br />Van Lustbader mixes up the action with mysticism, giving the reader a fast moving melange of treats.	2001-06-12
1966856:US	49115690	R2PBBMCYRHYZNL	0312268610	96143615	High Lonesome Road	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent mystery with great characters	Erica Hill could get on your nerves. She certainly got on victim advocate Chloe Newcombe's nerves and, when Erica suggested getting together, Chloe made it a point not to call her. Two weeks later, Erica was dead and Chloe felt responsible. Her responsibility grew when the local police named Erica's precious son as a suspect.<br />The more Chloe investigated the case, the more she found that Erica had been to bed with just about every man she met. Yet, until recently, Erica had loved them and left them. Suddenly, about the time she'd contacted Chloe, she'd also contacted many of her former acquaintences looking for something. Like Chloe, however, few of them had bothered to listen. Except maybe someone had. Chloe can't believe that the murder is a coincidence. It has to be connected with whatever Erica was looking for.<br />Betsy Thornton has written a small gem of a mystery here. Her characters are well developed with both flaws and virtues that make the reader concerned for their safety and success. Her occasional use of poetic language is actually useful. I especially enjoyed her description of Arizona where old cowboys and aging hippies live side-by-side but in complete misunderstanding of one another.<br />As a mystery, HIGH LONESOME ROAD is one of the best I've read this year. Thornton disguises her red herrings well enough that even an experienced mystery reader will be confused.<br />I very much enjoyed this fine novel.	2001-06-08
1971035:US	49115690	R25WCA6AMG49S0	0345430409	651625754	Ascendance (The Second Demonwars Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent job of characterizing villains	In ASCENDANCE, R. A. Salvatore does an excellent job characterizing his villains. Both Aydrian, son of Jilseponie and Nightbird, and Marcalo De'Unnero are nicely described and well motivated. Indeed, these two characters are the dominant characters in this novel (which sets the stage to begin a new series).  Jilseponie, in contrast, shows moments of promise but doesn't really engage the reader the way she did in the earlier series.<br />Salvatore does rely on coincidence, but this is not really obtrusive and shouldn't bother any but the most fussy reader. Rather, it is enjoyable to see Aydrian and De'Unnero scheme their way to the top.<br />Although necessary for the continuance of the series, I thought the casual allowing of Jilseponie to escape was unconvincing. She is clearly the major obstacle in the pair's path to absolute power. Absentmindedly sending soldiers to have her killed on the road doesn't address her importance to the two, nor the hatred both men share for her.	2001-06-05
1985626:US	49115690	R15XPYOZ6IPTL9	0312269684	699207249	The Ambiguity of Murder (Inspector Alvarez Novels)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Witty and clever--sip and savor	A retired Bolivian diplomat is found dead at the bottom of his swimming pool and Inspector Alvarez is called in to investigate. Alvarez finds a number of suspects--the diplomat had been sleeping with another man's wife, refusing to pay a builder, engaging in shouting matches with several people, and generally not a likable man. Still, which of them actually killed him?<br />Prodded by his wife and his boss, Alvarez continues his search for justice, free brandy, and a decent meal (not necessarily in that order).<br />Author Roderic Jeffries must have loved writing this fine novel. His Inspector Alvarez is a slow moving, heavy drinking, and funny man. Jeffries's dialogue is witty, his insights into humanity ring true, and he writes a fine mystery too.<br />I found myself savoring each drop of this short novel--much like enjoying a fine--uh, brandy.	2001-05-25
1991443:US	49115690	R133O6IRX1PZYQ	0740712268	92107282	The Sacrifice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fascinating but talky mystery	Father Wheatley has decided to leave the Anglican church and join the Roman Catholic--as a priest and bringing his wife with him. Catholic fundamentalists, Anglicans, and his family are all concerned and angry. Somebody is angry enough to set a bomb that would have killed Wheatley if he hadn't been delayed. The police ask Catholic Priest, Father Koesler for help.<br />Author William X. Kienzle gives us an assortment of angry red herrings... Could one of the hot-headed but aging priests have taken this ultimate step to defend their religion? Koesler is certain that there is a religious connection and a way to determine the truth.<br />Kienzle does a fine job developing his characters. Koesler, in particular, is likable and believable. His writing style, however, does lend itself to talkiness. Although all of the information he presents was very interesting, I would have preferred to have it given to me once, and get on with the mystery.<br />Look at THE SACRIFICE as a two-fer. It's a fine mystery and a fascinating look into Roman Catholic politics (Kienzle is an ex-priest) as well as some of the differences and similarities between two important Christian religions.	2001-05-21
1993729:US	49115690	R36SXGKTX41WDT	0385496370	873444808	Murder at Bertram's Bower: A Beacon Hill Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Victorian Boston--mixing proper with murder--great fun	Has Jack the Ripper moved from London to prey on reforming prostitutes living in Bertram's Bower? When two are found brutally slashed to death, Victorian Boston goes into panic. Fearing her childhood friend's rescue mission will be destroyed, Caroline Ames forces her brother Addington and friend MacKenzie to help her investigate--despite opposition from the police and even her friend.<br />Cynthia Peale does an excellent job presenting characters that are both believable in the context of the Victorian era, and still sympathetic in our own day. She brings in enough history for flavor without overwhelming the reader with research.<br />The mystery is well crafted (although it is not especially difficult to guess the perpetrator) and well seasoned both with the historical detail and also with a strong romantic element. MacKenzie is completely infatuated with Caroline, yet cannot simply declare his affection. Addington has an even more serious problem--he admires an actress with a scandalous past. This, of course, would be completely inappropriate.<br />Peale does a fine job making her three primary characters sympathetic. When they are put in danger by their continued investigations, the reader really cares.<br />Well done.	2001-05-19
1994317:US	49115690	R1D8OSOVJJKR1H	188517392X	665349136	Tip a Canoe: A Jim P. Dandy Elderhostel Mystery (James P. Dandy Elderhostel Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fun mystery in an unlikely setting	This time, James P. Dandy promises, he won't get involved with the police. This time he'll use the Elderhostel to relax, spend some time with his girlfriend, and enjoy the beautiful South Carolina scenery and wildlife.  Uh, maybe next time, Jim.<br />At first the bodies turning up don't really bother Jim--people have boating accidents all the time. When he finds a body under a canoe wedged upside down in a tree, he's more concerned. When one of his fellow Senior Citizens, this one an ex-FBI employee, vanishes, he has to get involved plunging both himself and his girlfriend Dodee into danger.<br />Author Peter Abresch does a wonderful job building distinctive characters, developing a romantic relationship that complements the mystery plot, and describing both the South Carolina setting and the staff and guests in the Elderhostel. Jim's fellow Elderhostel guests are all individual and, for the most part, pieces of work<br />Abresch writes with a light style and you'll find yourself smiling at both characters and Abresch's witty dialogue. Using Senior Citizens and an Elderhostel as the characters and setting is a nice change from the familiar twenty/thirty-something of mystery novels. Maybe TIP A CANOE won't save the world but it is one heck of a nice read.	2001-05-18
1997248:US	49115690	R1KUANXABLYWNZ	0312252617	272135612	Fast Women	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Crusie gets better and better	Jennifer Crusie has taken her trademark humor and added a more complex and believable set of characters, then thrown in a dash of suspense to cook up an excellent novel--perhaps her best.<br />Nell Dysart is just out of a 22-year marriage and starts working for Gabe as office manager in Gabe's detective agency. There she tries to recreate the life she'd known, but Gabe is different (thank goodness) from Nell's ex Tim and fights back when she attempts to manipulate his life. They can't fight the attraction, however.<br />Crusie throws in parallel relationships between Gabe's cousin Riley and Nell's sister-in-law Suzanne and Gabe and Nell's college-aged children. All have to deal with similar issues of control and power and all deal with them in different ways.<br />Nell and Gabe don't get to be too settled down as an old mystery starts to unravel around them. The two get caught up in blackmail, arson, dog-napping, and murder. While they're battling each other, you know they're fighting for each other as well.<br />I liked the fact that Crusie let the humor come out of the characters and situations rather than force it. The exception is the opening sequence when Nell virtually destroys Gabe's office. This sequence was very funny, but it hinted at a character very different from the competent Nell we soon met.<br />Crusie takes full advantage of the freer format of the single title novel to introduce older characters (both Nell and Gabe are in their 40s), and sexual contacts outside of the pairing (Nell even makes out with Suzanne in a very funny scene).<br />I very much enjoyed this novel and recommend it without hesitation.	2001-05-16
2002996:US	49115690	R6I7POU3VTKKG	0312274602	557282295	An Unhallowed Grave: A Wesley Peterson Crime Novel (Wesley Peterson Crime Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent parallel development of history and mystery	Kate Ellis has developed an approach to mystery that parallels a historical event (in AN UNHALLOWED GRAVE the historical event is the lynch execution of a woman for murdering a child) and a current mystery (in this case the death by hanging of Pauline Brent). Sergeant Wesley Peterson, together with is boss, sex-starved Steve, and competent Rachel try to find motive for killing Pauline--a woman who fit into the background so well she shouldn't have been able to make any enemies.<br />As the mystery unfolds, Wesley discovers Pauline's secret. Now, rather than to few people with motive, there are too many. It turns out that relying on the historical parallels (being dug up by archeologist-buddy Neil) is key to solving the murder.<br />I enjoyed Ellis's earlier book THE ARMADA BOY but found AN UNHALLOWED GRAVE even better. Ellis writes well--definitely English but with little enough dialect that the novel is approachable by an American audience. Better yet, she doesn't write down to the reader, yet brings a thoughtful approach to both the mystery and the characters.<br />Somewhere between a cozy and gritty urban mystery, Ellis writes of bucolic but dangerous small-town England.  Excellent.	2001-05-11
2005678:US	49115690	R3NWT7RD0SUC8O	0312874634	607551570	DoOon Mode (The Mode Series)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Good 'Piers Anthony' mix of adventure and psychology	I'm a longtime fan of Piers Anthony and felt that DOOON MODE was, in many ways, a homecoming. Anthony mixed a bit of Xanth (Colene and her group actually visit Xanth during their mode-crossing), the Apprentice Adept (in the game playing the nulls conduct at the beginning), and the psychological insights that played such a major part in the Tarot series.<br />Anthony does a fine job integrating character psychological development with the story action, allowing both to reflect one another. Colene needs to grow in order to become a good wife for Darius but, more importantly, to achieve her potential as a person.  All of her friends try to help but, ultimately, may get in the way of her resolution.<br />Two warnings are appropriate.  First, DOOON MODE is sexually charged with descriptions of child abuse and rape. Children and young teens may find it disturbing. Second, the dialogue is incredibly clunky. It is difficult to imagine a depressed teen, even one as intelligent and travelled as Colene, saying some of the things she says--and why does she have to say them so often? Anthony runs through the Colene can't have what she wants with Darious thing about thirty times--maybe twentyfive too many.<br />It isn't perfect (the way, say Anthony's ON A PALE HORSE is), but DOOON MODE is vintage Anthony and worth the read.	2001-05-09
2017028:US	49115690	R10V9RPL3P0KQ	0671319752	272498178	Changer of Worlds (Worlds of Honor #3)	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Mostly above average--avoid the 'cats	CHANGER OF WORLDS includes four short stories and novellas set in Honor Harrington's universe.<br />Best of the four is FROM THE HIGHLANDS written by Eric Flint. A Manticoran captain joins with renegade Havenites, antislavery solarians, and a disgraced Manticoran noblewoman to rescue his daughter from kidnappers. To succeed, he must fight ethnic supermen, the Havenite SS, his own command chain dominated by the Manticore conservatives, and the local police.  Excellent.<br />Honor fans won't want to miss Ms. Midshipwoman Harrington--the beginning of Honor's career and nearly the end of it as she must face a superior officer bent on destroying her as well as external enemies. Relying on her leadership and skills rather than on conveniently discovered superweapons, this is classic Honor Harrington on a small scale.<br />From a historical perspective, Nightfall is essential to the Honor continuity. It deals with the internal struggle between Admiral McQueen and Saint-Juste and defines the direction for the Havenite government.<br />Way below average is the title story--Changer of Worlds. The treecats are cute and smart and all but this entire short story is simply a dialogue between a bunch of cats. Nothing happens, no character development takes place. The story merely describes the 'cats' decision to send the new colony of 'cats to follow Honor.  Yawn.  Read it if you love those 'cats--it is thankfully short after all.	2001-04-29
2017034:US	49115690	R2JQ4L92GJAYFX	0727855972	212180572	Deathtrap	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very nice--apparent suicide leads to 18-year old murder	DEATHTRAP begins with an apparent suicide--yet not all of the pieces fit. Inspector George Hennessey wonders why this young man would suicide now, when so much of his life is going well. When he discovers the victim was investigating an 18-year old murder, he is intrigued. When he discovers that the original investigation was hurried, he wonders if someone may be killing to cover up the true murder.<br />Peter Turnbull is a talented author and DEATHTRAP is a completely enjoyable read. It has a very British feel which Americans will enjoy for the differences. Inspector Hennessey is a well developed character that will appeal to the reader.<br />DEATHTRAP strides the middle ground between the British cozy and more hardcore mystery novels. I couldn't put it down.	2001-04-29
2017181:US	49115690	REA1LGQIM6YB	0312848692	169910975	Borrowed Tides	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Great ingredients, failed execution	Imagine a novel set in the near future where mankind is on the verge of attempting the stars--or falling back on itself. Imagine a heroic scientist, a dash of Native American legend, strange psychic abilities, an alien space hulk, and a time warp. Clearly Paul Levinson has assembled all of the ingredients of a great science fiction novel.<br />Unfortunately, Levinson falls far short of this promise. His science is a bit bizarre--his plot depends on the ability to turn around halfway to the destination. The idea of a halfway point with a space ship (whether under continuous drive or especially with inertia) is scientifically suspect. With inertia (as with the U.S. travel to the moon), it takes just as much fuel to reverse direction no matter how far you've traveled. With continuous acceleration, you would have to turn around far closer to the starting point than the end.<br />Readers can forgive suspect science if they're given interally logical stories. Here too, Levinson lets us down. We have long discussions about the impossibility of sending a human to the new planet--and then we send one. We have other long discussions about increasing the biomass on the ship (cool--use the time warp to overcome conservation of mass/energy, I like it) and then we never see what happens. The characters decide to have a baby for its presumed psychic abilities--did it have any? Who knows, Levinson never tells us.<br />Levinson can write.  Maybe he needs a critique partner to help him make sure everything sticks together.	2001-04-29
2024349:US	49115690	R10W85OG5SA36E	038533477X	389036711	The Twylight Tower (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good history, average mystery	Elizabeth is newly Queen and England is rocked by intrigue. The French and Spanish conspire to push their candidates for Elizabeth's husband--or her replacement. In England itself, the powerful jockey for their place in Elizabeth's court. Yet England is lately recovered from the civil wars that showed that any man with power could seize the crown. Can Elizabeth stand against all?<br />In THE TWYLIGHT TOWER, Karen Harper presents Elizabeth with an additional problem--murder. While at first the deaths appear accidental, they soon resolve to a major threat to Elizabeth herself. Elizabeth's privy council wait for her orders to swing into action (this is the third of Harper's Elizabeth mysteries after all so they know how to sidekick), but Elizabeth is too busy being enamored of Lord Robert to have much time for crime solving.<br />That, in a nutshell is the problem with the book.  The protagonist of a mystery is too busy to solve the mystery until the very end. Like most mystery readers, I prefer to see the protagonist struggle, seeking resolution in a number of ways. Waiting through two hundred pages for the protagonist to get around to it isn't what I want.<br />I enjoyed THE TWYLIGHT TOWER and I think the concept of Elizabeth as detective is delightful. As a mystery, I found it merely average, however.	2001-04-23
2028555:US	49115690	R3LI4EIOM6NWEM	0312877730	765759687	The Cassandra Complex (Emortality)	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Good future vision, too preachy	THE CASSANDRA EFFECT is set in a near future (mid-twentyfirst century) England. Overpopulation has become a major problem, huge corporations rule as the cabel, and plague wars have replaced the bomb as the great fear. Author Brian Stableford draws out logical consequences from today's biological sciences with discussions of disease, cloning, and population spikes.<br />Unfortunately, Stableford describes this potentially fascinating world through long blocks of descriptive dialogue, internal dialogue, and description. Rather than have information flow from the story, it is presented to the reader in huge slabs which must be choked down if one is to continue with the story.<br />I wanted to like this book more than I did. I find the premise interesting, the plot was certainly fine, and the one significant character, Lisa, a police officer and biologist, was likable and well motivated.<br />I found the dense writing to be a fairly stiff price to pay for an intriguing concept.	2001-04-19
2035833:US	49115690	R1QSLXN4GG6OKE	0446526673	518052701	Kingdoms of Light	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Silly but pleasant romp	The evil goblin armies of the Totumakk horde have overrun the goodguys wiping out the absent-minded but powerful white wizard Susnam Evyndd in the process. Once they've done this, they cast a spell that eliminates color from the land. All looks--uh--gray. The earth's only hope is Evyndd's pets--three cats, a dog, a bird, and a snake. Transformed into human shape, they must journey across the rainbow to discover and recapture color.<br />Does it sound horrible? Add to the thin plot that there isn't much characterization and that every time something terrible happens to our heros, they manage to discover some new magic power given to them by their master.<br />Still, I enjoyed this book. Alan Dean Foster is a fine author and even a light-weight novel like this one benefits from his writing style. Don't read this expecting to find the answers to the world's problems (or even any hint about what the world's problems might be). If you're looking for a light read, and especially if you like cats, birds, snakes, and dogs, check this one out.	2001-04-13
2040240:US	49115690	R36E9FOLO5OMO2	0373168713	3486513	Tame An Older Man (2001 Ways To Wed)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	TAME is HOT. Another great from Kara Lennox	Phoebe Lane has retired from her role in a leading soap opera and is now pursuing her college degree and working as a make-over artist. She's sure of one thing--she doesn't want to have anything to do with the artificial world of television.  Not even if her new neighbor is a hunky producer.<br />Wyatt Madison knows too many beautiful women who will do anything to make their marks on television. If Phoebe Lane seems a little different, well she is a beautiful blonde. She may say she's in college seeking her degree but he's seen the '2001 Ways to Wed' book on her shelf--he suspects she's after the famous MRS. degree rather than anything more academic. After all, what does a hot babe like Phoebe need with a degree.<br />Still, Phoebe can't help being neighborly and Wyatt can't help his male hormones or the way Phoebe excites him to the point where he wishes he was in college again. Both of them need to get past their fears and their certainty of what they know that 'just ain't so.' Kara Lennox sets them up and doesn't even let them see the trap that they're walking into.<br />Once again, author Lennox has created a quirky and sexy romp. The title is a little wacky (Wyatt is hardly 'older' as a thirty-something), but the writing is superior and the story-telling wonderful. I enjoyed the way Lennox brought in Phoebe's mother and set up characters from other novels in the 2001 Ways to Wed series. TAME AN OLDER MAN is another superior performance from HARLEQUIN AMERICAN rising star Kara Lennox.	2001-04-09
2046433:US	49115690	R3JPO4VFKUQQBQ	0312253559	306697410	The Wildcats of Exeter: Volume VIII of the Domesday Books	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great mystery in a truly important time period	King William (the conqueror)'s royal commission visits Exeter to resolve property ownership disputes but their arrival is marred by the death by murder of one of the claimants. Baron Nicholas Picard had cut a swath through the women of Exeter and few mourn his death, including his wife.  Still, could one of them have overcome such a powerful knight?<br />Despite resistance from the local Sheriff, Lord Ralph Delchard and his associates investigate both the murder and the property dispute. Each of the five claimants is convinced of the justice of their case. Each had good reason to wish Picard dead (including his unloved wife). Still, three women, an ancient Saxon, and a priest seem unlikely murderers.<br />Edward Marston does a fine job describing a fascinating time period when Norman rule was still new and still rode like a boot on the Saxon throat. His use of Brother Simon to provide comic relief works effectively to balance the narative and give moments of respite between the investigation. I would have liked to see a more fully developed character in Golde, Lord Ralph Delchard's wife, but otherwise find little to criticize in this fine historical mystery.	2001-04-03
2055070:US	49115690	R2TOGNLR473SZQ	0451457978	46111621	Kingdom of the Grail	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Roland, the Arthurian Grail, and Merlin all together--nice	What if Roland was not a Frankish savage but a Bretton, decended from Merlin himself? What if his famous battle was only the prelude to a greater war--the battle for control of the Holy Grail itself? That is the question Judith Tarr sets out to address in her fine KINGDOM OF THE GRAIL. It speaks well for her talent as an author that she succeeds.<br />Although Tarr combines and retells portions of two of the great Epics of Medieval Europe, she does so in a strongly human vein. Roland is not the brutal figure of the Epic, but a man torn by mixed blood. The romance between Roland and Sarissa adds humanity to the tale preventing it from becoming a self-indulgent hero-bashes-great-evil story.<br />I especially appreciated the lighter touches.  Tarr uses the antics of the puca, Tarik, keep her story from becoming overly serious and caught up in its pagan mysteries. I appreciated her obvious respect for the Arthur/Merlin and Roland legends and her ability to weave these together in such an approachable way.	2001-03-26
2061253:US	49115690	R2F59P79Y06P6Q	0380974894	363051018	The One Kingdom (The Swans' War, Book 1)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Great start--cool magic system	Two families continue a century-old battle, but now more esoteric forces have joined the battle. A knight has learned the secrets of a vanished order and is using these secrets to gain power and his revenge. On the side of peace are the Knights of the Vow--or are they really on the side of peace?  They too have their reasons to seek revenge.<br />Sean Russell does a fine job personalizing THE ONE KINGDOM. Elise Wills and Tam, a youth from the far-off Vale are especially well drawn.  The introduction of approachable and human characters makes it easier to enjoy this complex novel.<br />I especially enjoyed the magic system which Russell is developing. The river spirit is interesting enough, but the real beauty came from the strange paths which exist but which only a few people can see. The ability to see these paths, or to track an enemy through them, gives considerable power but also creates considerable danger.<br />The role of the new Knights of the Vow is not clearly defined in this novel but will, I hope, be more fully developed in sequels.<br />I fine introduction to a new series.	2001-03-21
2070261:US	49115690	R3GO14YIOE6O3	0151004498	30962648	The Graveyard Game	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great concept, someone is destroying the immortals	The 'Company' controls time, sending its immortal agents to capture and 'save' lost plants, books, artwork, and whatever else might have value in the future. Yet all of the company's power seems unable to prevent the spread of plagues that decimate the world's population and earthquakes that destroy much of the rest of the world. Or is it, perhaps, that the company is behind this destruction and lying even to its own agents?<br />Two immortals, Lewis and Joseph, share an obsession with a strangely vanished immortal, Mendoza. Immortals are not supposed to disappear--they are, after all, immortal and Joseph and Lewis have all the time in the world to find her. As they investigate, they discover that more and more of the immortals have vanished, are vanishing as the world counts down to the year when all future communications ends.<br />Just by looking, Lewis and Joseph create powerful enemies, yet they seem compelled to continue, to take risks that their thousands of years of life must tell them are dangerous. Their obsession continues to tug them on, however.<br />Kage Baker does a wonderful job describing a future that is bleak largely because of people trying to do good--and an organization of incredible power but riddled with factions seeking their own, conflicting, goals. The concept drives the novel even when some of the individual characters are not fully motivated.<br />I found THE GRAVEYARD GAME to be both page-turning and thought provoking--a powerful combination.	2001-03-13
2071537:US	49115690	R3KNZRQSV8OT2R	0312206046	107700095	The Heat of Lies	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Fast-moving, compelling, but under-motivated	A murder case detective Julian Palmer is working on so closely reminds her of her own father's unsolved murder that she cannot put the case to rest. Lacking any other path, Julian decides to bring in Winston Edwards--a cop turned bad who beat a murder rap and once tried to kill Julian.<br />Edwards forces Julian to re-visit the murder and gradually reveals new insights into the victim, the killer, and Julian's own life and mysteries.<br />I found Jonathan Stone's style highly approachable. The novel read fast (295 pages of widely spaced type) and both Julian and especially Edwards were interesting characters. Where the novel fell short was in motivation. Although the unsolved mystery could have been enough to lead a detective to bring in an expert (even a rogue cop), Stone did not make the reader feel Julian's emotions enough to make this believable. Although Edwards was a terribly interesting character, his actions did not seem internally consistent or driving toward a comprehensible goal.<br />I found THE HEAT OF LIES to be enjoyable but also think that Stone could have made it more enjoyable. The defects are not fundamental to the story--but perhaps to his wish to confuse the reader at the price, unfortunately, of confusing his characters and their motivations.	2001-03-12
2072496:US	49115690	R2Q6LVMX61C9E4	0312873689	965046096	Night of Madness	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well written, fun, with charming characters	Lord Hanner is a minor functionary until the night of madness. Suddenly, a new branch of magic attaches itself to thousands of citizens--including Hanner and his powerful uncle. Caught up in the joy and power of their new magic, many warlocks loot stores, create havoc, or use their power to exact revenge for past wrongs. The ordinary people, lords, and existing orders of magic are all threatened--and in turn threaten the warlocks.<br />Hanner gathers a small group of warlocks and tries to find a way out of the mess. He certainly doesn't want to accept exile or execution, but neither does he believe that the warlocks can or should use their power to control the government. The old rules of separation are still valid, but will the older magicians accept the new warlocks or will magic battle magic.<br />Watt-Evans has written a fascinating novel. Hanner, in particular, is an intriguing and likable character. His tendency toward pudgyness and his problems with the opposite sex make him more sympathetic and Watt-Evans builds on this nicely.<br />About the only flaw I could find in this book was in its characters' strange reluctance to pursue the question of what caused the outbreak of the warlock magic visitation and what caused so many warlocks to fly away from everything they knew into the mysterious north. I can't imagine characters such as Watt-Evans described not wanting to find the answers to these questions, yet they didn't--or at least they didn't try very hard.<br />With this one quibble aside, NIGHT OF MADNESS was an enjoyable romp of a novel--funny, but with enough social heft to give the reader something to think about.	2001-03-12
2078320:US	49115690	R37FVZKK68QCIO	0312268920	282668517	Poor Tom Is Cold	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Police procedural in Victorian Canada	Police Constable Wicken is dead--an apparent suicide. Still, Acting Detective Murdoch feels that things don't fit. Who was the woman who so conveniently testified about Wicken's broken heart? And what possible connection could Wicken's death have with the nearby home--a home where Peg Eakin has apparently taken leave of her senses in a paranoid fit?<br />Two things make POOR TOM IS DEAD stand out from the crowd. Murdoch and the fine turn of the (previous) century detail. Murdoch is a human character, fully rendered. His toothache is a nice detail, his frustrated love for his neighbor adds both human interest and historical detail about the then-current chasm between religion and class. Author Maureen Jennings has obviously researched her history--the details of police procedure, treatment of the insane, and class/race distinctions ring true. Better, she integrates these details into her novel so subtly that I didn't feel lectured to.	2001-03-07
2079887:US	49115690	RDAREUPH1THZ	039305019X	378067872	The Detective is Dead: A Harpur & Iles Mystery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Thin Line between cop and criminal--excellent	In THE DETECTIVE IS DEAD, Bill James writes again of the thinline between cop and criminal. When a judge lets two killers walkfree, Ives decides the police need to take matters into his ownhands. The results aren't pretty although they are occasionallyhysterically funny and always disturbing.<br />Mark Lane, the chief, isnoble, believes in doing right, and is a figure of fun for his deputyIves. The criminals believe Ives is dirty--that he is making moneyfrom the very drug lords they are seeking to become--and the reader isnever quite sure if they are right. Harpur is more practical,interested in solving crimes and locking up criminals but lackingeither Lane's nobility or Ives' brutal thrust.<br />This is policeprocedural with a twist. There is never any doubt about thecriminal--there are plenty of those and much of the story is told fromtheir point of view. Some of them will succeed in their dreams ofbecoming the next drug lord, others will fall. Ives knows he can'tarrest them all and so, by default, becomes something of akingmaker. Watching him work, interact with Lane, Harpur, and thecriminals, makes the novel fascinating.<br />Each of the Harpur and Ivesmysteries can be read independently without losing much although theydo form a continuous and enjoyable series.	2001-03-05
2089560:US	49115690	RK5DAQUEBHSCE	0380977222	978479923	Grandmother Spider: A Charlie Moon Mystery (Charlie Moon Mysteries)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Engaging characters, window to tribal politics	Something strange has happened but Acting Chief Charlie Moon doesn't believe Grandmother Spider really has climbed out from her caves under the lake to rip a man's head off and sink her fangs into his body. It's just that the evidence seems to point that way.<br />GRANDMOTHER SPIDER provides a view of Native American reservation politics and a number of truly engaging characters, especially Charlie Moon. Moon won't play the political games but would certainly like to be made permanent chief. His knack for justice goes beyond the book--he'll do what he thinks is right. Of course, this may also get him in trouble.<br />Author James D. Doss writes with a light style and I found myself laughing out loud over the dialogue. GRANDMOTHER SPIDER is definitely a little over the top in a number of ways. Is it just me, or was the whole comando thing just a little much?<br />I sat down to read for a few minutes and didn't stop until I'd finished the book.	2001-02-25
2099447:US	49115690	R1SZ8DOG38FA31	0385495781	2920897	Insatiable	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Glitz and murder in the artistic set	Nigel Weatherby-Smythe serves as butler to Jacqueline du Fidelio, a famous portrait artist with a habit of spending even more than she makes. Jacqueline is in trouble with the IRS who ask her to do some spying for them--and lands both herself and Nigel in trouble.<br />INSATIABLE takes the reader into the glitz world of the rich and famous. Skiing in Aspen, yachting across the Atlantic, trecking in Nepal, and eating succi in New York art galleries. Seen from Nigel's point of view, the world is a strange place that centers around him and 'Madam.' His goal is to line Jacqueline up with a man rich enough to take care of their financial disasters, yet each man Jacqueline finds is even more of a disaster.<br />Nigel and Jacqueline walk through a world of intrigue, art theft, and murder yet Nigel continues to believe everything centers around himself.<br />Nigel is an interesting character. Jacqueline is certainly intriguing although somewhat distanced by Nigel's myopic worldview. All of the other characters are basically caricatures with simple cause and effect motivations.<br />INSATIABLE is an enjoyable enough novel but lacks the punch to make it great.	2001-02-17
2104906:US	49115690	RQT0MEPLVYPQD	0671319612	370547305	Against The Odds (Serrano Legacy)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Characters and Action make this work	Elizabeth Moon's strengths are characters and action. In Against the Odds, she brings both together and gives us a nice adventure. Certainly she has brought her characters a long way over the course of this series.<br />Occasionally, I found the speechifying of several of the characters to slow the narative. Although fully in context, I think we could have done with a little less of this. Also, while it seems to be the style these days to jump around amongst widely spread characters, narative threads, and physical location, I think Moon detracts from, rather than increases, the story's momemtum by relying on this device so much.<br />Moon is a compelling writer and AGAINST THE ODDS is certainly worth the reading. Given the chance, it should be read after CHANGE OF COMMAND although it can certainly stand on its own.	2001-02-13
2112792:US	49115690	RJJOI2KCE20NY	0312872178	126157448	Jupiter	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Speculative SF from a master	Grant Archer is the prototypical reluctant hero. All he wants is to work out his public service obligation on the moon, writing his dissertation on harmless (to the ruling religious parties) astronomy. Instead, the draft board sends him to Jupiter to spy on the scientific base there.<br />Grant is torn between his identity as a man of faith, and that as a scientist. Still, something is going on in orbit around Jupiter and he finds himself involved.<br />Ben Bova is a longtime master of SF, and JUPITER is certainly a credible addition to the collection. In some ways, Grant is a throwback to the SF of the fifties and sixties (teen is thrown into adventure and saves the universe), but Bova adds science, political speculation, and a bit of a mystery to round out the novel. Positioning Grant as a man of both faith and science adds a dimension to the character missing in more pot-boiler SF.	2001-02-06
2116412:US	49115690	R2KJ291ENA8N04	0385493401	371386161	Cold and Pure and Very Dead: A Karen Pelletier Mystery	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good mystery, great characters	College Professor Karen Pelletier sets off a whirlwind when she nominates Obsession Falls, a 1950s sex novel, as book of the century. Before the excitement dies, a reporter tracking down the author is killed and the author accused. Karen doesn't believe the evidence and investigates. Could the mostly forgotten (until Karen reminds the world of its existance) semi-autobiographical novel bare secrets someone didn't want exposed?<br />Author Joanne Dobson does an excellent job describing Karen's working environment: the strange relationship between faculty and departmental secretary, and the infighting and semi-friendships amongst professors jealous of one another's success. More importantly, she gives Karen a history--broken loves, a family to whom she cannot go back, a daughter now grown and moving out on her own, and all of the little fears that make a person fully human. Once she makes us love Karen, Dobson throws her into danger. How can we help our response? (Answer, we can't--just sit back and enjoy it).<br />You may guess the killer fairly early but you'll want to stay with the novel to make sure Karen survives and to see how she uncovers the truth.<br />Highly recommended.	2001-02-03
2130313:US	49115690	R98AOCDYKWV94	0425172333	565146699	Murder at Manassas (Harrison Raines Civil War Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	3	19	19	N	N	Wonderful Historical detail--average mystery	In an effort to curry favor with Caitlin (his love but not, alas, his lover) Harrison Raines joins the throngs of Washington D.C. residents who plan to see the rebellion broken and the Union restored. The (First) Battle of Bull Run/Manassas turns out differently, however. In the retreat, a Union Major is killed--well out of range from Rebel forces. Raines is called on to solve the mystery, keep his lady's favor by protecting her friends, and keep himself from being arrested as a spy.<br />The historical details in MURDER AT MANASSAS are both convincing and well integrated into the novel. As a former Washington resident, it is enjoyable to read about the city as it was then, and compare it to what it is now (in many ways it hasn't changed a great deal).<br />Where the novel fell short was in the mystery and in the characters themselves. Other than Raines, I did not feel that any of the characters were fully developed. Instead, they were caricatures playing a role and then vanishing. Raines' obsession with Caitlin was not especially sympathetic, reducing the readers understanding of Raines' motivations.<br />After a lengthy and exciting set of investigations, Michael Kilian wraps up the mystery rather abruptly and, to my mind, unsatisfactorally. That said, overall, I enjoyed this book and would strongly recommend it to mystery fans with an interest in the American Civil War or in Washington D.C.	2001-01-23
2135642:US	49115690	R1RFBUGQBW8L6V	068816563X	722815389	Red Angel (Paul Devlin)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Voodoo and intrigue in Cuba and New York	Police Detective Paul Devlin goes with his girlfriend to Cuba when her Aunt was involved in an auto 'accident.' When they arrive, they discover that the Aunt was actually a government leader and that her body has been stolen, almost certainly to play a role in Voodoo rites. Bringing in the annoying Ollie Pitts (Devlin's sidekick), they investigate.<br />In Cuba, they are assisted by police Major Martinez--who seems to be more helpful than they can explain and may just be pursuing his own agenda--and have to battle Cuban Voodoo cultists, the Secret Police, and the Mafia which is attempting to re-create its old dominance of the Cuban economy.<br />Heffernan writes a fast-paced story with enough plot twists to keep the pages turning. His characters and dialogue, unfortunately, are not up to the same standard and occasionally might even be termed clunky. Still, the book is a good solid read.	2001-01-18
2136243:US	49115690	R1QYDE84PF3R5S	0312241178	559940155	Jester Leaps In: A Medieval Mystery (Fools' Guild Mysteries)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Can the Jester's Guild stop a terrible crime?	In JESTER LEAPS IN, Alan Gordon posits a medieval Jester's Guild responsible for bringing some sort of sanity to a world in trouble. Now a Crusade, dominated by Venice, is under weigh and all of the Jesters in Constantinople have vanished. Trouble-shooting fool Theophilos, along with his beautiful new wife (and Duchess and apprentice Jester) Viola are sent to find out what has happened and what it means.<br />What has happened is murder. Someone has killed all of the Jesters in Constantinople in an attempt to hide a plot to kill the Emperor. Theophilos has to find out who, why, and then decide if the world would be better off with a new Emperor.<br />Gordon does a wonderful job describing Medieval Europe and the role played by the Byzantine Empire at this time. The concept of a Jesters' Guild is wonderful and just believable enough to make the plot more enjoyable. Better is Gordon's character development. Both Theophilos and Viola are fully characterized, likable, and motivated. They may be fools, but they're no dummies and they're a joy to see in action...	2001-01-18
2140958:US	49115690	REVU5O7BW9JHN	0312855451	376319675	The Last Hot Time	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A nearby world--very nice reading	The world has changed with the re-convergence between human andelf dimensions. Magic works, but there is a halfway land between humanand elf--a land that compells many to it. One young man, Danny Holman,leaves his Iowa farm yielding to the call of magic and heads forChicago--one of the border lands. He becomes Doc Hallownight, caughtup in a gang war.<br />John M. Ford depicts this world of magic as a sortof 1930s gang warfare. Instead of alcohol, elf-blood is the outlawedand sought after commodity. But the greatest drug for both humans andelves is power.<br />That said, this novel is not about plot. While thereis enough action to hang a story around, the depiction of the newworld, Hallownight's interaction with its citizens, and his coming ofage are the real story.<br />A very nice read that will stick with youafter you've finished...	2001-01-14
2141341:US	49115690	RJE8SDR6RFLW2	0380977729	276042014	Sugarplum Dead (Death on Demand Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Light, enjoyable mystery	Just when you thought mysteries were becoming dark novels filled with anti-heros comes a book like SUGARPLUM DEAD. Annie Darling discovers a long-lost father and step-sister just as her mother-in-law has wigged out on trying to contact the dead. Annie, along with her husband Max, has got to find a way to bring things together. Max faces the added challenge of getting Annie to even talk to her father (after all, he did abandon her years before).<br />Annie's new family includes a famous ex-movie star who is also talking to the dead and threatening to give away the family fortune to a spiritual medium. If looks could kill, Marguueritte Dumaney would lie dead and before long, murder strikes. Both Annie's father and sister are suspects and Annie has to spring into action to solve the crime and protect her new family.<br />Although the mystery itself is not especially complex or difficult to guess, Carolyn Hart has created a finely crafted story. Max, Annie, and Laurel (Max's mother) are fully developed characters that you'll end up rooting for. Definitely an enjoyable read...	2001-01-13
2143755:US	49115690	RKUAI8LX6VX74	0895262460	14756320	Lestrade and the Sign of Nine (The Lestrade Mystery Series) (Volume 12)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Funny, but use of 'N' word offensive	Inspector Lestrade, along with his Sergeant George George must track down a killer who bludgens his victims all over England and Wales, selects only bad people, and is described in a number of ways. Sherlock Holmes and Watson get in the way with Watson being every bit the incompetent Doyle made him out, but with Holmes being cruel in his own supposed intelligence.<br />This is a very funny book. Full of puns, cockney-accented discussions of the meaning of the dialectic and the coming revolution, police incompetence, and British bungling, it will make you laugh out loud. The final sequence, involving a number of police in black-face and frequent use of the 'N' word was intended to be funny. I found it offensive and dropped my rating as a result.	2001-01-11
2144475:US	49115690	R3SZC4H7B0QWET	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A real feel for battle	Steven Pressfield gives the reader a true feel for the Spartan hoplite phalanx--and for war as a whole. Using the backdrop of the battle of Thermopylae where 300 Spartan elite troops, along with allies and auxiliaries, held off two million (according to legend) Persians and their allies for days, Pressfield describes both the details of Spartan tactics, and the philosophy of fear.<br />Although the battle of Thermopylae is inherently interesting, it is Pressfield's analysis of man that makes GATES OF FIRE especially powerful. The different characters in this novel portray varying aspects of the ideal. Polynikes, for example, is heroic almost to a comic-hero level. Dienekes, in contrast, is philosophical--heroic because it is the right thing to do rather than to search after glory.<br />This novel is an exceptional effort by a talented author.	2001-01-11
2148123:US	49115690	RIOGV4UWOA8RE	0060198338	588826635	Hit List	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Beautiful writing--interesting but damaged character	Keller is a hit man--he doesn't see anything especially wrong with his job although he prefers not to know about his victim's families--it's just how he pays the rent and keeps up his stamp collection. Now, though, something funny is happening. Several of his victims are killed before Keller gets to them. A new girlfriend accuses him of having 'murderer's thumb,' and an astrologer forecasts difficult times ahead.<br />Lawrence Block is a wonderfully talented writer who manages to make such an inherently unsympathetic character interesting and even sympathetic. Unlike some of the other reviewers, I didn't mind Keller's banter and the jury scene. In fact, I think this is part of Block's trick to make us understand how Keller sees himself--just a guy doing a job.  I do agree that the conclusion is just a little knocked off. I would have liked to see a little more cleverness in setting the trap for the killer after Keller. Still, I enjoyed this book a lot.	2001-01-08
2148856:US	49115690	RVJYVOM3U9N1L	0373271166	863070773	Strangers When We Married (A Year Of Loving Dangerously)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Carla Cassidy Winner	Carla Cassidy writes a fast-paced romantic suspense. STRANGERS WHEN WE MARRIED is a sexy sizzling read. Seth Greene is a sympathetic hero--part tough secret agent and part gushy dad. Meghan is very much his soul-mate, except their greatest fears keep them apart.<br />Years before, the two wed, the divorced. Now they are forced to spend time together when Seth can only trust Meghan to help him uncover the evil Simon. They feel both lust rekindled and a new love for one another, but can they overcome the terrible fears that drove them apart?<br />Cassidy can be counted on to tell a good story and this one is a winner.	2001-01-08
2151145:US	49115690	R38WUJEEM1ITVI	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gritty and wonderful police mystery	Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska shouldn't have much trouble with this case--an obvious suicide. As police homocide detectives, they have plenty of real work to get done and the entire department urges them to finish their nominal investigation and move on. Only something doesn't smell right. Even though murder is hardly ever done by hanging, and even though there is no evidence of a struggle, Kovac and Liska continue investigating.<br />Tami Hoag has created a truly powerful novel. Kovac and Liska come alive as characters as they look into the case and turn up (biased) cops, and an long-ago police hero who isn't quite what he seems. The police scenes feel authentic and Hoag's dialogue is crisp and distinctive...	2001-01-05
2154332:US	49115690	R3K9CM3NKKUS72	0671786458	118811339	Paradise County	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Sexy Romantic Suspense with an evil villain	Karen Robards is one of the leading writers in Romantic Suspense and in PARADISE COUNTY, she has done it again.<br />Alex Haywood is recovering from her father's death (an apparent suicide) and the discovery that his fortune is gone. She has to fire Joe Welch, manager of the family horse ranch, except Joe refuses to stay fired. Joe wants to protect his family and grow his share of the ranch. Falling for a rich girl who is bound to leave (like his ex-wife did) is not on his list. Especially if she has a sister like Neely who falls for one of Joe's sons. Fortunately for the story, Joe's hormones, and Alex's, don't listen to their rational sides.<br />All is not well in Paradise County, however. A truly evil villain (he is so bad he not only rapes and murders women, he also sets dogs on fire) is intrigued by Alex and Neely. Noone, not even Alex herself, can believe the increasing evidence that she is being watched--stalked.<br />PARADISE COUNTY is steamy-sexy, with a believable attraction between Joe and Alex. Unlike most romantic suspense novels, this one ends the romantic conflict before the suspense--but the suspense ends in an epic struggle between good and evil. Robards penetrates deep into the mind of the 'predator' creating a far more frightening character than would have been possible if she had not. Be careful, though. The predator is not for the faint hearted.	2001-01-03
2158644:US	49115690	RDI5578Z28XU5	039305005X	628286938	In Good Hands: A Harpur & Iles Mystery	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Compelling, Cynical	In IN GOOD HANDS, Bill James describes a British police department torn between a chief who wants to follow the law, and his second in command who wants to enforce justice. When Assistant Chief Constable Iles is rumored to have killed two drug dealers (who were ruled not guilty in a police killing), Chief Lane wants him gone--and asks Harpur to help.<br />James writes with a good ear for language and you'll find yourself laughing out loud at some of the dialogue, situations and descriptions. Still, the novel is disturbing. The police who seek justice are far more sympathetically portrayed than the busy-bodies who want to enforce the law. Still, in both their conflicts and their sins, the police and criminals are portrayed as quite similar.<br />IN GOOD HANDS combines a police investigation with a caper story. Stan Stanfield is preparing a heist--and needs to know whether Iles is behind a copycat murder, or whether it is his victim. He decides it is Iles and goes forward with his crime.<br />The police investigation sweeps Stanfield into its reach, but doesn't stop his work. Rather, the police use Stanfield and everyone else for their own objectives.<br />The novel is compelling, cynical, humorous, and highly disturbing. Certainly it is not the teddy-bear view of British police that many novels present. It may stick with you a lot longer as a result.	2000-12-31
2159621:US	49115690	R2Z7XCGEKXDSNY	0312872143	136531715	When The King Comes Home	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Not a bad book	but not a great one either.<br />Set in a mythical renaissance kingdom in Central Europe, WHEN THE KING COMES home tells the story of Hail Rosmer, art student with a fascination for a long-dead artist/alchemist. When the alchemist's seal is used to return long-vanished King Julian, Hail is drafted to protect the kingdom from the necromancer.<br />It's an interesting premise and Stevermer's world is interesting enough as well. I found it hard to get into the characters, however. Hail's fascination for Maspero drives the novel, but isn't really explained. Partly because the story is told from Hail's first person point of view, the other characters blend in together without strong differentiation.<br />WHEN THE KING COMES HOME is a pleasant read--but it has hints that it could be so much more.	2000-12-30
2163693:US	49115690	RH1OYD2LDEXT3	031287197X	919766677	Ventus	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Possibly the SF book of the year	Ventus could be heaven--every drop of water, grain of sand, flake of snow is created and shaped by the nanotechnology that has teraformed the planet and made it earthlike. Yet the self-replicating and fractally self-aware nanos that make up this world view humans with suspicion and bare tolerance. They may have been created to serve humans, but they have left this behind them.<br />Into this world comes Armiger, once a part of a God (a self-programmed artificial intelligence with superhuman powers and knowledge). If he can subvert the nanotechnology to his own ends, Ventus can become a power base stronger than anything known in the Universe.<br />Against Armiger stand a pair of off-planet near-humans who defeated the God he served before, and Jordon Mason, a local implanted with a portion of Armiger now turned to be a tool against him. All of their off-world powers offer little help, though, in a world where anything external is treated as a disease and eliminated.<br />Karl Schroeder makes this intriguing concept a powerful reality. Both characters and philosophical arguments are fully developed and convincing. The growth of Jordon, as he discovers that easy answers don't answer, the humanization of Armiger against his will, and the parallel changes in Calandria May (the off-worlder who seeks Armiger's destruction) are all sympathetic and believable.<br />Ventus is the best SF novel I've read this year.	2000-12-27
2165483:US	49115690	R1GYNU6HMD1KDU	0312872291	798059063	The King's Peace (The King's Peace, Book 1)	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Good first novel	Jo Walton brings fantasy to a retelling of the King Arthur legend. In her version, the gods are very real and present. The White God (the counterpart to the God of the Christians) claims to rule over all, but the other gods resist.<br />Jarnish raiders (counterpart to the Saxons and Angles who invaded post-Roman Britain) continue to attack AlTanagiri (Britain) and catch 17-year old Sulien ap Gwien and rape her. She vows revenge, then joins with Urdo (Arthur) and his horsemen (and women). Urdo is trying to carve out a true peace where the Jarns can live in peace with the traditional inhabitants, subject to a common set of laws and with respect to all the gods. He is, of course, opposed by both Jarns and many of his own people who see his acceptance of the invaders as betrayal.<br />Jo Walton chooses to present this story as a retrospective from an aging Sulien--a technique that cannot help but distance the reader. Too, she occasionally slips into a fairly ponderous version of English, possibly to represent the mythical nature of her story. Walton's story, with its mythical power and its appeal to very real emotions, overcomes these devices to speak to the reader.<br />This is a highly credible first novel. I look forward to future works by Walton.	2000-12-25
2171106:US	49115690	R32VRI38UKFZ5Y	0802733425	770501519	Little Miss Evil: A Nick Hoffman Mystery	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wonderful realistic view of academics	There is trouble in the State University of Michigan EAR (English, American Studies, and Rhetoric) department and Nick Hoffman, a non-tenured professor who always seems to find himself surrounded by murder, is in the middle of it. Someone is stalking him, everyone is upset about a new endowed chair, and murder is once again in the air.<br />Using a professor who teaches a class in mystery allows Lev Raphael (the author) to have Nick name-drop all of the latest mystery authors, along with Virginia Wolfe, Edith Warton, Dark Passages, and Titanic with equal humor. I found myself laughing out loud when Nick (after spending too long on Janet Evanovich) wondered if he should simplify his diet (his partner, Stephan set him straight--Stephanie Plum is no role model).<br />The academic setting is brutally realistic. Unlike business, the University really is a zero sum game and professors play to win--not that there is much joy even in the winning. Still, Nick keeps his sense of humor and deepens his relationships with Stephan, his cousin Sharon, and the strangely attractive Professor Juno Dromgoole (is there a certain Dickensian quality to Raphael's naming?).	2000-12-19
2179736:US	49115690	RBRSY2PD5YV0M	0380973359	797159023	Wheel of the Infinite	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Great World-Building, interesting protagonist	In WHEEL OF THE INFINITE, Martha Wells has created a fascinating world and belief structure. Each year, the priests and 'voices' must create a microcosm of the world. The connection between the 'wheel' and the world is causal. If they are unable to recreate the world, chaos may result. Maskelle, voice of the Adversary, has lost faith in herself at the same time as the wheel is threatened by a powerful over-writing. Unless Maskelle can overcome her doubts, the world may be destroyed.<br />Maskelle is an intriguing protagonist. Her doubts are understandable as she killed her husband in response to a false prophecy. For the most part, however, the other characters lack the dimensions shown by Maskelle. The motivation of Maskelle's love interest, in particular, is unclear.<br />Still, Wells' writing moves the story along with a good mix of adventure, magic, and a world you'll want to return to. ....	2000-12-11
2182630:US	49115690	R1TOX8GMJEJAQJ	0312209282	12186643	Last Seen in Massilia:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great mix of mystery and history	In the midst of the Roman civil war between Caesar and Pompey, Gordianus the Finder, sometimes detective for Cicero, wants to find the truth about his son, Meto. Did he really die in Massilia (now Marseilles), and if so, who killed him. As Meto was working as a double-agent for Caesar, there are plenty of suspects.<br />Accompanied by his son-in-law, Davus, Gordianus manages to sneak into besieged Massilia through a tunnel. Once there, he finds political bickering, more information of his son's death, and sees a strange murder or suicide (he can't tell which) from the rock from which sacrifices are made. Befriended only by Hieronymus, the city's scapegoat, Gordianus wades through a swamp of lies to find the truth--no matter what the cost.<br />Saylor makes Roman history come alive. His characters, both historical and fictional, ring true both as historical Romans, Greeks, and Gauls, but especially as humans--for all their flaws. For readers who enjoy both history and mystery, this is a must-read.	2000-12-09
2182889:US	49115690	R22V1PTYN3H0FU	0380978172	911631878	The Sugar House: A Tess Monaghan Mystery	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Blue collar heroine in a wonderful mystery	Tess Monaghan is a blue collar woman in Baltimore, the ultimate blue collar city. She agrees to take a case for a friend of her father's--trying to find out why the friend's brother died in prison. Her investigation leads her into both the upper reaches of society and down to a strange underworld of prostitution, unethical centers for treatment of eating disorders, and crooked politicians.<br />Laura Lippman has surrounded Tess with a charming assortment of friends and family members. Their obvious affection for Tess makes her more compelling to the reader. As Tess steps more and more deeply into danger, you'll find yourself turning the pages faster and faster. The mystery is well crafted and Lippman dangles clues, one by one, leaving the reader like Tess certain that there is a way of connecting them without actually able to do it.<br />This book is especially popular in Maryland which is great--as a longtime resident of Maryland I felt at home reading it--but it is far to good to be missed out on by the rest of us.<br />THE SUGAR HOUSE may be the best mystery you read this year.	2000-12-08
2183531:US	49115690	RGVF1SOC3E2N4	037316856X	139857816	Twin Expectations	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sexy and Funny--identical twins want babies-create confusion	Bridget and Liz Van Zandt feel their biological clocks tickingand both intend to do something about it. While neither has a husbandin sight or in mind, modern technology and modern morality should takecare of that problem, shouldn't it?<br />Using the device of a beautifulpair of identical twins, Kara Lennox has given us a fun and sexy rompof a story.  Mistaken identities abound, and sexy half-brothers NickRaines and Eric Statler don't have a clue what is hitting them (or,half the time, who is doing the hitting).<br />By the time the brotherssort things out, the reader has enjoyed two charming romances for theprice of one.  Bridget and Liz both get the babies they want, but boydo they end up with a lot more.<br />This is Kara Lennox's second bookwith Harlequin American and it is a complete winner.	2000-12-08
2183572:US	49115690	RFORD2PNSYIQT	0345392450	487025803	The Feline Wizard (A Wizard in Rhyme)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Balkis gets her own story	Christopher Stasheff has evidently recognized that Matthew Mantrell (Matt) is getting stale and has launched Balkis, the princess girl/cat as the major protagonist in this Wizard in Rhyme fantasy.<br />Kidnapped by servants of an evil goddess, Balkis turns cat, finds the boy of her dreams, and sets off to find her way home. On the way back, Balkis and Anthony (the boy) see a veritable Gulliver's Travels assortment of strange people, creatures, and places out of medieval myth. The device of having Balkis unable to finish a rhyme and Anthony unable to start one (he was the youngest brother and never allowed to go first) is both amusing and a chance for the two characters to work together.<br />Meanwhile, Matt rides Stegoman the dragon to the rescue (not that Balkis needs much rescuing). Stegoman finally gets his chance for a little dragon-girl action.<br />Stasheff always writes an entertaining adventure. Although not as strong as the initial three books in this series (all of which were wonderful), THE FELINE WIZARD is certainly entertaining. If Stasheff continues this series, he may wish to revive some of the early concepts, such as the land's power over its people. These were what elevated the initial novels.<br />It's an enjoyable read.	2000-12-08
2187253:US	49115690	R1ZXDXTJVT7440	1880448777	617162259	The World Menders	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent--fascinating view of culture a classic SF winner	Cedd Farrari is swept up in a draft of Cultural Survey experts and sent off to Branoff IV--a remote planet famous mostly for its aristocratic culture. Since Farrari and his team are supposed to bring about democracy, the legendary mistreatment of the indigenous people seems rife with possibilities. But is it?<br />Lloyd Biggle is one of the classic authors of the 1960s and 1970s who moved beyond the standard hero conquers the world to view different cultures and civilizations with an open mind. While democracy is certainly the ideal, it must be imposed from within the context of the culture. By using a protagonist trained in Culture, Biggle is able to bring this sensitivity to the novel.<br />Of course there is plenty of adventure and Farrari gets into a lot of trouble as he is separated from the more experienced members of his team. Finally, his cultural training pays off--in a surprising way.<br />This is a companion piece to the also great SMALL THIN VOICE OF TRUMPETS.<br />I could not recommend this book more. It may be Biggle's greatest.	2000-12-05
2187873:US	49115690	R4421SEQ5WJEB	0892967064	913247504	A Smile on the Face of the Tiger (The Amos Walker Series #15)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gritty mystery--perfectly done	Private Detective Amos Walker soon learns there is more to his latest missing person case than a drunk who wandered away from home. Police lies and incompetence, Mob killers, and the damaged flotsam of an author's life form the rich history of missing author Eugene Booth.<br />Walker is the perfect tough detective--reminiscent of the 'hard-boiled dectectives' of the 1930s, Walker has to deal with his own morals in a world where Mafia killers sign million-dollar book deals and where a murder doesn't get investigated because the woman had questionable morals.<br />Loren D. Estleman has created a powerful mystery with all of the twists and turns you could possibly expect, and with an additional spark. A SMILE ON THE FACE OF THE TIGER makes you think, may give you an occasional smile, and will get your heart rate up.<br />I highly recommend this excellent novel.	2000-12-04
2192096:US	49115690	RFI71AL6BWVNK	0312873360	736479780	To the King a Daughter (Cycle of Oak, Yew, Ash, and Rowan, Book 1)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Intriguing world, Good Writing Great Potential, No Action	I love Andre Norton. When I discovered SF, it was Norton who turned me on. Her collaboration with Sasha Miller hasn't diminished her ability to string together a fascinating world. The land of Oak, Ash, Yew, and Rowan has the potential to be as interesting as Witch World.<br />In this initial book in the series, however, we are treated to Ashen who never really takes the novel into her own hands. Instead, she reacts. Reacts to Zazar, the witch-woman who raises her, to the Bog people among whom she is raised, and to the man who captures her. Prince Florian (Ashen's half-brother) is not much of a character either. All he is is greedy. Although the Sea Raiders are set up as good-guys, their cold-blooded attack on the bog people put me off.<br />I liked Queen Ysa. Alone among the characters in TO THE KING A DAUGHTER, she knows what she wants and sets about getting it. The fact that Ashen is in her way means little to her--and why should it? Ysa believes she is doing what is right for the kingdom and there is every evidence that she is right. At least she is making decisions and moving the book forward.<br />The writing and the setting are too compelling not to look forward to the next book in this series. Although I had troubles with the novel, I still found it hard to put it down. Just don't expect a WITCH WORLD.	2000-12-01
2195422:US	49115690	R19LKQKAU9GL0F	0345433157	548738377	The Wild Child (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Predictable but Compelling	I didn't want to like this book. The identical twins substituting for each other, woman thought insane but really still suffering from childhood trauma, the coincidence of Meriel's best friend from India being locked in the same asylum where Meriel is bound, and the predictable ending should have made it easy to put this one down--but I couldn't.<br />Putney is such a good writer that she can take these standard and overused plot devices and turn them into a truly compelling read. Even though you'll know exactly what comes next, you'll want to read it to see how Putney describes it and makes it real.<br />Although it falls somewhat short of the emotional intensity of its sequel, CHINA BRIDE, THE WILD CHILD is a superior romance.	2000-11-28
2198165:US	49115690	R2ARK4Y5E7J4YN	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What makes this book so good?	Storm of Swords is a great addition to this series. Martin risks driving his readers away by killing off central characters, but doing so is true to the story he's telling.<br />In Storm of Swords, the rebellion in the seven kingdoms is gradually winding down as the various kings die--some mysteriously and magically. North of the wall, both human and non-human enemies of all of the kingdoms are growing stronger while the kingdoms remain focussed only on their internal struggles. The Black Watch seems unlikely to hold the wall.<br />Martin continues his style of tracking a number of characters, giving each a chapter, then leaving them hanging. He introduces several new point-of-view characters including Jaime the Kingslayer, and returns several favorites.<br />Daenerys Targaryen, in particular, has matured nicely as a character. She now has personal motives beyond merely becoming queen because she is the last Targaryen, and is developing leadership skills and the ability to make hard decisions. The Stark children remain strangely underdeveloped given that they have been central characters throughout this series. Possibly they will be fully fleshed out in the fourth book in the series.<br />At 900+ pages, the book is daunting--but I still found it hard to put down and finished in two days.  I don't buy many books in hardback but this is a steal.	2000-11-26
2209475:US	49115690	R39LOU4D43SJED	0312867514	915491164	Prophecy: Child of Earth (Symphony of Ages, Book 2)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Even better than Rhapsody	Rhapsody is torn between loyalty to her friends and adoptive family and the emotions she feels toward Ashe--a man who just might be possessed by the demons that are trying to destroy the world. This is the very personal and emotional core that drives an exciting fantasy adventure forward. Because we care very deeply about Rhapsody--frankly, because Elizabeth Haydon makes us care about her--we cannot help making a profound emotional investment in the story and in Rhapsody's survival.<br />All of the major characters from RHAPSODY are back. With demons threatening destruction of her new world, Rhapsody cannot sit back and enjoy Achmed's new place as a king. Rather, she (along with Ashe) undertake the trek to one of the last dragon's lairs. There Rhapsody makes another friend (it is a talent) and is gifted with another challenge.<br />Fantasy fans will definitely enjoy this one.	2000-11-15
2213805:US	49115690	R994M4XWG1PY1	031225198X	591041935	The Armada Boy: A Wesley Peterson Crime Novel (Wesley Peterson Crime Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful characters and British description	Somebody has killed an aging American veteran and Wesley Peterson has to find out who--and why. Old animosities between the U.S. soldiers and the English people uprooted from their homes come into play, but a psychic claims that the Armada Boy--a survivor of the Spanish Armada is the one to ask.<br />Kate Ellis writes a fine mystery but what makes this book so compelling is her descriptions of the people and countryside of England. Wesley Peterson, with his pregnant wife suffering from hormone overload, Detective Inspecter Heffernam, with is love for sailing and his need to escape from people yet desire to bond with them, and Detective Constable Rachel Tracey with her ambition, all make sympathetic characters you'll root for as they struggle forward.<br />The mystery is sufficiently complex and interesting. Ellis's approach of weaving the three eras together proves effective and, ultimately, the fabric of the story proves to be woven together more closely than would at first appear. This is an excellent novel.	2000-11-11
2213819:US	49115690	R1MFTXE8AI0E4S	0312871961	254838749	Tangled Up in Blue	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Police Action on a wonderful world	Tangled up in Blue describes this fine novel to a 't'. The police are frustrated by the rules that prevent them from stamping out crime on Tiamet (home of Vinge's Snow Queen novel) and take the law into their own hands. Their vigilante justice backfires and the only survivor is injured and suspended from the police. Tree believes, however, that there is something more complex here than a raid-gone-bad. He's got to find the answer despite official warnings.<br />In this small (235 pages in the hardback version) there isn't time to develop a rich range of characters, but Tree and his Sergeant Gundhalinu have fully realized back stories that motivate and drive their actions. Forced to work together (sometimes), but unwilling to trust one another, both Tree and Gundhalinu begin to realize that the problems come from within the police department as much as from outside. All of the problems of Tiamet are 'tangled up in blue'.<br />The Snow Queen Arianrod is largely behind the screens, but she is intent on saving her culture from the summer barbarians no matter what the cost. The mysterious factions of the Survey too have left morals behind in their search for the greater good. Only Tree, Gundhalinu, and a few others must continue to wrestle with morality. Whether this strengthens or weakens them determines the outcome of this intriguing novel.	2000-11-11
2214351:US	49115690	R3E6SWDU5PDHNG	0892966890	72468624	Listen to the Silence (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tracing Native American heritage through lies	Private Detective Sharon McCone takes herself as a client when she learns she's adopted and determines to track down her birth family. She discovers a mystery that means danger even today, but finds lies everywhere--even from those whom she likes and seem to like her.<br />McCone's travels take her from San Francisco to Indian reservations in Montana, to remote areas of Northern California. Marcia Muller does a fabulous job describing the cultural divide between affluent America and the Native American culture McCone discovers is her birth heritage. Fortunately, Muller resists the urge to make Indians noble savages. Even they can lie.<br />Only when McCone learns to listen to the silence, the hesitations when her contacts refuse to go forward, can she plumb the real secrets of her birth and of the destruction that seems to follow her.<br />Excellent	2000-11-11
2214603:US	49115690	R7MGYO5GW04AA	0373168470	24849269	Open in Nine Months (Harlequin American Romance, No. 847)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Warm romance from Small town America	Leanna Wilson makes small-town America seem like paradise. While Wilson adopts many romance hooks (rodeo cowboy, single dad, secret baby, pregnant heroine), she makes them her own.<br />Joy Chase is pregnant after a one-night stand with Sam McCall. Now Sam has moved into town with his daughter. When he sees Joy and learns he is the father to be, he wants to make Joy and the new baby a part of the family he's always wanted but never had. The only problem is, he won't let himself love another woman. He's done that before and knows the price is too high.<br />When Joy turns him down (she's holding out for love), Sam set about convincing her. It isn't long before Joy is convinced she loves Sam, but that only makes things worse. She can raise a child on her own and will before she sacrifices herself to a loveless marriage.<br />Wilson is a fine addition to the Harlequin American line.	2000-11-11
2218828:US	49115690	R18WQSI3RDW601	0380813955	217050035	Wishin' on a Star	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good plot and Granada setting	Shelby Russau wants a family (her parents and older brother have died).  When handsome Raphael Blaize shows up and tells her she's an aunt, she follows him to Granada to discover the boy her brother left behind. She doesn't count on the attraction she feels for Blaize to turn into anything. Especially since he wants to live for the day and avoid commitment.<br />Blaize is trying to re-start the magical beliefs and rituals his parents followed, beliefs handed down from early African slaves. Shelby reacts like any American would, disbelieving in what matters most to him. Still, he needs her help on the ceremony that will cure their shared nephew of his sickle cell anemia.<br />Snoe does a great job creating romantic tension between Blaize and Shelby. Her descriptions of Granada and its culture ring true. The intrigue element of the plot, however, was quite underdeveloped.  At times, the writing is clunky enough to jar the reader from the novel.  Fortunately, the story line is strong enough to bring us back.	2000-11-07
2219475:US	49115690	RIJA8BX0KGTF7	0553103237	331407913	Ship of Destiny (Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Wonderful complex world and complex characters	Robin Hobb doesn't take the easy way out and give us all good or all evil characters. One of the most sympathetic characters breaks his promises, threatens the extinction of a sapient species (dragons) and commits rape.  Still, Hobb is dealing with real people and their very flaws make it easier for us to identify with them (don't worry, the rapist is punished).<br />The concept of the Liveship--self-aware ships made from the corpses of dragons is high fantasy and Hobb creates a world that is worthy of these great ships. This huge novel and series flies across multiple viewpoint characters and threads of the adventure, all pulling together in a creative whole.<br />I would have liked to see a little less of the plot device of the lovers who can't tell each other how they really feel. On the other hand, the plight of the serpents/dragons, in serious danger of extinction, may bring you to tears.	2000-11-06
2220043:US	49115690	R1CDO28WP6X2RR	0525945458	158155362	The Glass Factory (Filomena Buscarsela Mysteries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Socialist ex-cop against evil capitalists	Filomena Buscarsela is dying of lung cancer and determined to get the man who poisoned her. She moves to Long Island and discovers he is poisoning the entire environment, yet no one seems to care. When she digs more deeply, she is threatened--worse, her child is threatened.<br />k.j.a. Wishnia writes a fast-moving adventure and Filomena provides intriguing commentary on life in New York, her take on the Long Island suburbs, the dating scene, and the evils of capitalism. This last is the one hiccup in the works. Clearly toxic polluters are bad but do they have to represent an inditement of the entire capitalistic system? Also, I could have done with a little less literary criticism and gotten back to the action (which was really good).	2000-11-06
2224211:US	49115690	R2KMDV5XQAB3F3	0425056295	148968372	The Long Twilight	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Supermen with real humanity	For thousands of years, Grayle and Falconer have battled--and their superhuman struggle has turned into legend (they are also known as Thor and Loki). Now, human technology has enabled them to accomplish their mission--the destruction of Earth. Falconer knows he must go forward with the mission despite Grayle and despite the death of billions.<br />Laumer writes great superhumans, but he does an especially good job humanizing them. Through each character's interaction with ordinary humans, we learn to sympathize and empathize with them, to care about them as people. Written in 1969 at the height of Laumer's power, the novel employs that quick-paced style that made Laumer so popular with his Retief series, but in a far darker and more profound novel.<br />You'll want to read the entire novel in a sitting, then flip it and start over.  A great book.	2000-11-02
2226376:US	49115690	R2SD2J1GREXTQ1	0786707577	944744745	An English Murder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Decaying families and murder	When murder happens, reporter Alison wonders if it will rocket her to fame, but she does little more than wonder.  Indeed, it seems past the capability of anyone in this quirky and well written novel to act at all--except in sudden bursts of murder.<br />The murdered couple were part of a disfunctional family unable to cope with their child and the problems they faced. Alison's family was similarly disfunctional, with results that mirrored the murdered couple.<br />The back cover promises that AN ENGLISH MURDER is a different kind of murder. Indeed it is. The mystery becomes the smallest part of this investigation into a community made up of members each of which is so obsessed with their individual problems that they cannot raise their heads enough to see the larger troubles that surround them.  It is high praise indeed to say that Louise Doughty actually pulls it off.	2000-10-31
2227100:US	49115690	R55OT80OOIAG4	0345392469	748949892	The Crusading Wizard (Wizard in Rhyme, A)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Moving up to a larger stage	Book after book, Matt Mantrell (from our Earth) has been saving Merovence (France) from evil. Now, he has to save civilization from the mongol hordes.  He and his wife Queen Alisande lead the Frankish armies to join in a Crusade allied with the Arabs, against the Turks and Huns.<br />Unlike some of the WIZARD AT RHYME series, this does not go much into the Catholic way. It suffers, however, from Matt having too many friends, all powerful, and all willing to pitch in and help out. I'm a fan of Stasheff and think this is one of his better series but I agree with the authors who say that it's getting old. Introducing new characters (especially Saul way back in Book 3) helps (I'm not that big on Matt's parents--they sort of remind me of the left-over lovers in a Romance Novel sequel), but I think Stasheff will want to leave Matt alone and focus on other characters altogther if he doesn't want this to become just another hero wading through evil series.	2000-10-30
2228528:US	49115690	R29LV8DAZLIAKH	0399146156	336771622	House of Corrections: A Jack Flippo Mystery (Jack Flippo Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Dark side of Texas with a confused hero	Jack Flippo owes his mentor Wesley Joy and when Wesley asks for his help, Jack has to respond. Except Wesley is in jail and suspected of murder--and Jack isn't quite sure whether Wesley is really as innocent as he claims. Wesley claims his wife, Angelique, can provide an alibi, and Jack sets off to find her-- with a bit of self-interest in mind.<br />Jack's confusion only gets worse when he poisons himself on raw oysters. This food poisoning limits Jack for half the book and puts a bit of a damper on the entire novel. Throughout, Jack seems more driven by others than driving the story himself. The rain of murdered bodies that seem to crop up wherever Jack goes mystifies him, but never really drives him to wonder what is going on.<br />Doug Swanson is a good writer and moves the story forward. Despite Jack's anti-heroics, the reader will still want to find out what is going on and will find themselves, like Jack, wavering on who, if anyone, really is innocent.	2000-10-29
2230159:US	49115690	RK9RED48O8BFT	0151005672	306753329	The Telling	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Cultures clashing within and without--fascinating	Ursula K. LeGuin has created a simple and spare story of one woman, Sutty, sent as observer to a world where Science is intent on destroying all history in its march for the stars. On Sutty's Earth, fanatics attempted the same thing, for the same of religion rather than science.<br />Aka's old ways are based on Telling--repeating of old stories, poems, and life lessons. These, however, are being suppressed to the point where only one library remains--and Sutty will either preserve or destroy it.<br />For those of us who remember the Cultural Revolution or any of the other attempts by right thinkers to eliminate even the history of thoughts other than their own, The Telling is a calm reminder--a telling.<br />I think LeGuin has hit exactly the right tone and adopted the right style to tell this story. It is a very personal story, but like the stories of The Telling, it is a story that forms a microcosm to much that is real on every scale.	2000-10-28
2230574:US	49115690	R3V30QZ5O8JIK7	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Characters you'll love, a plot that moves...	This is one of the greatest Science Fiction books ever written. Most of the reviewers and I agree on that. I'd like to point out three areas that make this book special. 1.  Characters--Zelazny gives us a range of characters that we can love, sympathize with, and suffer with. Sam, of course. For me, though, Sugata--the assassin turned enlightened one was even more real and powerful. Yama the deathgod was, in many ways, the real hero. Ever-faithful Tak.  I could go on. The point is that each of these characters is fully developed and realized. This isn't a one dimensional book.<br />(2) the plot.  It's exciting yet complex. The use of flashbacks makes it hard to follow from time to time (you have to read this more than once), but it's big and it draws you in. You want Sam to win even when you know he can't.<br />(3) the religion--the intellectual and moral battle (as well as the physical and magical battles) between Hinduism and Budhism are so compelling that I researched both religions after reading this.<br />I just re-read LORD OF LIGHT (all right, I'm not sure what number it is any more) and it's every bit as powerful as it was when I first read it decades ago.  Zelazny's best--and that's saying a lot.	2000-10-27
2231548:US	49115690	RYY1SJEHBOP7M	0312242123	968750330	Leavin' Trunk Blues (Nick Travers)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Finding the Blues	In his job as Professor of Blues History, Nick Travers has learned enough to suspect that something is wrong with Blues legend Ruby Walker's conviction for murdering her lover. When Ruby invites him to visit her in prison, he grabs the chance. When she tells him she didn't commit the 50 year old murder, he vows to investigate.<br />The novel is set in the dark underside of Chicago. Where once Chicago was the city of hope for sharecroppers fleeing the South, now that hope has vanished. Is Stagger Lee really an urban legend, or did one man have so much to do with Black Chicago's self-destruction? If he does exist, how does he relate to Ruby. Although a bunch of old Blues artists living in the memories of their accomplishments fifty years ago hardly sounds dangerous, Travers finds himself threatened.<br />The novel reeks of the blues--both in its characters and in its themes. The slums of Chicago, the ruins of old Blues clubs, and the ruins of old Blues artists all form part of the tapestry in Atkin's novel. Although there are a few light moments, even these serve to reinforce the message of the blues.	2000-10-26
2233193:US	49115690	R1VW26O7E872ET	0688155189	971354633	The Chelsea Girl Murders: A Robin Hudson Mystery (Robin Hudson Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great characters, relationships.  A fun read	It is a mystery, but the characters, especially Robin Hudson, spend most of their time working on other problems. Robin, the protagonist, has her apartment burned, moves into the Chelsea Hotel where her friend Tamara has an apartment, and discovers one of the strangest groups of people in the world.  Tamara is out of the country through most of the book but her circle of friends are at the center of the weirdness. Tamara's revenge-seeking girlfriend and her underground railroad for lovers make for an interesting life for Robin--and a fun read for us.<br />This is not serious mystery, this is fun--seeing people in a slightly cynical 20's view, and experiencing the angst of trying to create a relationship in a world which seems set on making all relationships fail.<br />I'm not sure I solved the mystery before Robin did, but mostly because I lost track of the mystery and got involved with the characters.  Read it for fun and don't get hung up on the plot.	2000-10-25
2235818:US	49115690	R3UJMFEQEYNPBM	068486486X	32847958	The Mile High Club (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Deep look into a strange mind	As mysteries go, THE MILE HIGH CLUB was so-so.  Fortunately, this wasn't about being a mystery. Instead, it was a look into the mind of a man who confesses that he doesn't have much luck with women yet doesn't seem surprised when the beautiful woman seated next to him on a plane visits him for some wild times.  He is as concerned with getting a new kitty litter tray as he was with being visited by the State Department, the hacked off finger delivered to him, or the dead body on his toilet.<br />It's all tongue in cheek and a good time. While Friedman (the character) may not think much of women, remember--they don't think much of him either.	2000-10-23
2236741:US	49115690	R3GZJL4UWX5AB5	0671578871	327899805	Sentry Peak	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Better--but not good enough	Harry Turtledove can write a good story.  In the case of SENTRY PEAK, he has help from American History. Turtledove has transposed points of the compass, made the slaves blond serfs, and added magic to the western front of the U.S. Civil War.<br />Unlike some of Turtledove's alternate history novels, here he provides a good balance of characters--enough to add personal depth to the novel without so many that it confuses the reader.  The incompetent generals might have been a little too similar, but this may be historically valid so it isn't a fair criticism.<br />You'll have to judge for yourself whether you want to read history rewritten as fantasy. There certainly are some amusing puns in the place names and the names of the generals.  I think, however, that Turtledove should demand that his publishers make their editors earn their pay. There is way too much repetition, and we seem to go through the same meetings and conversations again and again.  Wack off a hundred pages and you'd have a better book.	2000-10-23
2236817:US	49115690	R2X54J6NQIK7CH	0061051802	769651317	Well of Darkness: Volume One of the Sovereign Stone Trilogy	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Not a typical game knockoff	I expect the worst when I read a novel based on a game system. Too often, we have heros hacking their way through dungeons and picking up gold. WELL OF DARKNESS delves into people (including non-human people), lets us sympathize both with those following good and those following evil, and integrates a complete look into the history of its world and its people without stepping out of the story line.	2000-10-23
2239325:US	49115690	R3JP30JAM0MLNS	044180697X	922341911	This immortal	Books	5	5	7	N	N	It grows on you	The back cover copy confused me so badly I had to go back and re-read the book as soon as I had finished it--it was a great investment. Conrad is a convincing hero--he is willing to sacrifice anything to save the Earth he believes in--including himself and just about everything else he values.  He'll even make a deal with the hated invaders--the Vegans--if it will help him. Not that Earth is any great shakes.  After the Vegan invasion and Conrad's nuclear terrorism, radioactivity, poverty, and mutation make this an early distopian vision.  Zelazny is an awesome writer.  Although his Amber novels are currently more popular, and although LORD OF LIGHT may have appealed more to the 1970s crowd, THIS IMMORTAL has to be ranked as one of his best, and as one of the best of Science Fiction from the 60s. It's hard to find but worth it.	2000-10-20
2244321:US	49115690	R2B1YY28KJMEBO	0671578758	536718183	Lt. Leary, Commanding	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Both characters and adventure--oh my	First off, this is highly reminiscent of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series--Leary is the girl-chasing overweight but likable hero and Adele is the intellectual spy/killer sidekick. So what?  Aubrey/Maturin is great and it's still great when Drake does it in Space Opera.<br />David Drake weaves together appealing (not always likable) characters and a plot that escalates from personal danger (lots of that) to threats to whole worlds.  The unspoken sexual tension between Leary and Adele adds to the reader appeal without being heavyhanded.<br />Maybe it's just me, but I enjoyed a space battle that didn't come down to the recently invented brilliant weapon which the other side didn't expect and did exactly the wrong thing.<br />Maybe it won't stick to you forever, but you won't put it down either.	2000-10-16
2244418:US	49115690	R3IZU4XQFB9HLK	0312252188	412473144	Dead Man's Bay	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A soulless killer and a man searching for his soul	Barrett Raines has hit bottom--his marriage is falling apart, he's drinking beer for breakfast, and he screws up his partner (the most unforgivable sin for a cop).  After months of desk duty in punishment, he's put on a case.<br />Sent to Dead Man's Bay, Barrett must confront prejudice from a small town sheriff (Barett is African American), and a community so closed-mouthed it won't admit to anything. When a cold-blooded killer arrives, Barrett must face into his own soul to determine what really would constitute justice.	2000-10-16
2244618:US	49115690	R1UPRIEXVNN3CJ	0385486103	582921363	Beacon Street Mourning: A Fremont Jones Mystery (Fremont Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great historical feel--fun heroine	Fremont Jones knows her stepmother is poisoning her father. The only thing is, no one believes he is being poisoned. If he were, sweet Augusta is the last person anyone would suspect. The doctors poo-poo Fremont, her father's bank partner questions her sanity, and even Michael, Fremont's lover, seems to fall under Augusta's sway.<br />Dianne Day manages to convey 1908 Boston (the novel starts in San Francisco and moves to Boston) in both physical but especially the social and emotional senses. Fremont is unconventional (being a private detective), yet still bound by conventions.  Day's style is a huge part of the book. Although there is certainly some complexity in the mystery, including whether there is a mystery at all, the chief joy in reading BEACON STREET MOURNING is in the reading itself.	2000-10-16
2248251:US	49115690	R2E70OFPWNMYT7	0446527017	276509900	Standoff	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Romance and Suspense	Sandra Brown is a great author and Standoff will draw you in.  Brown manages to integrate sexual tension with the suspense tension to increase the emotional impact.  I really liked the way she started fast and kept you hooked.<br />OK, maybe it wasn't perfect.  The coincidence of reporter Tiel (the heroine) ending up in a convenience store holdup with the runaway teens, a runaway ex-doctor turned cowboy whom she had covered when he was still a doctor in Dallas, a couple of very suspicious Mexican nationals, and a midwestern couple thrown in for comic relief is extreme, especially when the runaway girl's water breaks and the baby shows up just in time.<br />Virtually the entire novel took place at the convenience store but the narrow confines of the novel reinforce the trapped feeling that Tiel has--both trapped in the store and trapped in the life that isn't giving her what she really needs.<br />Occasionally it was a guilty pleasure but I had a hard time putting it down.	2000-10-13
2253191:US	49115690	R14USHX0MMEUJA	0312245521	628670735	Name Games: A Mark Manning Mystery (Mark Manning Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Character Development	Mark Manning, the gay publisher of a small-town Wisconsin newspaper, faces a murder investigation where the lead suspect is his friend.  Is he trusting his friend too much, or is something serious wrong with this all American mid-western town?<br />Michael Craft writes excellent characters, giving the reader Manning himself, Manning's relationships with lover, adoptive son, friends, and newspaper staff--as well as an assortment of suspects.  Each of the suspects is distinctive, each with their own motives.  As Manning digs deeper into the crime, a lot more than the initial 'small world of miniatures' comes apparent.  Lots of axes are being ground over pornography and Manning, as newspaper editor, cannot just stand by.	2000-10-09
2254915:US	49115690	R3H13ZQCQWY1NI	031224648X	872042332	The Hard Detective	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hard Justice	Harriet Martin is the hard detective--she is always sure she's right. In THE HARD DETECTIVE, she faces a criminal who is even harder and even more certain about justice.  The criminal is exacting the justice from Exodus--a life for a life, an eye for an eye, etc. on the police force of Birchester (England).  Somehow Harriet must track down the killer before the police department is decimated.  Yet can she do so and remain the Hard Detective?<br />H. R. F. Keating has written a book that will intrigue the reader both through its subject matter and through the interesting differences between police procedures in the U.S. and in Britain.  Harriet grows as a character, starting off harsh, yet becoming more human when faced with the logical consequences of her own belief structures.  Initially she finds the justice of 'an eye for an eye' appealing.	2000-10-08
2255619:US	49115690	R3VOIWXKDOPSVQ	1928746071	732676053	The Princess of Dhagabad (Spirits of the Ancient Sands)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Nice--more romance than adventure	The Princess receives a bottle containing a djin--Hasan--who obeys her every wish.  As she matures from child to young woman, she pursues knowledge, but knows that she must some day marry someone else.  Hasan is a slave who cannot be freed.<br />Anna Kashina is a smooth writer making THE PRINCESS OF DHAGABAD a pleasure to read.  Her concept of the djin being the gods' way of punishing humans who learn too much is amusing and creates an internally consistent magic system.<br />Not a lot actually happens in this novel.  The adventure is personal and coming of age, rather than monumental.  Like a romance, what matters is the relationship between two people, not the saving of the world or creating great new empires.	2000-10-07
2256342:US	49115690	R1ZYROEFQNS0UO	0312206062	587458749	The Irish Manor House Murder: A Torrey Tunet Mystery (Torrey Tunet Mysteries)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	An American in Ireland--with murder going on	Torrey Tunet has retreated to a small Irish village to work on her writing. When her best friend Rowena is accused of murdering Rowena's grandfather, Torrey knows she's got to do more than write.  Certainly the police aren't going to solve the crime--they have their suspect.<br />Dicey Deere does an excellent job providing motives, characters, and a convincing Irish village atmosphere.  Better yet, she hooks the reader and keeps him/her coming for more with plot twists.  Just when you think you have the big picture, Deere changes things up and you realize there is even more going on here.	2000-10-06
2260278:US	49115690	RRVGY12WDH4WI	0312866488	65357109	A Wizard In The Way (Chronicles of the Rogue Wizard)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Light, funny, good Tao twist	Christopher Stasheff writes a good light fantasy and the Wizard series (a sequel to the Warlock series with one of Galoglass's sons) is prime Stasheff.<br />In this novel Gar Pike, with his sidekick Area, land on a planet where psychic magicians rule the serfs with terror and magic.  Gar resolves to teach Tao (The Way from the title) to encourage the serfs to try to better themselves.  Initially frustrated by the serf's extreme fear, Gar continues the battle.<br />I would have liked to see more a more direct relationship between Gar's Tao teachings and the rebellion he eventually leads. I think Stasheff missed an opportunity to make this fine book stand out as a unique novel here.  Also, Stasheff has avoided the easy happy-ever-after solution to the sexual tension between Gar and Alea.  Is he getting close to a stagnant relationship, however?	2000-10-04
2261649:US	49115690	R17YI4DB5DP9K3	0385333927	951729133	Pagan Babies	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Intriguing and fast-moving	Elmore Leonard can make you empathize with an amoral killer. PAGAN BABIES is about Terry Dunn, a fake priest who plans on scamming Catholics for money supposedly to benefit Rwandan orphans.  Since Dunn has spent the past five years in Rwanda, he knows about the genocide that country experienced, but his interests are closer to home.  Whether despite, or because of Dunn's character, you learn to root for him.<br />Although you enjoy every page, you may be left with a slightly empty feeling at the end.	2000-10-03
2262363:US	49115690	RC9STZVJ59BG6	0312208944	291569052	He Who Dies (An Angela Matelli Mystery)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good sense of place	Wendi Lee conveys a great sense of place in her private eye story about Angela Matelli and her large Boston-area Italian family.  Her brother Albert doesn't show up for the family Sunday dinner and Angela's mother is worried.  Since Albert makes his living as a front man for the Mafia, some concern is in order.<br />Although I enjoyed Angela and her family, I was looking for that twist to the mystery plot.  While the novel ended up in an exciting climax, there wasn't much surprise about who was keeping Albert, why they were doing it, or what was going to happen next.	2000-10-02
2266081:US	49115690	R7W8G548PB2HP	031286891X	324481802	Animist	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great character	Alex wants to get a great animal, make a lot of money, and become a hero.  Instead, a rat answers his magic call. Together, they struggle to get a grip on Alex's quite limited powers, make friends, and battle a powerful magician.<br />Animist is nicely written and offers a truly convincing character in Alex.  He means well, makes the honorable decision most of the time, and does his best to help others, even when they don't want his help. He is a fully 3 dimensional character. Even Mote, the rat, is an interesting character with his own emotional range and depth.	2000-09-29
2266525:US	49115690	RP0PORHE2Q859	0515129046	278860470	The Caleb Trees	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Suicide, Adultery, and Romance	The Caleb Trees is about Meg DeWilde's attempts to deal with her son Caleb's suicide, to find a reason for such a terrible tragedy. Meg can't put the death behind her, rejecting her husband Jack's belief that they must move on with their lives before Caleb's suicide destroys their whole family.  The reader's sympathy for Jack is reduced by his adultery.<br />Still, Jack is right.  Although Meg finally does discover a reason, the reader is left wondering whether she and the entire family might not have been better off had she dealt with her loss rather than sought an answer.	2000-09-28
2271349:US	49115690	R29L6EX9BKUGVC	034540856X	685150972	The Collapsium	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Modern Fairy Tale	In the 24th century, mankind has elected a queen and a fascination with a scientist who fears social entanglements so much he creates his own private planet to work alone.  Of course this doesn't work as the queen needs him to rescue the solar system.<br />The writing is almost fairy-tale simple, yet both the science and the character development show hints of far greater depth.  Take your time with this one and it may well repay the investment.	2000-09-25
2274494:US	49115690	R1OLVRPOGPNMF5	0312867867	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good secondary character	Nicci saves this book.  Richard (the hero) and Kahlan (his wife) are one-dimensional.  Richard is noble and self-sacrificing.  Kahlan is brave and good.  Nicci is evil and well-meaning.  She loves pain yet lives to save others.  She also kidnaps Richard, drags him away from his wife, and holds Kahlan's life over him like a club.  Way to go, Goodkind by developing Nicci.	2000-09-22
2274521:US	49115690	R1Z7BNGF2PJH0B	0312266081	661327481	Jumper	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Learn about Roller Coasters	I learned a lot about roller coasters in this mystery--which is good because they are interesting. Someone is sabotaging America's roller coasters and have set up Samuel Garvey as the fall guy.  Garvey designs coasters and is building his masterpiece--a coaster where the carts actually jump through open air. Garvey knows he is in trouble but who could possibly benefit from killing people in roller coasters.  Until he can find the motive, all of his expertise won't help him.	2000-09-22
2277446:US	49115690	RSWCSND2TIGGS	0553107348	599855363	Jane and the Stillroom Maid: Being the Fifth Jane Austen Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good Regency Feel	Stephanie Barron has put it together.  Jane Austen makes an intriguing character and, in this mystery, she gets to stretch herself to the limit. A  maid is found dressed as a man, murdered and, apparently, ritually  mutilated.  The local nobility are the suspects and Austen must prevent  injustice.<br />Barron gives an authentic regency feel.  Austen speaks and  acts like one of her characters. She accepts the confines of the regency  attitudes toward women, yet adapts those confines to her needs to the point  where they don't constrain her. I especially enjoyed the ongoing romantic  tension between Austen and Lord Harold--a tension that is made ever more  telling by the very Austen-like ambitions of Jane's mother.	2000-09-20
2280530:US	49115690	R30AN5SXUXDKZR	0312243790	129016620	Dead Men Living	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Complex and convincing	Charlie Muffin gets by by not getting noticed. He can't do that when he's  roped into solving an ancient World War II mystery--a British and American  officer are found dead in the Russian gulag. Worse, someone is trying to  keep their story as buried as their bodies were. Author Brian Freemantle  does a great job describing modern Russia and also characterizing the  office politics that are the bane of Russian, American, and British  existance.  Could it be, though, that the women were a little stereotyped?	2000-09-17
2282130:US	49115690	R2KR1CHL1CGK4N	0671578804	608031099	Balshazzars Serpent	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good Start	Chalker is a great writer and doesn't let up with this book. Although B's  Serpent is clearly written to introduce characters and the worlds of 'The  Three Kings' it is a compelling story in its own right. I would have liked  to see more character development. Perhaps because Chalker is introducing  characters who will play vital roles in future novels, we do not truly  learn to fully empathize with very many in this introductory novel. Pretty  good.	2000-09-15
2283895:US	49115690	R2J9W2EXDT1TH	0312203462	943008940	The Book of Kills (Roger and Philip Knight Mysteries Set at the Univ. of Notre Dame)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Solid Mystery	Ralph McInerny writes good mystery. Notre Dame fans in particular will  enjoy this story set on the campus. It shows a delightful understanding of  the way major Universities work and the life of the average graduate  student. I was not completely comfortable with McInerny's portrayal of  women, all of whom seemed willing to do just about anything to get their  man. Overall, I enjoyed this mystery and found it very pleasant reading.	2000-09-14
2326703:US	49115690	R22EJV5NRZZUQZ	031286955X	615415595	Cat in a Kiwi Con: A Midnight Louie Mystery	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Writers Rant	When Science Fiction writers get together, they complain about getting ripped off--even as murder runs through the convention. Carole Nelson  Douglas has written another funny, quirky mystery. Again, Midnight Louie,  the cat, plays the staring role.<br />Louie, along with Temple and Max, solve  the crime, but there is a bigger crime here--one left to be solved in a  later book in the series. Read this one for the fun of it, not to have all  the loose ends tied up.	2000-08-12
2337812:US	49115690	R1E5E68DU4U6G9	1880448742	792793214	All the Colors of Darkness	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic SF at its best	Someone is sabotaging the Universal Transmitting Company's new  technology--instantaneous transport of objects and people around the world.  When Detective Jan Darzek investigates, the mystery seems  inexplicable--out of this world.<br />Biggle has a distinctive light style. He  has created a complete universe, as well as an Earth future that is set in  the distant 1980s (he wrote in the 60s). Darzek is a classic SF  hero--untouched by self-doubt.<br />Definitely a classic	2000-08-04
2338896:US	49115690	R6UAED7NWUQ1O	0373168403	210281709	Virgin Promise (Harlequin American Romance, No. 840)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hot	Harlequin American has never been so sexy.  New voice Kara Lennox has created a sexy romp.  Vic Steadman (just a little symbolism in the name)  may be steady, but he can be a bad boy as well--just the man beautiful  virgin Angela Capria is looking for.  Believe me, she's no angel--although  Vic may think she is.<br />It's a fun romance with just enough friends and  family to make it real, but with the real fireworks reserved for the main  characters.	2000-08-04
