514320:US	49200164	RCL68SKC8UTAQ	0786818352	517925240	The Prophecy of the Stones: A Novel	Books	1	37	51	N	N	A real dissapointment	I have come across bad books before but none of them has ever left such a horrible taste in my mouth as The Prophecy of the Stones. I don't know ever know where to start. The one thing I will not criticize is Ms. Bujor's writing style. I'm not saying that it wasn't horrible, but I'm willing to be a nice person and blame every mistake on the chance that it was badly translated. But if you'd like an idea about here writing style let me put it this way. People have criticized books written by young authors such as Amelia Atwater-Rhodes and Christopher Paoloini but let me tell you, their prose is Shakespeare compared to Ms. Bujor. Bad translation is no excuse from the horrible plotline. It's you're typical sheroic fantasy story line, three girls discover they have magical gifts that can save the world. Jade, a spoiled daughter of a local duke; Amber a naieve but sweet peasant girl; and Opal a stony intellectual; are given beautiful stones on their birthday, each one the same as their name. They learn that they are part of a prophecy and their connections with these magical stones will help them save the world. How? They are not sure? But Jade's noble father, Opal's elderly grandmother, and Amber's dying mother, tells them to meet the other two girls at a large tree. They warn them that they will be their enemies and they must be careful. What they're supposed to do, well that's up to them to find out. Meanwhile in modern day in Paris, France, a depressed teenager named Joa lies dying on a hospital bed. The only thing keeping her alive is the dreams she has of three girls, Jade, Opal, and Amber.    My first complaint is the characters themselves. All three of the main characters are incredibly stereotypical. Jade is the basic spoiled rich noble who is quite pretty and whines until she gets her way. Amber is an ordinary, simple but caring peasant who is also pretty. Opal is a emotionless intellectual who, before the novel, spent most of her times with books. Also, she hasa unique beauty. Notice a trend here? Unfortunately it's not just them who are horrible characters. The Nameless one is your typical tragic warrior with a sad past that for some reason he can't remember. Adrien, who looks to be one of the few decent characters in the novel, all but vanishes after they first enter fairytale. The setting is a disappointment as well. We know little to nothing about the world that Jade, Opal, and Amber grow up in. We know a little more about fairytale, after all that's where most of the story takes place, but the author describes the area very sloppily. We don't much of a picture of the area except for the City of Thaar and where the Ghibdul's live. But moving on...    Now the plot. There is nothing original in this. It's almost as if Ms. Bujor, while writing this, simply thought of other things used in other fairytales, fantasy books, and fantasy movies and just stuck them in. There are parts of the story that make no sense at all. For once, why did the three girls' parents tell them they were enemies? Never explained. What is Joa dying of? Never explained. It appears to be a broken heart or something of the like. I often found myself putting down the book and saying, \\"what!\\" in some areas. One seen that I found almost laughable is the scene where they rebel against the Armies of Darkness (I'll get on that one later) near the beginning of the book. Adrien, a rebel they met only a chapter before, is leading the charge. The three girls have no real place in the battle until hark! Jade remembers that she studied about warcraft in school. She warps into a warrior maiden who is an expert fighter. She takes out members of the Army of Darkness, soldiers who are probably seasoned fighters, easily and has no remorse over their death. When all seems lost Opal speaks out against darkness in a dramatic speech (at least I think it was a dramatic speech. Most of the dialogue in this novel is overdramatic and preachy so I'm not sure), and is stabbedas a result. Adrien, thinking her dead, screams in horror declaring that \\"I loved her!\\" even though he had just met her the chapter before and had barely said to words to her. It was at this point I seriously considered putting the book and I kinda wish I did.    A couple more problems I had (these are more nit-picky things than anything) were the very stereotypical names for places and groups. The bad guys have the \\"Armies of Darkness\\" (Evil dead anyone?), and the \\"Sorcerer's of Darkness\\" while the good guys have the \\"Armies of Light.\\" The Chosen One, is a powerful man who is, according to legend, supposed to lead the good guys to victory against the dark and become king (Lord of the Rings rip off right there).    It just wasn't a good book. There are more things I COULD complain about but I'd rather not. [...]	2004-09-21
643863:US	49200164	R1IWSXBYR45R3R	1569319820	343023863	Ceres: Celestial Legend, Vol. 3: Suzumi	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Plot thickens	In Suzumi, the third manga in the series Ceres: Celestial Legend (also known as Ayashi No Ceres) the plot picks up where it stopped off in Yuhi. Aya finds her life getting more and more complicated when the school doctor for her new school is, in fact, Toya, who, for some reason does not want to pursue her romantically anymore. Aya is crushed. She first finds solace with a new friend, a shy girl from school with more than one dangerous secret, then in the arms of Yuhi. Confused, Aya finds herself involved in another disaster. Deadly fires have been starting all over her school. Aya, who does not fully know about her Celestial powers, suspects that she accidentally caused them, hurting other people. Unfortunately she is wrong, and her mistake may cost her life. <br />I'm a little confused why this manga is called \\"Suzumi,\\" considering Suzumi doesn't play that big of a part in this story until the second part of the manga. Still Vol three continues the infectious shoujo story of Ayashi no Ceres. Aya's story is a complex but intense one. You find yourself feeling bad for this girl. All she really wants it to be loved and to live like a normal sixteen year old girl, instead she's cursed with celestial powers that are tearing her family and life apart. The art is beautiful as always. Yu Watase's line work is absolutely stunning. The only problem I had with this novel is that it was cluttered with completely useless facts. Watase-San's little rambles that she puts ever few pages have been cute and entertaining in the past but her thoughts about cloning and genetics are just annoying. I found myself rolling my eyes at her charts to explain the meaning behinds DNA and genes. In my opinion, if you're in the \\"older teen\\" bracket this manga is intended for you should already know these things. I guess it's different in Japan. <br />Still I would recommend this manga. If you loved the anime series, you'll love the manga.	2004-06-03
644775:US	49200164	R2VPZV7C5LDTJG	0765345048	719563321	Kushiel's Chosen: A Novel (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Phedre's next adventure	Kushiel's Chosen begins soon after Kushiel's Dart ends. Phedre, now the Countess of Montreve makes a difficult decision to return to the service of Naamah, much to the dismay of her lover the Cassiel guard Joscelin. But she has her reasons to returning to her past life as a prostitute, Melisande Shahrizai, a woman who betrayed the Queen Ysandre to the Skaldi, has escaped from her imprisonment and only Phedre can find her. Phedre, who still feels intense love and desire for Melisande, finds herself traveling to La Serenissima to search for the traitorous woman. Her only companions are Joscelin and the final three members of Phedre's boys. Unfortunately things are not what they seem in La Serenissima. Phedre soon finds herself involved in a large plot of assassination that has infiltrated even the temples of the Goddess Asaharat-of-the-Sea. Just when Phedre thinks she has everything found out she is kidnapped and taken away, separated from her protector Joscelin and utterly alone. Can she get back to Terre D'Ange soon enough to save her queen?<br />Kushiel's Chosen has all of the attractive elements found in Kushiel's Dart, wonderful storytelling, attractive settings, and complex characters. Phedre has learned a lot from her previous adventures and has matured quite a bit but still finds herself coming up against problems. You find yourself wishing that she and Joscelin would just throw away there differences and make up again, despite both of their stubbornness. <br />Although this book is quite amazing it does not live up to its groundbreaking predecessor. There is a rather long lull in the text starting when Phedre travels to La Serenissima. But don't give up on this book! Once you get further into it, the novel turns into the exciting page turner. This book has many new things that the first novel lacked. We get to see new countries, all which exist along southern Europe. Also we get our first pirate characters, something that fans are sure to appreciate.<br />Soif you're in the mood for a sexy fantasy novel with plenty of plot twists and turns read this book! Although it isn't quite as good as the first in the series it's an amazing novel that you'll be sure to love.	2004-06-03
645829:US	49200164	R23SIYUU2UC4UO	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Fresh and Original Epic Fantasy	I have read many novels where the main character has been god touched, and uses his or her skills as an emissary of the gods to help save the lives of others but never in this way. Kushiel's Dart a novel by fantasy newcomer Jacquline Carey is a unique story. I can seriously say I have never seen anything quite like it before. It tells the story of, Phedre, a girl born with an ill luck name and a scarlet mote in her left eye. Considered to be cursed, she is sold in indentured servitude into the Night Court where she hopes one day to become a servant of Naamah, the goddess of sexual pleasure. Her life is changed forever when she is taken in by Anafiel no Delauny, a courtesan and spy. He sees her for what she really is, an anguissette, a child touched by the God of punishment Kusheil. This means that she is forced forever to feel pleasure and pain as one. As she begins to train for Naamah's service it is Delauny who teaches her the skills she will need to know to survive. He teachers her languages, history, and how to listen and pay attention in a world of dangerous politics. <br />There are so many good things to be said about this novel and I cannot possibly list them all here. One of the most attractive things about this book, in my opinion, is the elegant prose it is written in. Certainly not for everyone, Ms. Carey writes in a very descriptive manner filled with beautiful picture of the D'Angeline world. Although some would consider this to be too drawn out and lengthy is fits the character, a strong woman who is taught to listen and pay attention to every detail, perfectly. Another strong point would have to be the instantly likeable characters. Phedre for all of her strengths is a wonderfully flawed character. Even though she is intelligent, beautiful, and skilled she also falls victim to too much pride, impulsiveness, and often not thinking about how her actions will affect others. You will find yourself completely enthralled in her world from first page on andeager to find out what will happen to her and the other characters such as Hyacinthe and Joscelin. <br />The setting is another strength of Ms. Carey's writing. Although the map in the beginning of this book may look familiar (Central Europe) she manages to create interesting cultures that resemble there real life counterparts and, at the same time are very much different. Terre D'Ange, where much of the novel takes place, is a passionate world filled with beautiful people, the descendants of gods, and complicated politics. Carey also shows a skill for creating interesting religions, although the reader will not completely see that until the second book in this trilogy, Kushiel's Chosen.<br />I've honestly never thought a 900 page book could be called a page turner but this certainly was. I read it in under a week and immediately went out and bought the sequel. Although many readers may be put off by amount of sex and violence (sometimes in the same scene) I urge you to look past that and see the novel for what it really is, an amazing story about a strong woman and the adventures she has.	2004-06-02
1048977:US	49200164	R259BCZ7X1BGFA	0451459318	809574707	The Glasswrights' Test	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Rani's Impossible Task	When Rani trader was thirteen-years-old she witnessed a horrible murder, a murder she was suspected to commit. As a result of this her guild, which was responsible for creating the beautiful glass that decorated Morenia, was all but destroyed by the kings soldiers. The glasswrights fled to Brianta and have learned to hate Rani's name. Years have past and now, more than anything, Rani longs to be reconnected with her broken guild, The Glasswrights. That's why she is delighted when she receives a letter from them, asking her if she wants to become a master at her trade. Rani agrees, bringing Princess Berylina, an exiled Liantine noble who has the ability to feel the thousand gods all around her, Berylina's priest, and Rani's fellow glass maker and lover Tobin Player. Unfortunately there are darker matters at stake here. The Brotherhood of Jair, a secret organization that Rani is a member of, is controlling the glasswrights guild. And if Rani doesn't do what the brotherhood asks of her, she will never become a glasswright and someone might die. Now Rani faces a horrible decision, will she murder her Queen or face the consequences.<br />The Glasswrights Test is ever better than the other three books (The Glasswrights Apprentice, The Glasswrights Progress, and The Glasswrights Journeyman) in this wonderful series by Mindy L. Klasky. One thing I discovered in this book is real strong character development. Rani finally starts to take responsibility for her actions and finally understands why other people seem to be seeking revenge against her. She emerges as a truly strong woman by the end of this book, a result of the impossible tasks she is put up against. I was also happy to see Princess Berylina, take a stronger role in this book. She is no longer the shy dimwitted child but a devoted and complex woman. Ever Hal, who spends so little time in the spotlight in this novel, seems more like the king he was destined to become. The new country of Brianta is an interesting place that reminded me a lot of the holy lands in our world.<br />In conclusion this has got to be Mindy L. Klasky's best work yet and it doesn't end here! The final book in the series, The Glasswrights Master, comes out in June 2004. The ending is quite a cliffhanger and I can't wait to see what will happen to Rani, Hal, Mair, Crestman, and the rest of the characters next. I recommend this book to all fans of the Glasswright Saga.	2003-07-15
1090601:US	49200164	R32QM9Q5QOW3JN	015204566X	504604393	Dealing with Dragons: The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not your average damsel in distress	Princess Cimorene lives in a fairy tale universe where the beautiful princess always gets rescued from the dreaded dragon and ends up living happily ever after. She doesn't enjoy being proper and doing princess activities like needle work. She likes to fence, learn Latin, cook, and learn magic. That is until her father stopped her from doing all of the things she loved simply because it \\"isn't done.\\" <br />When Cimorene is faced with the possibility of marrying a Prince whom she can't stand she'll do anything in her power to stop this from happening, including running away and voluntarily getting kidnaped by a dragon. Luckily for Cimorene her dragon is kind and lets Cimorene do all the things she was forbidden to do. Unfortunately Cimorene can't go on living her new life. Knights and Prince's come every day with the hope of rescuing her from the evil dragon. She sends them away but yet they continue to come. To top that off wizards have been hanging around the dragons lair and Cimorene suspects that they have sinister plots. With the help of a naieve princess, a prince made from stone, a kind witch, and a bunch of dragons, Cimorene is off to save the day.<br />Dealing with Dragons is the first book of Patricia C. Wrede's well renowned Enchanted Forest Chronicles. I've been meaning to read these for ages now and I'm glad I did. Cimorene is a strong female character that young girls can look up to and older ones can relate to. She doesn't fit into the picture perfect fairy tale world that she lives in and instead of trying to change herself, she makes everyone else change there rules. I love the description of the dragons. It's nice to see a novel where they aren't portrayed as large, stupid, and evil, but almost human, just a great deal older. The supporting cast is great, including Morwen the kind witch, Alianora the princess (who I've found is the easiest to relate to), and the two wizards with horrible plots. <br />The book ends happily but leaves the door open for the rest of the series that I will be sure to read as soon as I get my hands on them! I highly recommend this novel to anyone into kids or YA fantasy with strong female characters.	2003-06-12
1102380:US	49200164	R2MR0HHFWY0IMX	0439176824	131745674	The Fall (Seventh Tower #1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not as good as Sabriel but amazing in it's own way	Thirteen-year-old Tal is a chosen. This means that in place of his shadow he has a shadowguard, a shapshifting shadow that protects him from harm. In a few months he will have the chance to shed his shadowguard and bind himself to an adult shadowspirit. Unfortunately because of an unfortunate series of events Tal may not be able to receive a shadow spirit. You see he cannot go through the ceremony unless he has a primary sunstone and because his father has disappeared he has very few ways of receiving this sunstone. Even more serious is his mother's health. Tal's mother is very sick and the only thing that can help her is the light of a sunstone. Tal knows that if he doesn't find a primary sunstone, chances are she will die. This sends young Tal out on a dangerous journey through the castle he lives in. He knows that he only has so much time and must do anything he can to receive this primary sunstone. Unfortunately people seem to be working against his quest to receive a sunstone. It looks like his only hope is to steal a sunstone, and the only way he can do that is to climb up the castle and penetrate the mysterious vale where the sunstones are stored.<br />Garth Nix is probably best known for his dark YA series (starting with Sabriel) that takes you into a mysterious world known as the old Kingdom where the Abhorsen is peoples only protection against dangerous necromancers. The Fall, the first book of the Seven Towers series looks to have some things in common with Sabriel and it's predecessors. It's filled with fascinating characters and dark and mysterious creatures. It has a strong female character and a new and original world. The Castle is a mysterious place where what you're class is means everything. Unfortunately, it's not quite as gripping and addicting as Sabriel, possibly because it's written in a much different style. The Seventh Tower series was made for a much younger audience so it doesn't posses the enthralling descriptions and complex characterization as Sabriel. Still the book is very good. It's fast paced, exciting, and interesting to read. Tal is a very amiable character. I can't wait to see what will happen to him and the other characters in the second book in the series, Castle.	2003-06-02
1109553:US	49200164	R1LDJGV2BEIUGY	0689860072	155744261	Dragonsinger (Harper Hall of Pern)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Stronger than the last!	For all of her life, Menolly has loved music and dreamt of becoming a harper. Unfortunately because Menolly's gender, she was never allowed to fully embrace her musical talents. Now her dreams have come true and Menolly is living in Harper Hall as the first girl ever to train to become a Harper, along with the nine fire lizards she impressed not too long ago. Unfortunately life at Harper Hall is not what Menolly has expected. The girls that are students (not as apprentices to become harpers, just students) are either distant or downright mean to her because of her status as an apprentice. Many of the professors are impressed with her knowledge of music, but tell her that she must learn more. The other professors look down on her because she is female. Menolly knows that living in Harper Hall will not be easy but at the same time she's learning so much and having the time of her life. Dragonsinger chronicles the first week of Menolly's life at Harper Hall.<br />I think that Dragonsinger, is even stronger than Dragonsong. The world of Pern continues to be fascinating at Harper Hall seems like such an interesting place to live. I love the new characters such as Professor Dominick, the composition teacher who pushed Menolly to her breaking point, Piermur, Menolly's new mischevious friend who teachers her about Harper Hall, and the journeyman Sebelle, a favorite character of mine. I also loved to see more of the Masterharper, since he sort of becomes a foster father to Menolly who's own father never really seemed to care much for her. As a musician I was really happy to see not only more music, but also to see the Anne McCaffery knows a thing or two about singing correctly and instruments. She doesn't try to pretend, she actually knows what she's talking about. Dragonsinger, even though it is the second novel in The Harper Hall Trilogy, looks to be the end of Menolly's story, since Piermur seems to take center stage in Dragondrums. I can't wait to read the third book in this trilogy!this trilogy!	2003-05-27
1110107:US	49200164	R3Q50E56ZVO283	0060526777	823798173	Princess Lessons (A Princess Diaries Book)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Pure Fun	By now, most people who read YA novels knows that Mia Thermopolis is the star of the Princess Diaries series by Meg Cabot. Throughout the first four books of the series we have seen Mia's triumphs and pitfalls as she's dragged kicking and screaming into the life of a Genovian Princess. In Princess Lessons the bubbly anxious teen takes a break from telling us about her life in learning how to be a princess and tells us what all princesses, and teenage girls in general should know. After a quick introduction from Mia we hear about Beauty from the amazing Paolo (\\"I spit on kohl!\\" and fashion from Grandmere. Throughout the rest of the book we heard about manners, education and character from the various characters in the book and finally, about dating from Tina Hakin Baba. This last part includes a very funny interview from Michael Moscovitz.<br />This book is pure fun. It manages to provide a sort of self help book for teenage girls while throwing in much humor from the characters from the series. Mia is always there, writing in pink and commenting about the things she agrees and disagrees about. Some of my favorite parts has to be Paolo's humorous part on makeup and Sebastinano commenting on fashion, with his poor accented English. Another favorite part of mine has to be Michael's brief but amusing interview.<br />This book is not necessary for fans of the Princess Diary to read. It must have taken place after the fourth book but it doesn't really continue the story at all. If you're a fan of the series you don't have to read it. Personally I think that it's just pure fun. You'll read it in one sitting. Still it is not a real Princess Diary book, and I'd prefer another edition to the series than a self help book any day. Reading page after page of \\"how to\\"s gets annoying after a while but it's still a great thing for fans of the Princess Diaries to read while they're waiting for The Princess Diaries Volume Four and a Half: Project Princess to come out.	2003-05-27
1117022:US	49200164	R1ZKPPDZIQYOK	0689859376	755887514	The Seeing Stone	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Just as strong as the last one!	Jared's life has changed very much since he moved into his crazed Aunt Lucinda's Spiderwick manor. He's found a secret room and in this room he's found a book called Arthur Spiderwick's Field Guide to Fantastical World Around you, which tells you all about the world of faeries. He's discovered that his new home is inhibited by a Brownie named Thimbletack, who doesn't seem to like to see Jared with the Feild Guide at all, and there are many amazing creatures that live inside the walls of this house. In the Seeing Stone, something horrible happens. His twin brother Simon has been kidnaped by goblins while he was looking for his missing cat. Now Simon and his older sister Mallory must track down these goblins. Unfortunately human eyes cannot see goblins so how will they possibly find him? The answer is the seeing stone. The seeing stone will give Jared the ability to see faeries. Unfortunately that's just the beginning of their newest adventure.<br />Just like The Field Guide, this book is barely over one hundred pages and filled with many detailed illustrations of our heroes and the magical creatures in action. The first book was a mere introduction to the series but this book actually takes the three into their real adventures. It's not quite as entertaining as the last one, possibly because the story line seems like it should have been expanded a little more, but it's still very entertaining and a fun book. Although it's short and filled with pictures it's not just for kids. Teenage and adult fans who are fans of such books like Artemis Fowl, A Series of Unfortunate Events, and The Thief Lord will really enjoy this. If you've read The Field Guide and enjoyed it like me, read this book. It's very suspenseful and exciting. I can't wait until the third book in the series, Lucinda's Secret hits stores.	2003-05-21
1123651:US	49200164	R1DJ8O02I9BY5V	0743437314	874934684	The Merchant of Death (Pendragon)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The first novel in an amazing new quartet	Bobby Pendragon lives a life most 14-year-olds dream about. He's popular, athletic, smart, and he's just kissed one of the hottest girls in school. Unfortunately right after he receives that special kiss his Uncle Press takes him away to another world called Denduron through an abandoned subway station in the Bronx. Denduron is a world much different from our own. Its ruled by the Bendoowan who treat the lower working class like slaves. But before he can find out what's going on his uncle is captured and two mysterious woman become his guide. They tell him that he is a traveler and now that his Uncle has been captured and will die soon it's his duty to lead the revolution of the working class against the Bendoowan. Bobby, of course, freaks. He doesn't want to lead a revolution but as it turns out he doesn't have much of a choice. He needs to help these people whether he wants it or not. His only link to our world, known to travelers as Second Earth, is the journals he writes and sends to his best friend Mark and maybe-one-day-girlfriend Courtney. Soon Bobby realizes that his job as a traveler isn't about Denduron, it's about something much bigger.<br />I didn't know what to expect with this book. The summary on the back of the book was rather vague. Still it was recommended to me so I felt that I had to read it. I was very pleasantly surprised. Bobby's journey is very suspenseful and covered with fantasy filled adventure. The thing I like the most about Bobby is the fact that he's not a warrior like Loor or Osa. He's a normal 14-year-old kid but somehow he manages to triumph over all, even though he stumbles a lot on the way. <br />Although on the outside this book may seem like a simple fantasy there's a lot of deeper issues imbedded inside of it about class relations, morality, and nuclear weapons. The younger readers probably won't get all of these issues but that won't impair their enjoyment of the novel at all. I really enjoyed this book and I look foreword toreading the other three books in the quartet, including the next book in the series, The Lost City of Faar. Enjoy!	2003-05-15
1127673:US	49200164	R3KXP8N889XL87	0689859368	904663340	The Field Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Short but Sweet	Nine-year-old Jared Grace is at a strange point in his life. His father has just left his family and he was nearly expelled from school after getting into a fight (he came out with a black eye, the other kid left with a broken nose). Also he doesn't seem to be good at anything like his intelligent animal obsessed twin brother Simon or his thirteen-year-old sister Mallory, a fencing expert. When the three of them and their mother move from the house they've grown up in to Spiderwick Manor, their crazy aunt's crumbling home, Jared is not too pleased. But strange things start to happen once Jared steps inside the door. A mysterious room is found and attacks are made on his family. Special posessions go missing and the blame is all placed on our hero. Jared knows that he must find the answers to all of these strange occurrences and he finds them in a book, a very strange book, a book on fairies.<br />In the past few years, children's literature has received many new solid novels and series. Some examples are Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events, Eoin Colfer's Artemis Fowl Series, Neil Gaiman's Coraline, and Harry Potter himself. Although I doubt the Spiderwick Chronicles will get as much publicity as these other books but that doesn't mean that it doesn't deserve some praise of it's own. The Field Guide is a tiny book, but it's filled with creativity and imagination, a great beginning to a series. It reads much like a cross between A Series of Unfortunate Events and Diane Wynne Jones's Chrestomanci Quartet with a spice of Coraline's creepiness. Jared is a great character, much like any nine year old. This is the first book in a series of five. The second book in the series, The Seeing Stone, is already out and I can't wait to read it!	2003-05-11
1128279:US	49200164	RQWKL3HYWOM02	0786819146	442293804	The Eternity Code (Artemis Fowl, Book 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Artemis's next adventure	Thirteen-year-old Artemis Fowl is going straight. Now that his father is back and wishes the whole family to become nice and legal he's decided to stop all of his criminal activities and focus the rest of his energy on his education, that is right after he pulls off the crime of his career. It seems simple, blackmail one of the most powerful American businessman, get a metric ton in gold, then settle down at last. Unfortunately nothing goes to plan. The C Cube, a hybrid of fairy and human technology that Artemis was planning on using to revolutionize electronics has been stolen, by the worse person possible. Not only that but Artemis's bodyguard, Butler, is fatally wounded with nothing to save him. Now the human world and the fairy world is at his mercy. Fortunately Artemis has protected the C Cube with a special Eternity Code. For anyone else besides himself, cracking that code will take well ... an Eternity. Artemis knows that his life is endanger so he calls upon the help of Captain Holly Short of the LEP, a high-tech fairy police force, to help him fix his problems. Artemis knows that this is not going to be a simple plan, and more than likely, his last adventure with Holly and the LEP.<br />I didn't think it could get much better after the Arctic Incident. The scene where Artemis was finally reunited with his father seemed like it could never be topped. Boy was I wrong. In this book Artemis is up to his eyeballs in trouble that he never could plan for and chances are he won't make it out whole. At thirteen-and-a-half Artemis has finally begun to develop into gasp! A decent person! All of our old favorites return including Foaley, Mulch Diggums, and Juliet Butler, who finally has a decent sized role. The new villains are absolutely great as well. Add to all of this a shocker ending and you have a great book. I loved Artemis's diary entries where he talks about what it was like to hear that his father had changed. They really give you a good look into who Artemisreally is.<br />Fans of the series will be happy to learn that this is not the last book in the series. I know for a fact that Eoin Colfer is at least planning on writing one more book, although originally The Eternity Code was the last planned book in the series. Eoin Colfer fans will also be happy to learn that The Wish List is going to be released in the United States in October. I can't wait to see what this talented author comes out with next!	2003-05-11
1128790:US	49200164	R13NIL3N434ARJ	0689860080	601203914	Dragonsong (Harper Hall Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Menolly's Story	Menolly lives in the world of Pern, a magical world where Dragons and their riders protect the people from the hazardous thread that falls from the sky. Menolly loves music and shows a powerful talent for it. Her voice is beautiful and she possesses perfect pitch. Her hands seem to be made to play instruments. She makes up tunes all of the time in her head, many which are considered extraordinary by the elderly Harper that trains her. But when the Harper dies and a new one comes to Menolly's hold she can no longer make music like she used to, just because she's female. Menolly's is devastated by this and takes solace in wandering outside of the Hold, away from her family and friends. Here she makes an amazing discovery, fire lizard. Fire Lizards are just like miniature dragons, although many people mistrust their existence. Menolly meets and befriends these fire lizards, forming a strong bond with them. But in the world of Pern, where the thread falls everyday, Menolly's peaceful existence will be disturbed.<br />Ever since I started reading fantasy, people told me that Anne McCaffrey was an author that I needed to get into, especially her Pern novels. I'm very glad that they recommended this to me. This is a fun adventure book. It moves quite quickly and if filled with action and suspense. The character of Menolly is quite easy to relate to. She's so talented yet because of things she can't control, she's not allowed to display her talents. She's quite easy to sympathize with. While this book is often found in the adult fantasy section, while reading it over I almost believe that it was written for a more YA or younger audience. Some of the characters are a bit shallow and I wished that the book was longer so I could get to know them more. from the little info we're told about them they sure seem like interesting characters! I guess we'll learn more about them in Dragonsinger, and Dragondrums, the two other books in the series. This is the first Pern novel I've read and I would recommend it to fans of fantasy, especially fans of dragons.	2003-05-10
1139221:US	49200164	R2FQXRGD1NFRUL	0399239995	155184322	The Angel's Command (Castaways of the Flying Dutchman)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The furthur adventures of Ben and Ned!	As a long time Redwall fan I remember, a few years ago, when I went to a Brain Jacques book signing when he announced that he was going to write Castaways of the Flying Dutchmen, the book to which An Angel's Command is a sequel to. The reaction from the crowd was not one he expected. It was one of horror. Millions of children thought that it meant he was going to stop writing Redwall, or at least postpone it for a little while, and it terrified us all. Luckily, we were wrong. With Castaways of the Flying Dutchmen and now, with The Angel's Command, Brain Jacques proves he can create not just one but TWO series.<br />The book, like Castaways, is divided into two stories that take place back to back in the early 17th century. The first story tells of Ben and Ned, the Castaways, first trip back to the sea. Almost by accident, Ben and Ned find themselves traveling from the Caribbean to France on the Buccaneer ship, Le Petit Marine. They are trailed by two ships, a vengeful Spanish pirate ship and a corrupted English privateer boat. Both of them are interested in one thing, Le Petit Marie's gold. Ben and Ned know they must help their new friend, the captain Thuron, in any way possible. But the crew of the ship is not as noble as the captain. They don't want to go back to France, and they'll do anything to stop the captain from getting them their. At the same time Ben and Ned are haunted by images of the Flying Dutchman. Has Captain Vanderdecken come back to haunt them?<br />The second story happens almost directly after the first one. Ben and Ned run into a gypsy girl named Lalay and a facemaker named Dominic that can see into the hearts of his models for his drawings. They travel to a city called Vernon as friends and find themselves caught up in a strange adventure. A boy named Adamo, was kidnapped by the Razan, strange witch-like people, years ago and has not been seen by his family since. Ben and Ned immediately volunteer to help find Adamo but this journey may proveto be the most treacherous one yet. As they travel through the Pyrenees they face many challenges, but no challenge is more daunting then what they find when they reach the Razan.<br />I loved these two stories. They are filled with high adventure, suspense, and a little bit of mystery here and there. I like how Brain Jacques gives us not one, but two stories. It makes the book twice as enjoyable. He somehow manages to do this without making the story seem choppy and divided, which I find admirable. Once again the characters of Ben and Ned are great. The clever and goodhearted Ben and his witty and intelligent dog Ned are extremely enjoyable to watch. I also really liked the new characters Mr. Jacques's created for the story. Whether it's the plucky Lalay, the brave Thuron or the brave Dominic, they always are interesting. Magdula Razan is one of the creepiest villain's I've seen in one of Mr. Jacques's books to date! I hope you enjoy this book as much as I have!	2003-05-01
1142277:US	49200164	R2C6TDC6PI9N9O	0812570820	915491164	Prophecy: Child of Earth (Rhapsody, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing!	When writing a trilogy of this nature when one story almost seamlessly flows into the next, the middle book is probably one of the most difficult to read and enjoy. There is no real beginning. There is no end. Elizabeth Haydon somehow makes her second book not only good but better than the first.<br />For the first time, Rhapsody and her foster brothers, Achmed and Grunthor must part when Rhapsody goes off to meet a mysterious Dragon of legends in order to learn more of a prophecy. Her guide is Ashe, a mysterious and sometimes dangerous wanderer who hides his face from the world with a strange mist cloak. As she travels to the dragons lair, then to train in the art of the sword with a Lirin swordsmaster, Achmed and Grunthor are left at home, Ylorc, with their foster sister Jo. The half-Dhracian Achmed, the newly appointed Firblog king, with his sergeant major, Grunthor accidentally come across a strange hidden place in his castle, left over from the time that king Gwylliam ruled. Here they learn more about the prophecy of the three and the part that they all must play in the dangerous times they face. Meanwhile Rhapsody, ready to face the world, runs off to save the live of a famous religious man, and comes back with knowledge that could change her life forever.<br />This book was even better than the last. The highly complex and fascinating characters of Rhapsody, Achmed, and Grunthor really develop in this novel as they find out more about their destiny. Jo, I'm happy to say, is not as annoying in this book. In fact she has really developed into a likable character. Ashe, who played a smaller part in the last book, takes on a major role, first as Rhapsody's guide then as something much more. A lot happens in this book that we saw little of in the last one. A captivating romance blossoms between two characters. Friendship deepens between main characters and new supporting roles develop. <br />Once again I love the descriptive writing style of Elizabeth Haydon. I felt like I could really see the Loritorium and the insides of the dragons lair. Her characters are amazing as well. I can't wait to read the next volume in the trilogy, Destiny: Child of the Sky. I hope you enjoy this as much as I did!	2003-04-28
1142442:US	49200164	RSV4OYKMYS74X	0812570820	915491164	Prophecy: Child of Earth (Rhapsody, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amazing!	When writing a trilogy of this nature when one story almost seamlessly flows into the next, the middle book is probably one of the most difficult to read and enjoy. There is no real beginning. There is no end. Elizabeth Haydon somehow makes her second book not only good but better than the first.<br />For the first time, Rhapsody and her foster brothers, Achmed and Grunthor must part when Rhapsody goes off to meet a mysterious Dragon of legends in order to learn more of a prophecy. Her guide is Ashe, a mysterious and sometimes dangerous wanderer who hides his face from the world with a strange mist cloak. As she travels to the dragons lair, then to train in the art of the sword with a Lirin swordsmaster, Achmed and Grunthor are left at home, Ylorc, with their foster sister Jo. The half-Dhracian Achmed, the newly appointed Firblog king, with his sergeant major, Grunthor accidentally come across a strange hidden place in his castle, left over from the time that king Gwylliam ruled. Here they learn more about the prophecy of the three and the part that they all must play in the dangerous times they face. Meanwhile Rhapsody, ready to face the world, runs off to save the live of a famous religious man, and comes back with knowledge that could change her life forever.<br />This book was even better than the last. The highly complex and fascinating characters of Rhapsody, Achmed, and Grunthor really develop in this novel as they find out more about their destiny. Jo, I'm happy to say, is not as annoying in this book. In fact she has really developed into a likable character. Ashe, who played a smaller part in the last book, takes on a major role, first as Rhapsody's guide then as something much more. A lot happens in this book that we saw little of in the last one. A captivating romance blossoms between two characters. Friendship deepens between main characters and new supporting roles develop. <br />Once again I love the descriptive writing style of Elizabeth Haydon. I felt like I could really see the Loritorium and the insides of the dragons lair. Her characters are amazing as well. I can't wait to read the next volume in the trilogy, Destiny: Child of the Sky. I hope you enjoy this as much as I did!	2003-04-28
1170102:US	49200164	R3FY786RQI5VVZ	0812522729	274840078	Children of the Night: A Diana Tregarde Investigation	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A great work of horror by Mercedes Lackey	Diana Tregarde is a guardian. This means she has certain magical powers and is required to help anyone in need of magical assistance that asks her. Very few people know of this. When they see Diana they see a follower of the pagan faith who writes romance novels. One day when she's working in an occult shop to make ends meet she runs across a gypsy boy who needs her help. She helps breaks his trail and sends him on his way. Soon after that he is found dead on her doorstep, with what looks like a vampire leering over them. Diana soon finds out about psivamps, vampires with much different killing methods than simple vamps. With the help of her friends and an attractive French vampire named Andre, she knows that it's her duty as a guardian to solve this mystery, to stop these killers.<br />Across town Diana's ex-boyfriend, Dave, is falling into some very dangerous activities. After he and the rest of his band take some strange drugs they wake up the next morning feeling horrible. But when the band plays the next night they feel more alive than ever before. They're turning into something strange, and Dave is the only one that seems to realize that what they're turning into is something wrong. How will he deal with this? <br />Like many I was surprised upon hearing about the Diana Tregarde series. Mercedes Lackey write horror fiction? After hearing about the controversy surrounding the books I had to read them. I was very impressed. Children of the Night is a strong novel about guardians, gypsies, and vampires. Although the writing novel is not as strong as some of her later Valdemar novels the book is still very good. The character of Diana Tregarde manages to be strong without being too powerful. The supporting characters of Kenny, Keith are a bit underdeveloped but still good. Before reading Children of the Night all of the novels I had read by Mercedes Lackey were Valdemar. This novel has persuaded me to branch out to read her other works. <br />I also realize that this novel has faced many controversies. One is very dangerous. It can be read about on Mercedes Lackey's official site. It explains why she isn't writing and more Diana Tregarde novels. The other controversies are that her books are too much like Hamilton and Huff's vampire novels. Although I can't speak about the Huff novels I have read a few of the Anita Blake novels. I actually found this to be more interesting than the Hamilton ones. I recommend this to fans of Mercedes Lackey and horror novels.	2003-04-04
1170527:US	49200164	R2KCCLECVDU2CV	0886774543	261091023	Oathbreakers (Vows and Honor, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The thrilling conclusion to Vows and Honors	A lot has changed since Oathbound. Tarma, the shin'a'nin swordsworn, and Kethry, the sorceress, are members of the Sunhawks, a famous mercenary clan leaded by Captain Idra. After fighting and finishing up one civil war they find that they may need to get involved in another one. Although she doesn't act like it, Idra is actually royalty and her two brothers are fighting over who deserves to win the throne in the country of Rethwellen. Because of this, Idra leaves the Sunhawks for a little while, and then never comes back. Tarma and Kethry are very concerned and volunteer to go Rethwellen in disguise to find out what happened to Idra. When they get their they realize that in many ways it's almost like she had never been there. Her horse is gone. All of her belongings aren't there. Where is Idra? They find out from friends that she had claimed to go off in search for some mysterious sword that would decide once and for all who was really king. What happened after that will shock Tarma and Kethry more then they ever imagine.<br />I really enjoyed the first book in the series, Oathbound, but this one really blew me a way. Not only is it better plotted but the new characters, including Jadrek and Lodesh, are fascinating. Tamra and Kethry prove once again to be strong heroines that don't let others push them around. This book also has one thing that the last in the series didn't, romance, and very good romance at that. Mercedes's Valdemar novels are always a treat and this one is no exception. The glossary of Shin'a'nin terms in the back are very informative and the songs Mercedes Lackey had added in the end are quite entertaining. I can't wait to read Oathblood, a short story collection staring Tarma and Kethry. I recommend this to any Valdemar fan who hasn't picked this up yet. It's really good!	2003-04-04
1174517:US	49200164	R3UXHRHF7WASBA	0060096071	988812780	Princess in Waiting (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Princess Mia's challenges continue	Princess Mia is upset when she's forced to spend her Christmas break in Genovia, away from her friends, mother, stepfather, and most importantly, her boyfriend Michael. Every moment she spends away from Michael, whether it's during a royal lunch with the secretary of finance or a museum visit, is agonizing for her. She ends up getting in quite a bit of trouble too when she makes a speech about the importance of parking meters. Although the trouble she gets herself in is nothing compared to the mess her distant cousin Rene gets in. As she writes in her diary she begins to have doubts. What if Michael doesn't really like her? What if he only loves her as a friend? What if he's spending his vacation with a Kate Bosworth look a like that can weave him necklaces for his birthday? (Makes little sense? Trust me you'll get it when you read the book). <br />Things don't get much better when she returns home. Her insecurities are blazing out of control, especially now when she realizes something important. Unlike all of her friends and acquaintances she has no noticeable talent. She knows nothing about computers. She's not musically talented. She can't memorize teen romance novels word-for-word. She can't seem to do anything right. She can barely pass algebra! What if Michael will break up with her because of that? To top it up, grandmere is screaming something that will make Mia's life absolutely miserable.<br />Although it starts out a bit slow, Princess in Waiting is just as good as the first three books in the series: The Princess Diaries, Princess in the Spotlight and Princess in Love. Mia is such an amazing character. She's so easy to relate to. Who hasn't felt insecure about themselves from time to time? I loved to watch her relationship with her boyfriend Michael and her best friend Lilly (who somehow manages to [anger me] and then redeem herself by the end of each book) develop even further. The character of Rene is also very interesting. I couldn't stand him in thebeginning but now I'm not too sure. I have a feeling that in the books to come, we'll learn even more about him. If you're a fan of the Princess Diary series, read this! Trust me, if you can get through the first section it will be well worth your time! It's such a fun book! I can't wait to see what happens to Mia next!	2003-04-01
1195054:US	49200164	R3HGKJEEGRY4H4	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Even better the second time!	I first read The Perks of Being a Wallflower when I was just starting my freshman year of high school. At the time I thought the book was fascinating, exciting and above all else, I could really relate to Charlie. We all feel like wallflowers sometimes in our life and Charlie made me realize that I wasn't alone. When I picked up the book for a second time, as a senior coming towards the end of her last year of high school I was left with a somewhat different.<br />Charlie is a wallflower. He begins his freshman year of high school very confused. He is friendless, a result of his only friend Michael, committing suicide only the year before. Most people think of him as weird because of his easy ability to cry and the fact that he's so quiet. When he meets two seniors named Sam and Patrick, everything changes. His time as a wallflower is ended and it's finally time for him to step out onto the dance floor. Sam, Patrick, and their other friends begin to integrate him into the real world by exposing him to sex, drugs, rock and role, and the Rocky Picture show. Charlie begins to learn about friendship, sexuality, while learning how to understand his complicated family. Charlie's freshman year is one of the most effective years of his life.<br />It's strange to read Charlie's story again. I find myself a little surprised at his naivety and vulnerability, something I didn't notice when I was fourteen. It just proves that Charlie acts very much like a freshman in high school, even though he is a bit strange. If you really look at the way the book is written it even sounds a lot like a freshman in high school would sound like. The Perks of Being a Wallflower is a touching book about growing up in a difficult time. I suggest reading it if you are like Charlie, a freshman. Read it if you're just a teenager. Read it if you're an adult. No matter how old you are you'll get something out of this powerful short novel. I highly recommend it!	2003-03-13
1201408:US	49200164	R14AA0G17WA14S	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A new favorite of mine!	Seventeen-year-old Cassandra Mortmain lives a life of poverty is a crumbling castle in England. Her family consists of her father who was once a critically acclaimed author but hasn't been working in years; her eccentric step mother, Topaz; her dramatic and romantic sister, Rose; her younger brother, Thomas; and Stephen, who helps maintain the castle for free and is infatuated with Cassandra. Cassandra begins, one cold evening, sitting in her kitchen sink, to write a journal in order to teach her self how to read. The events that follow this decision will change her life forever. Her family meets the Cottons, two wealthy men from America named Simon and Neil. When Rose becomes attracted to Simon she begins to come up with a plan that could bring the Mortmain family out of poverty. What is she marries Simon? As the book progresses Cassandra deals with all the issues of growing up: love, trust, finding faith, and learning to understand her family and friends. <br />I have to admit the only reason I really read this book is because of JK Rowling's commentary of it on the cover. I learned quite quickly that I Capture the Castle was much different from Harry Potter. Written by Dodie Smith (who wrote 101 Dalmations which has been made into two movies by Disney) in the 1930s, I Capture the Castle manages to capture a young, charismatic narrator that you will fall in love with right away. Cassandra begins this book very much as a child but by the end she has not only &quot;captured the castle&quot; but has grown up into a sophisticated young woman. I very much enjoyed this book. There are a couple twists near the end that even I didn't expect to see. The characters are fascinating and very well drawn and it's written extremely well. I would recommend this novel to both the young and the young at heart. It's a very good book. I highly recommend you read it!	2003-03-09
1210033:US	49200164	R276S7VUAFPWK5	0743223314	701397757	More, Now, Again: A Memoir of Addiction	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Ever wondered what happened After Prozac Nation?	At twenty-six, Elizabeth Wutzel would seem to have everything she ever wanted. Her memoir, Prozac Nation, was a literary smash. She's received National recognition. She's living in beautiful sunny Florida. Still, her depression has not complete disappeared. She is still not happy. Her psychiatrist prescribes Ritalin to help her concentrate her on her work. As a former drug addict, Elizabeth finds it almost logical to ground up the Ritalin and snort it instead of taking it orally. After all they put first graders on Ritalin. It can't be addictive. Wrong. Soon she's taking piles of pills each day. Then she's snorting lines of coke. Then some more Ritalin. Then more coke. It's obvious to those around Elizabeth that she has a problem but Elizabeth doesn't quite see it that way. It's not until she hits rock bottom that she realizes that she needs to quit. She needs help so she checks into a rehab clinic and promises never to use drugs again. Unfortunately, things don't go the way she planned at all.<br />Although More, Now, Again isn't quite as compelling as Elizabeth Wutzel's first memoir, Prozac Nation, it's still an amazing work of nonfiction. As you read her novel you can tell how confused, hurt, and in denial she was the entire time. Her words are just dripping with emotion. Elizabeth Wutzel is not afraid to show both her ups and downs. As you read this memoir you'll find yourself feeling sympathy for her one chapter, then completely furious at her with the next. At the end of the book, Elizabeth starts to achieve what she's always wanted to posses, happiness, but as the book comes to a close she makes one thing clear. This is not the end. Her journey in life is not yet complete. Who knows. Maybe in a few years will receive another memoir that tells about the final stage of her recovery over depression. I hope Elizabeth Wutzel continues to grow.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone that was a fan of Prozac Nation and just wants to know, what happens next?	2003-03-02
1218624:US	49200164	R236MOUIPYB80N	0440972329	405196041	A Ring of Endless Light (Austin Family)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another amazing work of fiction by Madeline	Vicky Austin is almost 16-years-old and her life is rather complicated. She is spending her summer at the beach, a place that many would seem to be paradise. Her grandfather is dying from Leukemia and no one knows how much time he has left. Also for once in her life, Vicky has gained the attention of not only one but three very different boys. One is Leo, an old friend of Vicky who is looking for more than friendship. Another is Zachary, a wild and ambitious teenager. Being around Zachary is a thrill, but sometimes it can be terrifying. And then she meets Adam, a new and intelligent boy with a passion for Marine Biology. When Adam introduces her to the dolphins he is working with she feels a connection with them, a wholeness that she has never experienced before. She can't really understand it but it's almost as if she can speak with them. In a summer where life is anything but simple Vicky must realize who she is and follow her heart to find out who she cares for the most.<br />This book has a lot of levels to it. On the surface is a story about life and death, romance and loss. Below that is another story about morals and the existence that there is something beyond us, possibly a God. Many people who read this book might be confused because of this. The reason for his is Disney channel recently created a made-for-TV movie based on this book. Now while it wasn't exactly a horrible made-for-TV movie it was a poor interpretation of the book. The book is not at all like the movie. The character of Vicky is a lot different. She is a strong character with insecurities like the rest of us. Strangely enough I found I could really relate to Vicky more than most other characters I read about, except I swear a lot more. This book is one of Madeline L'Engles best known (because of the movie and the Newbury Award) and one of her greatest. I would highly recommend it to younger readers, teenager readers, and some adult readers.	2003-02-22
1222158:US	49200164	R2RH1IMPA2KR0Z	0590396838	286261882	Shatterglass	Books	5	61	66	N	N	Tammy does it again!	Next to the street rat Briar, Trisana \\"Tris\\" Chandler has always been my favorite member of the circle. There's something about this fiery redheaded weather witch that just fascinates me. In this book Tamora Piece takes one of my favorite mages and gives her a great book to star in. Like every other book in the circle opens trilogy, Shatterglass deals with the members of the circle finding a mage student, and a crime. Street Magic had gangs. Cold Fire had an arsonist. Magic Steps has the mob. Shatterglass takes it a step father and introduces a serial killer.<br />Tris is staying in Tharios so her mage teacher, Niko Goldeye can take place in a conference on wind scrying. Tris enjoys Tharios and the glassmakers that live there but she hates the mistreatment of the prathmuni, the lowest class who deals with death and garbage. One day she stumbles upon a glass mage named Keth who, from an experience involving being stuck by lightning, has had his glass magic contaminated by lightning magic. Because of this he can no longer fulfill his job as a journeymen glassmaker. Tris realizes that he is a mage right away but Keth won't believe it, at first. Suddenly, as one of the few lightning mages, Tris finds herself as Keth, a grown man's, new teacher. <br />Meanwhile a series is murders is taking place in Tharios. The city's entertainers, the yakedasi, are being killed and then displayed in public places. This greatly hurts the Tharian culture which places so much on purity. Tris and Keth accidentally realize that with Keth's lighting and glass ability, he can really help find the killer. Unfortunately in order for him to do this he not only needs to get his new found magic under control, but get rid of his fear of lighting. Can Tris and Keth find the killer before he kills someone close to them?<br />I absolutely loved this book! Once again Tamora Pierce does not disappoint. Tris and Keth's story is suspenseful and a tab shade darker than the other books in the series. The setting of Tharios is very new and different. It's such a city that considers themselves to be democratic, but only if your int he higher classes does your opinion count for anything. I would highly recommend this book. In fact, the Circle Opens quartet is my favorite series by Tamora Piece so far. It's a shame that we'll have to wait a couple more years until we receive another Circle book. Until then, I can't wait until her new Tortall book, Trickster's Choice, comes out this fall! I hope you enjoyed this book as much as I did!	2003-02-19
1223567:US	49200164	R2X72J4BN89YRZ	0441010032	320267427	Hidden Truth (Truth, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Just as good as First Truth	Alissa never believed in magic, that was until magic drew her to the Hold. Now Alissa, and her close friend Strell, are no less than prisoners inside of the Hold until the winter ends. The current Keeper, Ballic, has kept them prisoner in hope that Strell will be trained in magic quickly enough for him to open the book &quot;First Truth&quot; before spring comes. But unfortunately for Ballic, and fortunately for everyone else, Strell has no gift in magic at all. In order to protect Alissa and the book &quot;First Truth&quot; they have managed to trick Ballic into thinking the Strell is the hold's latent keeper, when it's really Alissa. But they know their time is growing short. Ballic is planning on doing something very dangerous that requires the power of First Truth. If Alissa does not finish her secret training from the master mage, Useless, much more than their very lives will be in danger. <br />Hidden Truth is the sequel to First Truth in the second book in Dawn Cook's series. I was happy to see the characters from First Truth return and continue their development. The tender romance between Alissa and Strell that was barely addressed in First Truth now is finally addressed. The very small cast has also been expended to include the charming Warden Lodesh who competes for Alissa's affections. I can't wait to see what continues to happen after this. The way Dawn Cook finished the book makes me feel like she's not quite done with it. I'd love to hear more about Alissa, Strell, and Useless. I recommend this series to any fans of Tamora Pierce, Kristin Britain, and Robin McKinley. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did!	2003-02-18
1229398:US	49200164	R2EDKPLIKRAHNI	0886774144	912507140	The Oathbound (Vows and Honor, Book 1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The first of the Tarma and Kethry Books	Tarma is a shin'a'nin sword sworn. This means that she has dedicated her life to the goddess in hope of saving her clan, which was all but wiped out years before. Kethry is a noble born sorceress who, after fleeing a forced marriage, has become a blood sister to Tarma and is intent on helping her bring her clan to life again. Unfortunately this is easier said then done. Traveling as freelance mercenaries, Tarma and Kethry move from town to town in hope of work to help them make money. But when they find work it is far from simple. And when they can't find work trouble still seems to find them. Kethry carries the magical sword Need, that is made for a woman only to fight with and will never harm a woman. And when Need feels a woman in trouble it immediately rushed off to save her, dragging Kethry and her blood sister around behind them. What kind of adventures will they face?<br />Having already read seven other Valdemar books, I was very excited to pick this one up. Like many of Mercedes Lackey's other earlier books, it's filled with a real energy that just makes Tarma and Kethry's adventures just thrilling. The characters of Tarma and Kethry are strong and exciting. You can tell that they really have a strong bond with each other. I can't wait to read the other Vows and Honors book and the short story collection that goes along with it. The only problem I had with it has to do with the fact that although this is the fist Tarma and Kethry book, it starts very much int he middle of their story. The first Tarma and Kethry story is a short story in a separate anthology, one that I haven't read. Although Mercedes Lackey does a good job of explaining what happened in the past I would have liked it a lot more if I had actually got to read the story that happened before hand. It really sounds interesting. But beyond that I really liked this story and I know that any fans of Valdemar will love it too.	2003-02-13
1242044:US	49200164	RUKEUG7GG6ZS6	1553373588	473105471	Seeker, The (The Watcher?s Quest)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Emma's dangerous new game	I remember a couple years ago when I first picked up the book, The Watcher. My mother saw it in a library and thought that it would be a good book for me. Well, she was right and my pitiful amazon review is still up for it today. Seeker: Watcher's Quest, is not only the sequel to The Watcher but it is also the second book in The Watcher's Trilogy.  I'm not sure when the third book, Finder, comes out but I highly recommend that you read Seeker as soon as possible.<br />Emma is in training to become watcher, a protector of some sorts who watches over her obligations. Unfortunately since she was born on Earth and raised as a human she often lets her strong human emotions take control. Emma is facing a huge problem, the woman that she grew up believing was her mother, Leto, is dying of grief. Emma believes that if she can find the child that was taken from her mother and replaced with Summer, the young Queen who Leto still views as her own daughter, her mother will survive. Unfortunately to do that Emma must set out on a complicated quest set out by the evil game player Fergus. And she only has eight days to do it. Armed only with her wits, her friends, and whatever she may find on the way Emma is facing a daunting task, a task that she appears to be losing. Can Emma find her sister in time?<br />This book was very exciting with amazing new creatures and characters. One of my favorite new characters is Cill, the nervous little leaf creature who accidentally gets dragged on this quest. I was also happy to see a lot of character development happen with Emma as she learns more about the still strange new world around her. The book ties up a lot of loose ends from the end of The Watcher but also leaves a lot of things open that will be resolved in Finder. Margaret Buffie is a talented author who doesn't get the credit she deserves. If you've already read The Watcher I highly recommend picking this one up as well. If you haven't read the Watcher you could probably read thisbook as well, although it would completely spoil the ending to the first book in the trilogy. Still I highly recommend reading this book, regardless of your age. It's an exciting work of sci-fi/fantasy that you'll stay up way to late finishing.	2003-02-03
1246449:US	49200164	R2CKCCLZAQ0MCB	0590394681	981276424	Of Two Minds (Point Fantasy)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A fun kids fantasy	Sixteen year old Lenora is a headstrong, brave and rather spoiled princess who lives in a world where everyone has the power to make the things they imagine real. Unfortunately for Lenora, using this power is strictly forbidden, not that it stops her much. Shy and logical Prince Coren lives in a world where everyone has the powers to read everyone else's mind, a power that he would do anything to get rid of. When Lenora and Coren discover that they're arranged to be married, none of them are too happy about it. Lenora is furious. She doesn't see why she's supposed to marry this boring boy that she's never met before. In an attempt to run away she ends up throwing herself in a completely different world. Unfortunately she accidentally brings Coren around with her. Everything seems perfect in this world to Lenora, from the people to the dashing ruler, Hevak. Coren is a bit more cautious. Everything seems to perfect. It's this caution that ends up getting him in trouble. Now Lenora's the only one who can save him. That is if she can resist the persuasive powers of Hevek.<br />Although this book isn't all that advanced it's still an original and entertaining work of fantasy. The plot is fast paced, exciting, and easy to get addicted to. The different worlds are wonderful and very well described. The only problem I really see with it are the characters are awfully underdeveloped and flat. They don't seem to grow too much through the book. But since this is a series, that could be fixed in the next four books. I'm very interested in reading the other books in the quartet, the next one being More Minds. I would recommend this to younger readers and older readers looking for a fun escapism book.	2003-01-30
1250334:US	49200164	R3NJKDT2CUE2HC	0440208149	598774312	An Acceptable Time (Time Quartet, Bk. 5)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another fantastic work of time-travel fantasy	Polly O'Keefe is the daughter of Meg Murry and Calvin O'Keefe from Madeline L'Engle's famous Time Quartet. In this book she follows the family tradition of traveling back very far in time. Except this time it's 3,000 years before our time, to a time where druids and Native Americans populated the United States and life was much different from it is now.<br />Polly O'Keefe is looking foreword for a nice quiet visit to her grandparents house and it starts out like that. She spends her time talking with her genius grandparents and reconnecting with her old friend Zachary. Then strange things begin to happen. It all starts when she starts seeing people dressed in strange clothes. It continues further when she is magically transported back 3,000 years in time. Polly is shocked and doesn't know what to do. When she travels back to the present she discovers from her friend, who also happens to be a bishop, who these people really are and what she's involved in, a tesseract. Polly knows she must not contact these people from the past ever again if she wishes to live, unfortunately they have other ideas and the next time she travels back in time she won't be so lucky.<br />I haven't read a book by Madeline L'Engle since I first read the Time Quartet in 5th and 6th grade but I'm glad I picked up this one. Polly's travels back and forth through time are absolutely fascinating. The \\"People of the Wind\\" (the culture of Native Americans she encounters) is a fascinating race, one with it's strengths and flaws that is very different from people today, but just the same in some ways. I found out part way through the book that this is in fact part of a series. Unfortunately for me it's also the last book in the series. Although I usually hate to get into series like this I would actually recommend this series to people who have and have not read any Madeline L'Engle books. It's one of those kinds of books that you can read with or without really knowing the characters in the first place. I would recommend this series to anyone that's looking for something beyond stereotypical fantasy fiction. I look foreword to reading more tales of Polly O'Keefe.ace. I would recommend this series to anyone that's looking for something beyond stereotypical fantasy fiction. I look foreword to reading more tales of Polly O'Keefe.	2003-01-28
1252441:US	49200164	R2ZLWMTOIJIVKI	0743444329	477664928	Geisha: A Life	Books	5	10	14	N	N	An impressive biography	Mineko Iwasaki is one of the most famous modern geisha. She has met with famous people from Prince Charles to world famous film director Elia Kazan. Her life was neither simple nor without mistakes and this book tells it all. From her days as a little child to her retirement. When she was young she lived in a rather large family that had already sent away a few of their daughters to train to become geisha (or geiko). But when the leader of a geisha house sees Mineko she knows that Mineko was made to be a geisha. Over the next few years of her life she trains in dance and other arts of the geisha. Mineko seems to be taking a big risk in writing this book. Not only was the book Memoirs of a Geisha, loosely based on her life, she is so far the only geisha to ever publish her biography. You can tell from reading her book that not only is she a brave and a hard worker but she is also very proud, which can be a good thing and a bad thing. I'd recommend this book to people who want to know about what life is like as a Geisha. It clears up many of the mistakes that Arthur Golden has made in his writing about geisha. <br />If you're looking for an honest biography about geisha life, this book is for you.	2003-01-26
1253551:US	49200164	R13ICXDJ9YBYAF	0060280921	703135449	Abarat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Amazing art and an orginal story	Abarat is a fantasy story about a girl named Candy Quackenbush who lives in the most boring town in the United States, Chickentown, where everyone works in a chicken factory. She lives with her mother and her alcoholic abusive father. She's very bored with her life and can be classified as \\"a little morbid.\\" Her life changes forever when a bizarre looking and acting man called John Mischief brings her to Abarat, a place where there is an island for every hour of the day. Candy is fascinated by this new place but feels as if she's almost there before. She quickly learns that Abarat isn't a perfect place. Unknown to her  at the time the ruler of midnight, Carrion, knows that she has entered Abarat from the \\"hereafter\\" and he's very interested in her arrival. So interested in fact, that he'd do anything to capture her. Headstrong Candy is not going to let that happen.<br />Talented artist, Clive Barker, spent years putting together various paintings for his new series, The Books of Abarat. Abarat, the first tale, contains over a hundred of these pictures. The art is not only beautiful but very original. As Candy meets someone new a picture of them is usually inserted, and let me tell you the people she meets neither looks nor acts normal. Abarat is an amazing original place filled with colorful characters and places. The story line is a little weak at times, which can happen whenever anyone makes their debut in a genre, and the ending is a bit disappointing. It leaves only lose ends for the next book and although that can often happen in a series I would have appreciated if Clive Barker would have tied together some of it! Still I can't wait to read the next book of Abarat. Candy's adventures are very interesting indeed.	2003-01-25
1267560:US	49200164	R38DN8XNZN6OGQ	0060278269	962868136	Abhorsen (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The final book in one of the best fantasy trilogy in years	Lireal was once a second assistant librarian and the daughter of the clayr but she isn't anymore. She has found out that she is destined to be the Abhorsen, a necromancer who serves the charter in keeping the dead away from life, in a most inconvenient time. An evil necromancer named Hedge, with the help of another necromancer named Chlorr who ha been dead for years, has been working hard on bringing back an evil of epic proportions and it looks like he might suceed. And because Lireal is the only possible Abhorsen in the Old Kingdom, it's up to her to stop him from raising this evil. But she isn't alone. She is working with Prince Sameth of the Old Kingdom, a wallmaker; Mogget, a servant to the Abhorsen in cat shape who's history is much more dark than anyone would expect; and the Disreputable Dog, her dear friend. But even they cannot stop Hedge alone for Hedge is working with Nick, a friend of Sam's who is unknowingly assisting a great evil in more ways than one.<br />I loved this book. I was in a state of shock after reading it because it was this book. The character development is superb. Lireal continues to grow from the scared 14 year old we saw in Lireal and Sam finally accepts his responsibility as a Prince and a wallmaker. You finally find out all of the secrets that Garth Nix has been hinting about for the past two book. All the questions are answered including, how is Dog connected to the seven and, most importantly, who really is Mogget?  This is truly an astounding book. It has a sort of epic feel to it that the last two book lasts. The \\"big bad\\" has an aura around it that reminds me much of Sauron from Lord of the Rings or  from Philip Phullman's big bad from His Dark Materials.<br />Even though this is the final book in the trilogy I truly hope that Garth Nix decides on visiting the worlds of the Old Kingdom, even if it doesn't involve the characters in this book. Garth Nix has created what many fantasy authors often strive to do but fail, an original, believable world.	2003-01-14
1280224:US	49200164	R17ZPUJTH75OYR	0064408639	488122738	The Austere Academy (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny and dismal: The best book in the series!	The Baudelaire orphans, Violet, Sunny, and Klaus, are still on the run from the evil Count Olaf when Mr. Poe, a banker that isn't doing a very good job finding them appropriate legal guardians, sends them to Prufrock Academy. They quickly learn that this school is a very Austere Academy. Because they are orphan they are forced to live in an orphan shack, a tiny little tin hut with tiny human biting crabs and drippy fungus on the ceiling. Violet and Klaus must attend boring classes and since Sunny is too young to go to school, she is made an administrative assistant. To make matters worse Count Olaf is back in the disguise of a gym teacher and he has horrible schemes planned for them. The orphans cannot defeat him on their own but maybe with the help of a new pair of orphans they can. But don't think that this book has a happy ending.<br />This book is definitely the best so far of the series. Bigger story arcs are starting to develop and new characters have appeared. Strangely enough my favorite part of this book is a page in a half section where the author starts to tell the readers how he and his deceased wife Beatrice are connected to the evil Count Olaf. I can't wait to read the next book in this series. I recommend this book to all fans of a Series of Unfortunate Events.	2003-01-05
1281472:US	49200164	R1UCSZ4PJWOED5	0689849249	429244800	Tithe : A Modern Faerie Tale	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Holly Black: A new edgy YA novelist	Kaye does not live the average life of a sixteen-year-old. She has spent much of her adolesent life following her rock star mother, Ellen, and her band around the country. Everything is urned aroudn when Ellen's boyfriend tries to kill her after a show in Philly. Now she and Kaye are heading back towards New Jerey where Kaye hasn't been since first grade. Back then she was completely convinced that she had fairy friends, and everyone knew her and made fun of her for it. But now that she's returned she's finding out more about faerie that she could ever imagine. It all begins when she runs into a sexy blonde guy faerie and saves his life. She then learns from some of her old faerie friends that she is in fact, a faerie (a pixie to be more exact) and the faerie kind is being held under tyranny in the Unseelie court. Fortunately there is a way that Kaye can help the Unseelie court fall from control. Unfortunately it means offering up herself as human sacrifice. But fortunately if everything goes according to plan she won't have to die.<br />Unfortunately nothing goes according to plan.<br />Although the beginning is weak and the writing at some parts looks like it needs some work, Tithe proves to be a new edgy fantasy faerie tale with much scarier faeries. These faeries are not all sweet and innocent. They live in a world where morals are not quite what they are in the human world. Some of the characters remain sadly underdeveloped (for example Ellen) but the ones that take center stage really shine. Like many other first novels, this book, although not perfect, is enthralling. I could barely put it down. I hope the rumors are true and Holly Black is going to write a sequel to it. I would recommend this book to YA readers (and maybe a few adults reader too) that are looking for a great escape read of supernatural proportions. Sure, there is smoking, swearing, implied sex, and a little bit of drinking, but I don't think it's as shocking as other reviewers have seen it as. It's not for younger kids of course but YA readers can take it.	2003-01-04
1283376:US	49200164	R6QQ5N6LY82O7	0812570812	953091978	Rhapsody : Child of Blood	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A wonderful fantasy novel	Rhapsody is a singer of some talent. She is in training to become a Namer, a person who has the ability to affect people by using only their names and music, when her life is changed forever. When being chased by servants of an \\"old friend\\" she turns for help in two unlikely people. They are Grunthor a good-natured cannibalistic Firbolg and the Brother, a trained assassin who is unwillingly working for a dark evil. Of course she doesn't know this at the time. Unfortunately her powers of a Namer kick in and she finds herself unwillingly changing the name and more of one of her helpers. Now the people who were once her helpers have become more like her captors, guiding her in a long journey through the center of the earth itself. Unfortunately when they immerse they find themselves in a place much different from the land they grew up in, a different time and place entirely. The team tries to learn what they can about this new place and they soon learn that some of their dangerous problems have followed them.<br />I really enjoyed this book. Elizabeth Haydon is a talented author with descriptions that make you feel like your almost there. This fat little novel is a very impressive work, especially as a fantasy debut novel. Her world is original and for once the story line is not a photocopy of every other fantasy novel. Rhapsody is a great heroine. In the book, she is part Lirin, an almost elvish race. Although she is not that easy to relate to she is very well crafted and fascinating. Achmed and Grunthor are two other fascinating main characters that you can't help liking, despite their faults. My only real complaint is the character of Jo. It seems like whenever a novel picks up a teenage character they are either immature and near unbearable or act too old for their age. Jo was the former. Still, this didn't impair my enjoyment of this book at all. I couldn't bear giving it less than 5 stars! It was very good and at times it really made you think. I would highly recommend this book to fans of all sorts of fantasy, including young adult readers. I can't wait to read the next two novels in the trilogy, Prophecy and Destiny.	2003-01-03
1291727:US	49200164	R13Z79SHV497N7	0446609838	380697224	Stealing the Elf-King's Roses	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Another great work of sci-fi/fantasy by Diane Duane	Diane Duane is probably best known for her YA-but-could-also-appeal-to-adults series, Young Wizards. Those masterfully crafted books are filled with thrilling plots of fantasy with just enough sci-fi to make it really interesting, out-of-this-world creatures, and strong heroes and heroines. Although Stealing the Elf-King's Roses is more of a sci-fi trip than a fantasy one, it doesn't disappoint.<br />Our hero is Lanthanomancer Lee Enfield and her partner Gelert who is a wolf-like Madrin. Lee's job is to uphold justice, both in court and at crime scenes. She has the gift of seeing what happened at crime scenes and although she cannot always find all the answers she certainly helps the police find the killer. But when a famous and wealthy Elf is murdered Lee finds herself involved in a very complex case when it looks like the murderer just randomly vanished into thin air, which is of course impossible. To solve this ever growing mystery Lee and Gelert must travel to Alfheim, the elfin world that could not be anymore different from ours. There everything is beautiful, the secretive immortals elves, and their surroundings.  She has been sent there by a mysterious figure that simply tells her to steal the Elf-Kings roses, which are only known as myths. Still something is wrong. The world isn't the way it seems. Lee knows she must solve this mystery. But never in her wildest dream could she suspect what the out come could be.<br />I was impressed by this book. Although it doesn't move quite as smoothly and quickly as her Young Wizards, and New York City Cats books do, the book is still very enjoyable. I was a bit worried by the fact that elves are involved, considering most people's view of elves seem to be Tolkien rip-offs. It was not the case here. the elves are both familiar and new. The rest of the characters are extremely well crafted as well. Diane Duane proves herself once again to be a talented author. I hope to see more solo works from her in the future. I recommend this book to all fans of the author.	2002-12-27
1293273:US	49200164	R34B10XHB9CPM6	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An entertaining dark children's fantasy	It's easy to see why Coraline is annoyed with her life. Her parents are dull and seem to want her to be just as dull. Her neighbors, including two bizarre retired actresses and an elderly man who seems to think that he can train his mice to perform in a band. She just moved into a new flat with twenty-one windows and fourteen doors. Thirteen of the doors open, and the other one is locked. When Coraline's mother first opens the door all Coraline can see is a brick wall but when Coraline goes exploring and opens the door by herself she enters a dark corridor that takes her to a place both familiar and strange. The place looks just like her flat, but it's different. She has other parents in there that are just lie her regular parents, but their not. Cats talk to people and her neighbors put on shows for audiences filled with dogs. Coraline is fascinated by this new place but soon learns of it's danger. Her not-quit parents want her to stay there forever and change her. She runs away quickly but things are not that simple. Now her parents are missing and Coraline has to play a dangerous game to save their lives, and her life too.<br />Like many books before it Neil Gaiman tells a story about strange new worlds that can exists behind simple objects. The story is dark, humorous, and moves quite quickly, making it a good choice for more reluctant young readers who refuse to read anything but Harry Potter. It's filled with fascinating and frankly creepy illustrations by the talented artist Dave McKean. The only problem I have with this story is it's been done before and the writing, although it attempts to be dark and dangerous, can be a bit too fluffy at times. Still this book is a quick entertaining read that ...	2002-12-26
1312130:US	49200164	RXI8C5GXD58FE	0886775639	244178142	Winds of Change (The Mage Winds, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Elspeth and Darkwind's journey continues	In Valdemar, Princess Elspeth is the heir to the throne and a herald, but in K'Sheyna Vale, she's just another mage in training. After becoming members of the Hawkbrothers, Elspeth and the ex-theif Skif part ways momentarily to complete their own tasks. Elspeth is beginning to learn magic, and it's becoming obvious from the start that she has it in spades. Her teacher, Darkwind, finds himself facing the challenge of teaching a slightly uppity (and not to mention attractive) woman while relearning much of the magic he swore never to use again. <br />Meanwhile Skif and Wintermoon, Darkwind's brother, start too look for Nyara, the changechild of whom Skif is still quite smitten with. Nyara is also the newest wielder of the sword Need. It appears that Need is the only one that can help her become independent of her father, the cruel adept, Morenlithe Falconsbane. who is planning on striking again soon. He will stop at nothing from stealing the power of the Vale's heartsone. Elspeth, Darkwind, and the other mages of K'Sheyna Vale know they must stop him but they know that he's impossible to defeat alone.<br />This book was just as good, if not better that Wind of Fate. The first book in the trilogy was merely warming us up for the thrills you'll find in this one. There are many good parts about this book. Me being a closet hopeless romantic, love to watch the mere attraction between Darkwind and Elspeth grow into something possible more. I can't wait to see what happens to them in the next book. The character Nyara, who almost annoyed me through certain parts of the first book, really grows in leaps and bounds in this one. She's now one of my newest favorite characters. I'm also pleased to see Elspeth calm down a bit in this one. Her character is also turning out wonderfully. This is an amazing book filled with many twists and turns and memorable scenes. If you've read the first book I highly recommend reading this one as well.	2002-12-09
1323820:US	49200164	R265PUY94312SA	0441007570	549411872	The Sword, the Ring, and the Chalice: The Ring (Sword, Ring, and Chalice)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The amazing trilogy continues...	In, The Sword, we were introduced to many characters including; Gavril, the spoiled prince with dark ambitions; Alexeika, the strong princesses with hopes and dreams to overthrow an evil usurper King; Pheresa, the tentative bride-to-be of prince Gavril who is not used to courtly life; and Dain, the part eldin boy destined to things greater than he could ever imagine. The second thrilling, but flawed, book picks up pretty much exactly where The Sword Left off.<br />Dain is now the Chevards adoptive son, although the adoption won't be considered legal until Dain gets permission from the King. To fulfill this quest Dain travels to the city with the spoiled Prince Gavril and his new and beloved farther. Unfortunately tragedy strikes on the way to the castle and Dain realizes that only he can meet the King and ask for his signature. Dain travels to the castle and immediately finds himself facing culture shock. Life in the city is not the same as his simple country life. People are both fascinated and fearful because of his eldin blood and alien ways. Just when Dain thinks he may eventually fit into court and be able to handle life as a chevard, he gets a message in the form of a dream. This one is from his real father, the former half-eldin King of Nether whose thrown was usurped by his own brother and Dain's uncle. Dain now knows that he is Faldain, and it's his duty to reclaim his throne. Unfortunately it's not that easy.<br />Meanwhile Princess and warrior Alexeika's only hope for a rebellion is shattered when her camp is attacked by nonkind. She is kidnapped and tortured as a prisoner to the nonkind. She knows she must escape. More than her own life depends on it. At court Princess Pheresa faces a much different trouble. Princess Gavril is her betrothed but it appears he'll never officially propose to her. And Prince Gavril ... he's up to something dark and dangerous that he could never really control.<br />I actually enjoyed this a little more than the last book butI still couldn't give it a 5 star rating. It's more of a 4.5 star rating than anything. The book was great, the characters are developing quite nicely, and the plot is surprisingly original for such a common story line. The only thing I have a problem is that the book is almost unbalanced. You hear a lot about Dain's story but not so much about everyone else. Gavril gets his fair share of screen time but Alexeika, who is supposed to be the big female hero of the series, kind of disappears part way through the book. Pheresa gets a very small part considering she is a very important character. That can all be amended though in the final book of the series, The Chalice. I can't wait to get my hands on it and finish this entertaining trilogy.	2002-11-29
1325955:US	49200164	R3PHIO9XH3LKYX	0441004997	178447398	Hero and the Crown	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A thrilling fantasy novel by Robin McKinley	Aerin is the King's daughter, first sol to Damar, but the country fears her. Everyone gossips about her mother, the witchwoman who cast a spell on the king to make him fall in love with her. When she gave birth to an heir, she died from shame when learning it was a girl, and therefore could not inherit the kingdom. As a result of the Aerin has grown up wild, learning how to ride and fight. She dreams of becoming a fierce dragon killer, not a proper lady who goes to court. Strangely enough after a strange twist of events she gets a chance to make her dream come true. But is she ready for this challenge? Damar is facing another challenge. They are being attacked by a northern country with strange demon-magic that the country of Damar is not aware of. Through Aerin's many adventures she realizes that her worst enemy is closer to her than she had ever imagined. The only way she can defeat him and save her country is by finding the legendary Hero's crown. Will she be able to do this? Or will she be killed before then?<br />After reading Beauty, The Outlaws of Sherwood, and the Blue Sword, I was excited about reading another work by the talented author, Robin McKinley. This book did not leave me disappointed. It's a thrilling medieval fantasy tale with non stop action and magic. The characters are absolutely amazing. Aerin is a wonderful hero that you can't help relating to. I found myself liking this book even more than The Blue Sword, another story of Damar, from a much different time. The only thing that disappointed me was Aerin's choice on love. But even that didn't impair my enjoyment that much. I highly recommend this book to any fans of Robin McKinley's other works or authors such as Tamora Pierce and Diane Wynne Jones.	2002-11-27
1328184:US	49200164	R3HSIKMKCUSIK1	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An imaginative and thrilling novel	What's this? Nancy's reading a Sci fi book? Yes, Strangely enough it's true. Sci fi has never been my favorite type of book but I actually really enjoyed this one. It tells the story of Andrew &quot;Ender&quot; Wiggum. Ender lives in a futuristic world where humanity has already been ravaged twice by an alien race called the Buggers. To prepare for the next attack they start training commanders from a very early age. So when Ender reaches the age that most of us were still eating paste and finger-painting, he's sent away to Battle School. Ender hates Battle school. Because of his superior intellect he is forced to be separated from all of the other students. He is teased and made fun of. But once he gets used to the school he finds out that he not only enjoys the battle games that the students are forced to play, he's talented. So talented that he surpasses all of his peers easily. But once he gets comfortable everything is taken away from him. Suddenly things are not so fun anymore. And Ender discovers that his destiny is much more complicated than he thinks.<br />People have been recommending this book to me ever since started getting into fantasy but I've always been iffy about it considering I'm not into Sci fi at all. But when about the 6th person recommended it to me, I knew I had to read it. I'm glad I did. Ender's story, although rarely realistic, is absolutely fascinating. The characters are complex and interesting. My personal favorite character is Ender's sister Valentine. I am very interested in reading more about Ender, Peter, Valentine, and the other characters from this book. I'll probably read the rest of the series. Maybe someone could give one to me for Christmas (hint hint). I recommend this book to pretty much everyone into fantasy or sci-fi.	2002-11-25
1331388:US	49200164	R2P7M5BCCNTWYO	0312869568	476667016	Ashling (Obernewtyn Chronicles, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wow....	When Elspeth's friend Brydda and his fellow rebels seem to be pushing for war against the council, many of the misfits feel that they should be joining in the fighting. After all the council has been hunting people with misfit talents and burning them at the stakes for years. So when Maryon, a member of the futureteller guild, sees Elspeth traveling to Sutrium, where the rebels are stationed, Elspeth and Rushton realize that this is the time to strike. Elspeth has another task on her hand, returning a gypsy woman to her people. Elspeth soon realizes that neither of these tasks will be solved easily. The gypsy woman is dying, and Elspeth doesn't know where to find her people. Worse yet is the rebels. Very few of them are willing to accept misfits with powers as their allies. It looks like the only way that they can be convinced is if the misfits prove themselves, a very dangerous task indeed.<br />I absolutely loved this book. After The Farseekers, I didn't think that the series could get much better. I was wrong. Not only is Ashling the longest book in the series so far but it's defiantly the best. Characters that were introduced in the last two books have really grown and developed into different people completely. The most obvious is Domick, the coercer who's job at the council has turned him cold and heartless to everyone, even his own bondmate. The plot is fast paced and exciting. There is rarely a dull moment in this 450+ page wonder. Another perk is the new places that your introduced to. Not only Sutrium but in another country entirely (read the book if you want to find out). Amazing revelations are made about the beforetimers that are strikingly prophetic to our own world. Isobelle Carmody ends up telling an amazing fantasy story while weaving in serious question about the lives we live ourselves.	2002-11-22
1337811:US	49200164	RUN9DBY1KD15M	0812584236	783147561	The Farseekers: The Obernewtyn Chronicles - Book Two (The Obernewtyn Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Better than the last	It has been a couple years since Elspeth first came to Obernewtyn and much has changed. The school is now run by the misfits who used to consider the castle to be a prison. They are members of guilds, which guild depends on their strongest gift, and decide how things are going in the castle. Elspeth is a guildmistress and has a lot of say with the guilds. Outside of Obernewtyn little has changed. The land is controlled by the herder religion and the harsh government that wants to rid the world of Misfits. So that's why it's a terrible thing when the misfits learn that people from the government are becoming suspicious of Obernewtyn, their only safe haven.<br />When Elspeth has a premonition that she needs to find a powerful misfit far to the South she knows she needs to convince, Rushton, the master of Obernewtyn to let her go. She sets off with a team of misfits of every guild including plucky newcomer, Jif, and a horse that hates people. Unfortunately their journey proves to be more perilous than the small teams of misfits could ever imagine. Amazing and terrible things happen including being captured more than once, facing death, meeting a couple new friends, and seeing a couple old ones. Elspeth has a big challenge in front of her.<br />The Farseekers, the second book in the Obernewtyn chronicles, proves to be an even better book than the first one, Obernewtyn, the first book in the series. The book suspenseful with a new surprise around every twist and bend. It has more magic than the last book and different kinds of magic. It's fun to see how each character has grown from the last book. Everyone seems to get smarter as they get older. And it's fun to watch some romance blossom between unlikely characters. I highly recommend this book to fans of fantasy authors such as Mindy L. Klasky, Mercedes Lackey, and Tamora Pierce. I can't wait to read the third book in the series Ashling, which is currently sitting on my bookshelf and waiting to be read.	2002-11-16
1339929:US	49200164	R2ECPZY2HOGPXL	0886775167	19357260	Winds of Fate (The Mage Winds, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Elspeth's Quest	Elspeth is not only a full-fledged herald, but the heir to the throne of Valdemar. And as Valdemar faces a tragic looking war with King Ancar from the northern country Hardorn. Unfortunately Ancar has many mages working for him, powerful ones, while Valdemar's gifted heralds are the only one with slightly smaller gifts. Elspeth realizes that she is the only one that can go out and find a mage for Valdemar. Elspeth isn't alone though. She travels with her good friend Skif and her teacher Kerowyn's mysterious protective sword called need. Things start to get complicated when Skif's feelings become more than just friendly towards Elspeth and the sword proves to have a mind of it's own. Elspeth also knows that her biggest problem will be finding the right mage. For the public to trust this mage, the mage must also be a herald, and a herald mage has not existed since the legendary Vanyel who died centuries ago. <br />Far from Valdemar in K'Sheyna Vale lives the Hawkbrothers who are facing a great ordeal. Not too long ago the heartstone, a place of immense power, was destroyed, ruining all of their lives in the process. No one was scared as deeply as Darkwind though. Darkwind is a former mage who gave up every trace of magic he had after seeing the heartstone destroyed and the death of his mother. Darkwind now serves as a guard but his live gets more complicated when he runs into a strange and beautiful girl, a changechild who has deadly connections to a powerful mage who has connections to the Hawkbrothers. What will happen when Elspeth and Darkwind meet?<br />Mercedes Lackey once again proves to be one of the stronger modern writers in the fantasy community. Her characters are flawed and well written. It's amazing to see how much Elspeth has grown from simply \\"the brat,\\" to awkward teenager, and now to strong leader and herald. Darkwind is a strong character you can't help feeling sorry for. The story line is different from the Heralds of Valdemar Trilogy and By the Sword, because of it's concentration on mages. In the beginning of the books the P. O. V.  alternates between the ex-mage Darkwind, and the herald princess Elspeth with a few interludes in between. By the end of the book the two have met. The ending is very suspenseful and makes me itch for the second book in the trilogy. I highly recommend this to Mercedes Lackey fans.	2002-11-14
1343280:US	49200164	R157FGK6HWDZVU	0451458656	63095133	Season of Sacrifice	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another suspenseful work of fantasy from Mindy Klasky	Mindy L. Klasky is probably one of the most under appreciated new fantasy writers out there today. She is most known for her series, entitled The Glasswrights Saga, which tells of the life of Rani Trader, a merchant towards guild member whose life is changed forever when she witnesses the murder of a famous prince. Season of Sacrifice is actually a solo novel with no connection to the Rani Trader stories. Although it is not as strong as some of Mindy's most recent work it is a very good work of fantasy. Before I get really into the analysis, he's a little info on the book.<br />Season of Sacrifice tells the story of a group of very strong characters. Alana Woodsinger is the Woodsinger at the Headland of the Slaughter (a somewhat misleading name for a town). As the Woodsinger she is the People's connection to the Tree, a tree who is the people's connection to their gods, the guardians. When two children are kidnapped by a mysterious visitor the town leaders know that they must be saved. They send out a soldier, a tracker, and a healer to track down the twins and their kidnappers. Alana si forced to stay home although she has connection to the twins and the rescuers through the tree. Unfortunately by the time they reach the twins they don't want to be saved. They quickly uncover a sinister plot that involves the lives of the twins, and the throne to the kingdom itself.<br />As I said before this book has many good points and a couple of not so good. The story is suspenseful and the magic is unique. Mindy L. Klasky has so far not shown any magic in her novels before and when she finally shows it in Seasons of Sacrifice, it is a smaller, less showy magic. A couple error's I found was the characters are a bit too similar to some of the characters seen in the glasswrights Saga. Alana is a lot like Rani. Many other minor characters, such as the soldier Brent, represent a certain other soldier seen in The Glasswrights Apprentice. I also agree with the reviewer who remarkedon the children. They irritated me to no end. But beyond that it was a good solid novel. I can't wait to see what Mindy L. Klasky comes up with next!	2002-11-12
1347580:US	49200164	R3W3AIJY67Z4N5	0812584228	331782180	Obernewtyn (The Obernewtyn Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The start of a great fantasy series	In a distant future very unlike the present we live in, earth has gone through a nuclear holocaust called the \\"Great White\\" and as a result the world knows very little about machines and virtually nothing about modern technology. Elspeth lives in this world as an orphan, children who no one cares about and are often used for cheap labor in handling the radioactive substances that are a result of the Great White. But Elspeth has a secret, she is a Misfit, a person with powers that are rejected by the rest of the society. She knows that if anyone tells out her life and the lives of those near her could be in great danger. But one day her worse fears come true. They find out about her Misfit status and send her away to Obernewtyn, a mysterious place where Misfits work hard to become normal. A place where strange experiments take place to make these people normal. Elspeth doesn't know what to expect or who to trust. She might be the only one who can save the place that has forced to become her new home.<br />I became interested in this book when I found out about it on an online discussion group called Sheros Central. People who were avid fans of Tamora Piece, loved it. And it was because of their raving reviews that put me on a long search to find this book. I'm glad I did. Although I'm not usually into Sci-fi, this books is a different kind of sci fi. It's more like a fantasy book with kind of a feel you'd get from a book like \\"The Giver'\\" or \\"Anthem.\\" Although it started out a bit slow and it didn't get into some parts of the story as much as I liked (there was a lot of summary) I couldn't help getting drawn into this book. I'm looking foreword to reading the rest of the series (when I can actually find it!) I recommend this book to all ages, from adolescents to adults.	2002-11-08
1370875:US	49200164	R2FZBW2SQOL1FR	074342851X	919430360	Number 6 Fumbles	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A decent novel	Rebecca \\"Back\\" Lowe. Perfectionist. College Student. Party Girl. Heavy Drinker. Beck knows she doesn't have a perfect life but she has a lot of fun. As a Sophomore in U-Penn Beck goes to all the frat parties, and has visited all of the bars in town with the help of her fake ID. Her grades are near perfect because of her amazing ability to write amazing papers under maximum pressure. But everything changes the day she sees Number 6, a college football player, fumble the ball at a football game. Her life is suddenly different. She's questioning everything that she knows and does. Nothing makes sense anymore, the guys she flirts with, the bars she drinks at, her friends... Beck knows she needs to get her life back together but she doesn't know how.<br />Number 6 fumbles is an entertaining and honest book about college life. But it's not perfect. The main characters are very real but everyone else seems to be flimsy, more like extras in a movie than real characters. The plot is flimsy and although interesting at times at other it seems like the author wants to see how much she can shock us. There isn't even a real ending. The plot isn't really resolved and the characters just go on with their lives. In some books that would work but it this one it seems kind of abrupt. I would recommend this book to some people but not necessarily to people that are looking for a piece of fiction that's moving or meaningful. In the past MTV has put out many books that I would recommend over this such as The Perks of Being a Wallflower. Still this book is decent and if you accept it for what it is, you'll probably enjoy it.	2002-10-19
1383728:US	49200164	RX9CJIG3UDFY8	0765302896	531435857	A School for Sorcery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An entertaing new fantasy novel	It seems that ever since JK Rowling's fantastic Harry Potter series hit the shelves, we have received book after book of child and teen fantasy novels. It seems that everyone is trying to out-Potter each other. In some cases these \\"novels\\" can turn out to be embarrassingly bad. Fortunately this is not the case. A School for Sorcery by E. Rose Sabin is a thrilling novel about what happened if Harry Potter was female, a few years older, and in a completely different world.<br />Tria Tesserell is a 16-year-old farmer's daughter who has always known that she had had some magic gifts. Unfortunately, because of her close minded father, she has been forced to keep her powers hidden. But when she gets accepted to the Lesley Simonton School for the Magically Gifted she is thrilled. She won't have to keep her powers hidden any longer. But her enthusiasm is diminished when she actually gets to the campus. The buildings are crumbling, the hallway seems to be covered in a thick layer of dust and grime, and the food is old and stale. Tria gets in trouble right away when one of her powers she never knew she possessed works without her even knowing it. To top it off Tria's new roommate is a witch in more ways than one. Tria feels as if she can never learn to love this school. And just when she start's getting used to it and things start looking up a darker more sinister evil takes into play. Oryon, a second year student, has summoned an evil source that has kidnapped two of Tria's fellow students and friends. It looks like Tria is the only one that can save them, but she doesn't even know how.<br />I was unsure whether to give this book 4 stars of 5. There were many good qualities. The author manages to take a familiar scene (a magic school) and take it in a completely different direction. The characters are amusing and sometimes scary. And the emphasis in this book is more on ethical magic than breaking the rules for the greater good (like in Harry Potter). Still there are a few plot holes. Because there are so many characters many of them get introduced and seem like they will become large parts in the books. Instead they merely vanish about halfway through the book. But beyond that this book is great. I hope to see more works of fantasy from E. Rose Sabin, maybe in this world. I recommend it to fans of JK Rowling and Diane Wynne Jones.	2002-10-08
1386661:US	49200164	R3NN28RAD4JWVV	0152045627	408310979	A Wizard Alone: The Sixth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Kit and Nita's next adventure is confusing to say the least	The 6th book in the Young Wizards series is short but it doesn't disappoint. As Nita recovers from the death of her mother, Kit takes center stage in this thrilling book. Kit has never really been sent out on a mission, problems usually come to him. But when Tom and Carl, the local Senior Advisors, ask him if he wants to look for someone, he accepts it, thinking it to be no big deal. Unfortunately Kit finds that this particular person it very hard to find. Darryl is an autistic boy who has spent the past 3 months on his ordeal, a difficult process that usually only takes a few days. When Kit \\"finds\\" Darryl he finds out quickly that he's not really there. The only way to find him is, with the help of his dog Ponch, to enter Darryl's mind, a very dangerous place. Kit quickly finds out that the reason Darryl is having so much trouble has to do with the Lone Power itself. If only Kit could talk to him.<br />At the same time, Nita, is recovering from the death of her mother. Her house is strangely quiet with just her wizard sister and her father to take care of them. As she tries to get back to normal life she finds her dreams are being haunted by some very strange creatures in deed, robots, clowns and knight. Nita has no idea why these creatures are in her dreams but she soon realizes that they need help, her help. And if she helps them, she might be able to help Kit.<br />Wizard Alone is not only an exciting edition to the Young Wizards series but it has the most character development out of any of the books in the series. I won't give anything away but Kit and Nita, like in the last book, do spend a lot of time apart. That gives us a chance to look at their individual personalities more than ever before. Diane Duane does a wonderful job of facing things that we don't usually see in fantasy novels, such as autism. I actually know more about autism now than ever before from reading this. <br />Ms. Duane also deals very well with Nita's recovery from her mother death. Most books tend to either have the characters wallow over the pain they feel with long passages involving weeping over the sight of their gravestone (such an overdone scene)! or just get over it far too quickly like it never happened. Ms. Duane does neither. She focuses more on the recovery than the pain and how it has changed Nita and her family.<br />Although this book isn't quite as good as Wizards Dilemma, the best book in the series, it's still one of the better ones. It was great to see Kit as the main character for once. The book is also filled with some really great humor. You'll never look at an egg beater the same way again! I highly recommend to any fans of this series, pick up this book. It's really amazing. I can't wait until the 7th book, A Wizards Holiday, comes out in about a year. ...Dai Sitho!	2002-10-06
1387543:US	49200164	R165CBTYLP7DV4	0064473783	826239452	You Don't Know Me	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An orginal story	Do you know that boy or girl in your class that seems to always be alone. He might be a bit quiet. He might talk strange. He might have very few friends. He might be in band. He might show up to school with bruises on his face but never really explains them because no one really cares about him. You may not even know his name. In fact you don't even know him. But you should because one day he might surprise you. This is a story about this person that you don't know.<br />John spends his life half hidden in the shadows. He goes to an anti-school, a place that claims to be a school but no one is really learns anything anyway. He has a teacher named Mrs. Gabriel that he calls Mrs. Moonface that doesn't want to be there. His band teacher wants to reach out and \\"help\\" him. He has an insane crush on a girl he calls Glory Hallelujah and a tuba that is really a bullfrog pretending to be a tuba. His mother is dating a man who is not his father who beats him. His father (\\"the man who named me after a toilet\\") left John years ago.<br />If your in the mood for a moving story about someone you've never really encountered before this is for you. Although John may seem strange at first you will lean that he is incredibly easy to relate to and most of the stuff he writes about is laugh out loud funny. Although he write s and talks in a way that is not very real, the world he lives in is the same world that we have all lived through freshman year of high school. David Klass has written a story that is both moving and funny at the same time, both touching and mysterious. This is the kind of book you'll be reading late into the night (I did!) I highly recommend it to fans of YA fiction with substance.	2002-10-05
1391284:US	49200164	R1V5WD2Q72ID35	0399237232	800583493	Triss: A Tale From Redwall	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A spectacular new edition to the Redwall Saga	Throughout the past 15 books of Redwall we have seen a diverse amount of warriors pick up Martin's great sword. Some of them were mince, some were squirrels, some where otters. Some inherited the sword and some received it by what seemed like fate. They only had one thing in common. They were all MALE. In Triss, for the first time we get to see a female warrior of Redwall and a talented one at that.<br />Triss tells 3 stories that eventually weave into each other. Far to the North live three slaves, Triss, Welfro and Shogg, who somehow escape from the clutches of the cruel King Aragnu and his daughter the evil Princess Kudra. As they travel away in a stolen ship they realize that eventually they will have to return home to save their friends, but not until they have saved themselves. To the South in Salamandastron Sagax, a young badger Lord sets out to sea with his two close friends the gluttonous hare Scarum and the clever otter Kroova, in search of adventure. They end up getting much more than they bargained for. And to the East in the legendary Redwall Abbey, both the young and the old struggle to solve some tricky riddles that may hold the key to the location of the old and forgotten Brockhall.<br />Just like the past 14 Redwall books Triss is filled with adventure, humor, action, and mystery. But Triss is no ordinary Redwall book. Since it takes place generations after Taggerung we have a whole new cast of interesting charecters to learn about. my favorites are Kroova the otter and the warriormaid Triss herself. The Humor in Triss is far the best we've ever seen in any Redwall book. Don't believe me? Well, wait until you read the section about Pluggs' tail! That made me giggle. People who criticized Taggerung for uninteresting riddles will be pleasantly surprise in Brian Jacques puzzling new inventions that take a bit of thought.<br />A do have a couple criticisms though. One is the abundance of songs. I realize that they're important to Scarum's character butenough already! It seems like Mr. Jacques sticks in songs jsut to take up space at times. Another one is I would have liked to see Mr. Jacques go into more detail about a couple events. One being the meeting and greeting of Triss's group to Sagax's groups, the other being about Triss seeing the sword of Martin for the first time. Still despite these faults Brian Jacques delivers one of the greatest books in the series. Triss joins the rank of Mariel and Songbreeze Swifteye as one of the most likable heroines ever seen in this series. Scarum is a great character too.<br />I could go on for hours just talking about this book it was that good but I'll spare you my blabbering and let you decide for yourself. Fans of Redwall rejoice. Triss proves that Brian Jacques still has a couple of good yarns still left in him.	2002-10-01
1402119:US	49200164	RE93SNOFOKFGW	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An amazing book about growing up in foster care	At 13, Astrid does not live a normal life. Her mother is a famous poet that pays very little attention to her. Still Astrid loves her mother and wants to be just like her. But when her mother is put in prison for killing her ex-boyfriend, Astrid is sent away. The book chronicles the next several years of her life when she goes through a series of foster homes. The religious recovering alcoholic, Starr and her children, the racist Marvel, the kind by fragile Claire, and many more. Throughout these homes Astrid makes mistakes that she may never recover from, and goes through places where people treat her terribly. But with every decision she makes she grows as a person, for better and for worse. As Astrid lives the life of a foster child, she knows that her life will never be the same again.<br />Although I've read several Oprah's books before, I've liked very few of then, and none of them have affected me as profoundly as White Oleander. Reading this book has really made me appreciate the middle class life I led. There were points in this book where I felt so bad for Astrid that I almost cried (and that doesn't happen often to me!). Janet Filtch is an amazing author who uses some of the best description that I've ever seen in a novel. Unlike other readers I wasn't upset in the fact that she didn't go into great detail over Barry's murder, it just seemed right the way she wrote it. I highly recommend this to teenagers and adults alike. If your in the mood for a moving story about growing up in some horrible conditions, this book is for you. I highly recommend it!	2002-09-21
1402398:US	49200164	R1C41ROEO97ZN4	0441007023	632655694	Sword, Ring, and Chalice: The Sword	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An good looking new series	Before King Tobesjinean knows it, he is betrayed. His brother has usurped the floor, his wife has been struck with disease, the holy items that his religion worships have been stolen and replaced by false idols, and his kind, the eldin are wanted dead in his own country. The King is shocked but once he manages to calm down he knows he must do something to protect his two children, the prince and princess but in saving them he may lose his life. Years later Dain, is an eldin who lives in the forest with his sister. After the death of his sister and guardian Dain doesn't know where to go. That is, until he almost is killed by the crown prince and heir to the thrown, Prince Gavril. His life is saved by a mysterious man, who through later circumstances, he ends up living in. But no matter how hard he tries, Dain knows that he is not only not wanted, but hated by everyone around him for having eldin blood in his veins. But Dain will soon learn that he has more in his veins than just eldin blood, a more powerful blood.<br />There are many flaws in this book. The heroine who we see on the cover doesn't come into play into the end of the book, it took me forever to get into it (considering the first 100 pages of this book could have been summed up in a quater of the length), and it's predictable. But still I enjoyed it. The main characters were very well crafted (especially Dain, Gavril and Alexida) I just wish I got to see more of some of them. I'll read the rest of the books in the series because I'm eager to see what happens. I recommend this easy reading book to fans of fantasy that are looking for something new. I can't wait to see what happens next!	2002-09-21
1402694:US	49200164	R1B3F3QATWK9VG	0618104399	461371253	Better Than Running at Night	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A new orginal YA novel	Ellie Yelinsky is away from home for the first time in her life at art school in New England. She wants to concentrate on improving her art, all which show a grim out look on life, but before she can even start classes her usually slow and isolated life gets changed. She dances with the devil at a costume party, and makes out with him as well. She later learns the devil's name is Nate and as she gets to know him she has a hard time finding out if he's more of a devil or an Angel. Her father thinks the only way he can bond with her is to give her the things he enjoyed as a teenager, mostly meaning drugs. The classes Ellie starts are much different from she had ever expected. Her teacher only speaks in one tone, yell, and he has her focusing on things she doesn't think are important. But as it turns out her teacher may be the only one that can teach her about art, and maybe something more than that.<br />This is the only book that's ever inspired me to join a school club, art club that is. If your in the mood for an original YA novel that can be read by adults as well, this is for you. The author, Hillary Frank, writes in a very artistic manner. She doesn't tend to spell everything out for you but trusts the intelligence of the reader to figure some things out for themselves. The cast of characters manages to be original while realistic at the same time. Whether it's the loud and obnoxious art teacher, the shy stoner Sam, or the sometimes good, sometimes evil Nate. This is a great book for people that are fans of books such as Sloppy Firsts and Love and other Four Letter Words.	2002-09-20
1416767:US	49200164	R33DAZDL68XKW5	0763618470	339960894	Sorceress	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Tht Thrilling sequel to Witch Child	Agnes, a Canadian Indian, is spending her time in college in Boston when she runs across a published diary of a girl that was an accused Salem witch. The Book is called Witch Child. Agnes can't get over the similarities from the book to one of her ancestors, a white woman that lived with the Indians. Combine that with the fact that she is beginning to have mysterious visions from the past, and Agnes realizes that something big is about to happen. She contacts the woman named Alison who is mentioned in the back of the book Witch child, a woman who is looking for information about Mary. Alison is eager to find info on Mary and will help Agnes in any way that she can. This sends Agnes away from school back home, where she is sent on a vision quest to find out what happened to Mary.<br />Although the books Witch Child, and Sorceress are fictional novels, Celia Rees makes you almost believe that every thing is real. It's thrilling to find out what happened to Mary for pretty much the rest of her life, and Agnes is a very strong and amiable character. Another great thing about this book is the appendixes in the back. It's filled with diary entries and letters written by the characters in Witch Child whom we don't unfortunately don't see anything of them in the book. Another thing that was great to see is the representations of Native Americans in not a negative light, but in a realistic one. If your a fan of great historical fiction, especially one that realistically shows Native Americans, I highly recommend this to you.	2002-09-07
1421263:US	49200164	R3MJXVIGB4K0TL	0886774004	356240928	Arrow's Fall (The Heralds of Valdemar, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The final book in the Heralds of Valdemar	Talia has just returned from her year and a half of on field training with her now close friend and fellow herald, Kris, only to see her brief happiness come crashing down. Valdemar is suffering greatly because of the war against their enemy, Karse. The Queen Selaney is being pressured towards marrying off her daughter, Elspeth, to Ancar, the prince Hardorn, for political reasons that could help Valdemar. Elspeth, of course, does not want to get married at all, especially not before her training as a herald is finished. She looks to Talia, the Queen's Own, for help. Talia knows that this is a situation that needs to be studied, especially when it appears that Lord Orthallen, a trusted noble to the Queen whom Talia has never trusted, is in favor of this marriage.<br />But that isn't the only trouble Talia's been having. Matters of the heart are uncovered when Talia begins to realize how much she truly loves her fellow herald, Dirk. Unfortunately Dirk, thinking that Talia is in love with his best friend Kris, tries to ignore the love he feels for her and starts to ignore Talia. Desperate for a break, Talia is almost happy when the Queen sends Talia and Kris into Hardorn to inspect Prince Ancar to see if he might be a worthy match for Elspeth. Talia and Kris have no idea that they're riding into something much more dangerous then they could ever imagine.<br />As the third book in the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy, Arrow's Fall proves to be the best edition yet. It's wonderful to see how Talia has grown from the first book, and too see the romance between Talia and Dirk finally come into play. The second half of the book is shocking, heartbreaking, exciting, and wonderful all at the same time. But because of the content in the second half of the book, I think the maturity level of the readers should be a bit higher than with the first two books. I can't wait to get started on another book by Mercedes Lackey. She's quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.	2002-09-03
1423088:US	49200164	R1Y95KSJGREXDF	0375814655	9616282	Lady Knight (Protector of the Small, 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Kel has finally become a Lady Knight!	After nearly a decade of training and preparing, 18-year-old Kel has joined the ranks as one of few female knights ever in Tortall. Since she got her shield in the middle of the war, Kel is well prepared to set off into battle, plus the Chamber of the Ordeal has given her a quest to stop an evil man who builds killing machines out of metal and children's souls. To stop this man Kel needs to be in battle. So Kel is shocked when Lord Wyldon, her former arms master, puts her in charge of a refugee camp instead. Kel is angry in the beginning but when sees the hungry faces of the now homeless refugees she can't refuse. But being in charge of a refugee camp is far from easy. Kel has to deal with angry people that don't agree with her at all not only because she is a young female knight, but because she is a noble as well. even so, Kel soon grows attached to her people. What will happen when everything is torn apart?<br />Tamora Pierce shows off her superior writing skills in the 4th edition of the Protector of the small story by telling one of her most suspenseful stories yet! Kel's story is unlike anything that a character has had to face before. This is probably my favorite book in the series. One was the fact that Kel wasn't constantly being confused about who she was falling in love with, like Alanna did. Maybe it's because Kel's only 18, and Alanna was a bit older in the final book of her quartet. The Protector of the Small quartet is a wonderful series that Tamora Pierce fans are sure to enjoy. I can't wait to see what adventures Mrs. Pierce comes up with in her future Tortall books and series.	2002-09-01
1425997:US	49200164	R1DAARWIKIRBW1	0439404371	708788000	The Thief Lord (BOOK SENSE BOOK OF THE YEAR CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (AWARDS))	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Another work of amazing kids fantasy	The protagonists of The Thief Lord are serious 12-year-old Prosper and innocent little 5-year-old Bo. After their parents die they're sent to live with their aunt and uncle who dislike Prosper greatly and wish to separate them. As a result the two children run away to Venice, a magical place of their mother's stories, and are taken in by another kid who calls himself The Thief Lord. The Thief Lord is a master thief and lives in a broken down movie theater with his gang: Mosca, Riccio and Hornet. Prosper and Bo think that they're safe but when their aunt sends out a private detective, named Victor, to find them, they realize that they may have to leave the place they've grown to call home. <br />Things get more complicated when the Thief Lord receives a job that he can't refuse. He has to break into a house to steal a seemingly unimportant object that's the key to something magical. But before he can even steal it a series of strange event threatens to tear the group apart. As Victor learns more about the group, the group learns more about their beloved Thief Lord, things that they don't like at all. Will the group be torn apart forever? <br />Like others I found out about this book in an article that claimed it to be \\"just as big, if not bigger than Harry Potter\\" and well I don't necessarily agree with that The Thief Lord as joined Harry Potter and Artemis Fowl as one of my favorite children's novels. The story is amazing and magical. Yes, there are a few similarities to Harry Potter. Hornet is a bit like Hermione and the whole \\"evil aunt and uncle\\" does come into play but that's where the similarities stop. I hope that the author decides to write a sequel, because there is so much more to be written about the characters. This book is made for fans of Harry Potter, Artemis Fowl and a Series of Unfortunate Events.	2002-08-29
1427846:US	49200164	R21S8YKJ9CUPHI	0679876154	312522121	The Tin Princess	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Becky, Jim and Adelaide's Story	Adelaide is no normal cockney teen, she's the princess of Razkavia, a small country not far from England. After marrying the prince of Razkavia he wants her to learn how to read and write and speak German. This is when she meets 16-year-old Becky, a native born Razkavian who has lived in England for nearly all her life. But when their tutoring session is cut short buy a bomb, an assassination attempt on the Prince. Their lives are turned upside down. They meet Jim, a private detective and close friend of Sally Lockheart, who has been looking for Adelaide for the past 10 years. Suddenly they are off to Razkavia where the three Londoners will face the complicated world of royal politics and Razkavian customs. When the prince is assassinated, Razkavia suddenly has themselves a cockney queen. What will they do?<br />The Tin Princess, a sequel book to Philip Pullman's award winning Sally Lockheart Trilogy, manages to answer most of the questions readers might have such as: What happened to Adelaide? Did Sally and Dan Goldberg ever get married? Did Sally manage to put her life back together after the horrible situations of The Tiger in the Well? Unfortunately The Tin Princess doesn't have the flair we last saw in the Sally Lockheart book. The only problem I have with Pullman's style of writing is the fact that he seems to introduce far too many characters that the book becomes confusing and most of the characters you want to learn about remain underdeveloped. He manages to get away with it in his Trilogies (Sally Lockheart, His Dark Materials) but it has a much different result in this specific solo novel. Other than that this book is great. It's faced paced and filled with exciting situations. I recommend it to fans of the Sally Lockheart trilogy.	2002-08-27
1429876:US	49200164	R3NG455TAXD31Y	0679826718	220124378	The Tiger in the Well (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The final book in the Sally Lockheart trilogy	After two years Sally Lockheart is finally recovering from the death of the father of her child, Harriet, and has created a successful business for herself and her partner Margaret. Life is going along rather nicely for out heroine until she receives a letter which claims that she was once married to a man she's never met, Mr. Parrish. The letter also claims that Mr. Parrish is the father of Harriet and he is asking for full custody of Sally's daughter because Sally is not a suitable mother. Sally is furious of course and will do anything to protect her daughter from this strange man. Unfortunately when she tries to investigate she finds herself drawn into a tangled web of events. Mr. Parrish isn't working alone, he's working for someone that hates Sally from the very depth's of his soul. And that can only be one person. Meanwhile London is receiving a very large amount of unwelcome Jewish immigrants. Among them is a Mr. Goldman, a socialist journalist who is wanted dead in more than one country. A journalist who also happens to have a rocky relationship with the same Mr. Parrish but for two very different reasons. What will happen when the two meet?<br />The Tiger in the Well is another impressive edition to the Sally Lockheart trilogy. It's interesting to see that with each novel Sally matures and turns into a really strong woman. Although the Tiger in the Well is not as good as the 2nd novel in the trilogy, the Shadow in the North, it is definitely worth reading. I'm just still surprised that these novels have been put into the YA section when the only real YA book would probably be The Ruby in the Smoke, and even that can be considered an adult novel. The sequel novel to the trilogy, The Tin Princess, is on my shelf and ready to be read.	2002-08-25
1436537:US	49200164	R1Q3VTZISYS9G6	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Karigan's Wild Ride	Karigan G'ladheon seems like no one special. As the daughter of a wealthy merchant her clan name is well known through out her country but she herself has done little of importance. That is until the day she's kicked out of school for fighting with a very powerful noble's son. She is encountered by a Green Rider, a royal messenger, who carries an important message for the King. He begs Karigan to take it, claiming it to be a life or death matter. The next thing Karigan knows, she's riding off on the Green Riders horse into unknown territory, towards the capital city. She finds herself involved with dangerous magic that she never knew existed and she has now become part of a deadly political situation, involving the new King and his scheming brother. It soon becomes obvious to her that that there are many people that would kill her just to stop the message she carries from reaching the King.<br />I first heard about this book on amazon as a recommendation on someone else's review of another book I really enjoyed. I was very surprised when I saw the sheer length of this book. I have read books longer than this but the book it was recommended with was considerably short. It soon became obvious for me that even though this book is long it doesn't slow down in it's 470 pages. Kristen Britain has all the makings of my preferred fantasy novel, a strong female main character, action and adventure, and a good healthy dose of good and evil magic. I only hope that the author writes a sequel book, or even another tale of a Green Rider. The world Kristen Britain writes about is fascinating and it would be a pity for her not to visit it again. I recommend this book to fans of such authors as Dawn Cook, Tamora Pierce and Mercedes Lackey.	2002-08-19
1439795:US	49200164	R125F4M8WDI078	0380978016	549647713	The Stone and the Maiden (House of Pandragore)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An interesting work of fantasy	The Ascendry is under attack by the violent Tathars and it looks like the country may never recover. But the Tathars are not alone in their attack. Erkai the chain, a powerful sorcerer, swears vengeance on the Dynast and his bloodline. The Dynast himself is weak and fearful, caring about no one but himself. To top it off the Dynast's youngest daughter is corrupt with the black arts and plans on taking the throne as soon as possible. It looks like there is no hope for the Ascendry and the country will not survive.<br />But there is. Mandine, the future Dynatessa, has been given the task by the Two (the God and Goddess) themselves. She must find the Stingtana a powerful tool that affects everyone that it touches. Her only companion is to be Key, a young soldier who she finds herself strangely drawn and attracted to. But before their journey can even start Mandine finds herself trapped in her father's castle. Can they ever escape? And what will happen when they do?<br />I was a bit unsure about reading this book, considering half of the reviews on amazon were negative. To tell the truth the only real reason I read this book was to read the sequel (The Mask and the Sorceress, which looks very entertaining.) When I read this book I was pleasantly surprised. Sure some of the characters were a bit underdeveloped but the storyline was entertaining and it took place in a new and intereresting world. The Stone and the Maiden is a good start to an interesting looking fantasy series. I would probably recommend it.	2002-08-16
1442407:US	49200164	RXAATL8PGLGQH	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A amazing novel about family, love and heaven	Fourteen year old Susie Salmon's short life is stolen from her when a man from her neighborhood rapes and murders her. After she dies Susie, while in heaven, watches all the people she loves on earth. She watches her younger sister Lindsey build walls around herself to numb the pain, and learn how to grow up without a sister. She watches her parents' marriage collapse and her father's desperate attempt to find Susie's killer. She watches her almost-boyfriend whom she shared her first kiss with get over losing his first love. She watches Ruth, a girl she barely knows, connect with her death and become obsessed with it. She watches her 4-year-old brother Buckley try to understand things he is far too young for. And she watches her killer get away with her murder with very little questioning. As the years pass by people forget about how little Susie was murdered, but no one ends up unaffected.<br />After being suggested this book by a friend, I quickly went to the nearest bookstore to buy it. I was not disappointed. The Lovely Bones is a new near perfect novel about heaven, love, family, and how people react to horrible situations. The simple style and writing of this novel manages to created an original story that I really enjoyed. I highly recommend this book to teenagers and adults alike.	2002-08-13
1444473:US	49200164	R355VFKFXFGLEY	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An enchanting new novel	I find if amusing that I chose to read Bel Canto surrounded by classical and opera singers while I was at Youth Music camp. Bel Canto is an enchanting story of people pulling together in what looks like impossible times. Roxane Coss, famous and renowned soprano is giving a Japanese fan, Mr. Hosokawa, quite a thrill by singing at his birthday party which takes place in a mansion in a 3rd world South American country. Everything is going wonderfully until 18 terrorists, literally of all ages, attack the mansion, taking everyone hostage including Roxane, Mr. Hosokawa, Mr. Hosokawa's translator Gen, and a young priest. In the beginning the hostages fear for their lives, not knowing what any of the only Spanish speaking terrorists really want from them. But as everything starts to calm down, the exact opposite of what expected starts to happen. People who would have never meet each other for language barriers and other reasons become close friends, and sometimes more. People start to forget about dying and remember how to live for the first time in years.<br />I was really impressed with this book. I first heard about it in writer magazine and was enchanted from the start. Although I usually stick to YA and fantasy novels, I found this to be a pleasant surprise and change. Their is something special about the descriptive nature of the writing that almost reminds me of Arthur Golden's Memoirs of a Geisha (one of my favorite books). The characters are well crafted and quite memorable, my favorite being Gen, the young translator who probably saved lives dozens of times. This book is worth all the hype it's getting. I highly recommend this to readers of all ages.	2002-08-12
1445277:US	49200164	R128Q4428J7FMZ	0441068804	887280747	The Blue Sword	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An entertaining fantasy novel	If your in the mood for a suspenseful fantasy novel, the Blue Sword is for you. After hearing so much good about this book I knew I had to read it and I was not disappointed. The Blue Sword tells the story of recently orphaned Harry Crewe who lives a very slow life with the outlanders in a country called Damar. She can't explain it but she feels a strange connection to the desert. Everything she knows changes when she is kidnapped by Corlath, the king of the mysterious and magical Hillfolk with whom the Outlanders share Damar with. Harry is confused by the Hillfolk and their strange customs and language but she soon realizes that she wasn't merely kidnapped on a whim. She has magic in her blood, a very powerful magic that connects her to the mysterious blue sword which hasn't been wielded by a woman since the great lady Aerin. Harry (or Hari or Harimad-Sol as she is later known as) is a wonderful strong character that you'll love to watch grow and develop from the very beginning. I recommend this book for all ages to fans of Tamora Pierce, Dawn Cook, or any other work of Robin McKinley.	2002-08-11
1447271:US	49200164	RJ2T415O72EP4	067988291X	961849318	The Realms of the Gods (The Immortals #4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The thrilling conclusion to The Immortals Series	In the Realm of the Gods 16-year-old Daine, who has been blessed with an unusually large amount of Wild Magic, and her companion, the powerful mage Numair, are pulled into the mysterious Realm of the Gods by Daine's mother to save their lives. But once they get there they know they need to leave as soon as possible. Tortall is under attack by the ex-emperor Ozorne and his army of evil immortals. Daine wants the gods to help them but their busy with their own fight against the Chaos who is feeding off of the carnage in the Immortals war. Daine and Numair must leave the realm of the gods, a very difficult process that they may not survive. And what will Tortall be like when they return?<br />Although The Realm of the Gods is probably my least favorite book in the Immortals series, it's still a thrilling fantasy story that I would recommend to fans of Tamora Pierce. The Immortals is probably one of my favorite quartets written by Tamora Pierce and each novel is a thrill. The stunning character development of Daine and the budding romance makes is a memorable series. I recommend this series to fans of fantasy for all ages. The only bad thing about me finishing this book is now I have to wait like everyone else before I can read a new Tamora Pierce book.	2002-08-09
1450868:US	49200164	R16XGDTZXSQ760	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mia's Newest Challenge: The Boyfriend	For the first time in her life Mia (also known as Princess Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldo) has an actual boyfriend. In any other situation this would be a good thing but unfortunately for Mia she doesn't love her boyfriend back, in fact she doesn't even like him that much. Although no one knows it but her diary, she's in love with Michael, Lilly's brother, and has been for some time. But that's not Mia's only problem, she still has to deal with her mother's and her Algebra teacher's new marriage and her new sibling on the way. And to top it off her Princess lessons have gotten more and more complicated. Once school breaks for winter holidays Mia will be traveling to Genovia, where she will be introduced to the Genovian public for the first time on television, not something that Mia's had the greatest luck with in the past.<br />You may be wondering how a 17-year-old upcoming senior got so hooked on a series that's very well loved by many 12-year-olds and honestly I don't know why too. I just have a thing for books of all ages (including the I Spy Picture books they so conveniently place at work whenever I get board). Princess in Love is just as good as the other books in the series (The Princess Diaries, and Princess in the Spotlight) if not better. I was hesitant on buying this book at first (I hate to buy hardcover books) but I'm glad I did. If you're a fan of the series, I highly recommend reading this. I hope the 4th book in the series, Princess in Waiting, will be just as good. It's just a shame it's not coming out until April 2003.	2002-08-06
1450889:US	49200164	R3OVPU9S2PHFMS	0743403649	62261357	Prowlers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another thrilling suspense book by Christopher Golden	In the past Christopher Golden has wowed us with thrilling Buffy novelizations and the amazing Body of Evidence series, but with Prowlers he breaks new ground, giving us a series that's more adult than YA.<br />The hero, 19-year-old Jack Dwyer, has not lived an easy life. His mother died when he was only 10, leaving her bar to him and his sister, a bar that he has owned half of since he was in high school. But when a new tragedy strikes Jack he finds it difficult to deal with. His best friend Artie, and a girl he might have gone out with have been murdered in a brutal way. Jack tries to move on but unfortunately Artie won't let him. Jack is shocked when Artie comes back from the ghost worlds to warn him about horrible creatures called Prowlers. They are monsters, wolves with human faces, that move from city to city, killing and murdering until they're almost found out. The pack gets larger and larger with every bound and now only Jack can stop them.<br />Like the Jenna Blake series, this novel is suspenseful and mysterious and like Chris Golden's Buffy novel's they're filled with their fare share of supernatural monsters. I very much enjoyed this book and look foreword to reading the rest of the series. I recommend this book to fans of the Jenna Blake series and others of the like.	2002-08-06
1452954:US	49200164	R2S8WD92FKG31O	0451458842	894481588	The Glasswrights' Journeyman	Books	5	3	5	N	N	So far my favorite book in the series!	When Morenia is struck with a deadly fire the flames leave many of the buildings level and many of the touched struck ill with firelung. King Hal knows that the country needs more money to fund programs to help not only his people but the still recovering country of Armanthia. He may have to wed the soft spoken relgiously devout princess of Liantine for her dowry. But he cannot do this alone. He invites Rani Trader, who now 18-years-old and working on becoming a glasswrights Journeyman, to come with him to help bargain. But little does he know that a scandal is already building in Laintine. In the Spidersilk guild there is another girl, Mareka, who is also working on her journeyman status and in Liantine the 1000 gods are practically forbidden to be spoken of. Rani Trader and Hal are facing their greatest challenge yet, with the fate of Morenia in their hands.<br />After the Glasswrights Progress I didn't think it could get any better but I was wrong. The Glasswrights Journeyman, so far the 3rd in the Glasswirghts Saga, is an amazing work of fantasy. All the wonderfully complicated that we have learned to love are back such as Rani, Hal, Mair and Crestman. That's the thing I love the most about this series, the characters are so real. The hero's aren't perfect and the villains aren't completely evil. For example Hal is a noble king but he is also dangerously ambitious and a bit power hungry. Rani can be selfish at times and Mair can be pushy. It's these great characters, and some of the new ones, that make this book such a thrill. I can't wait until the next book in the series, The Glasswrights Test (coming out around June next year) hits the shelves.	2002-08-04
1453520:US	49200164	R290QRAZ7TZDJR	0743400836	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A novel about growing up and mother/daughter relationships	Lissy Jablonski's most influential summer was the summer that never happened. When she was 15 her father, a soft spoken gynecologist ran off on Lissy and her mother with a redheaded bank teller. This event sparked many others that involved Lissy learning the truth about her father, the father she never knew she had, traveling to places she's never been with her suddenly all too open mother, meeting her first love and much more. Years later when Lissy is nearing 30 her life is falling apart. She's become pregnant with a married man's child, her first love has fallen in love with a Korean stripper and most traumatically, her father is dying. This causes her to flash back on her 15th summer, the most influential time in her life. Girl talk may seem a fun book at first but it has far deeper meanings underneath. If you're interested in a book about an adolescent girl becoming a woman, mother/daughter relationships and growing up in the 80s I recommend this to you. Although it isn't the most amazing book I have ever read it was thoroughly entertaining. I recommend it to all people, mothers and daughters alike.	2002-08-03
1453821:US	49200164	R3TUAO3QJJQQMP	0765343266	634479806	Son of the Shadows (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The magical 2nd book in the Sevenwaters Trilogy	Liadan's mother made history in Sevenwaters when she saved her brothers from an evil Sorceress's horrible curse. Now things are different, most of Sorcha's brothers have either fled Sevenwaters or died, and Sorcha and Red live in Sevenwaters with their three children. Liadan looks foreword to living a simple life in Sevenwaters but the fair folk have other things in mind. Sevenwaters and their allies are still at war with the Britons and they find a new foe in the Painted man, ruthless mercenaries that kill without mercy. Liadan wants nothing to do with them but when she is kidnapped by a troop of painted men her whole life turns upside down. In the short time she spends with them Liadan's view on everything is changed dramatically and she leaves carrying something special with her, something that may be the key to the prophecy, the prophecy that will free all of Erin from British tyranny.<br />I loved Daughter of the Forest and Son of the Shadows is just as good. Juliet Marillier once again manages to weave a tale of mystery, suspense, and romance which are rooted in Celtic myths. Liadan is just as likable as her mother Sorcha, if not more. I highly recommend this book and trilogy to fans of fantasy fiction that's not afraid to be a little romantic and a little different. I can't wait to read the final book in the Sevenwaters Trilogy, Child of the Prophecy, to see how my favorite characters' journey ends.	2002-08-03
1468087:US	49200164	R1AAAUWDY8VD6	1573225126	662106244	Prozac Nation	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Poetic honest and real	I guess that you can say that reading memoirs is a new thing of mine. After reading such great books as Wasted by Marya Hornbatcher and First Person Plural I picked up Prozac Nation, looking foreword to an interesting story about growing up with depression. What I got was such more. Prozac Nation is a personal tale of growing up with depression and not really knowing what it was at first. Because of her parents divorce, Elizabeth Wurtzel was used to going to therapy sessions but the thought of her having depression didn't come up to years later. The book mainly focuses on her college years, about Elizabeth's living with depression, how she dealt with it and how it effected her life. Prozac Nation is written with the honesty and closeness that you might find in a dairy. I agree with many of the opinions that Miss Wurtzel has. Unlike some memoirs on this subject it is not filled with medical facts, but reflections. I would highly recommend this book to anyone. Although I personally don't think I have any kinds of serious depression, I'm not the most calm and happy person in the world. This book made me realize that many people go through the same things and much worse. If you're a fan of memoirs or just good stories you should read this.	2002-07-21
1474462:US	49200164	RUH7SF54I3ON3	0316910333	680713352	Gossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)	Books	2	142	182	N	N	Not really recommended	When I picked up this book I was eager for another Cruel Intentions. What I got was much different. Gossip Girl tells the story of teenagers living a privileged life in NYC. Blair Thinks she has a perfect life, she's rich, her boyfriend Nate is wonderful, and she's looking foreword to going to Yale next year. Unfortunatly for Blair, everything changes when Serena comes back to town. Serena is Blair's \\"best friend\\" and biggest rival. She's seemingly prefect in every way and out shadows all of her friends. But now that she's back, rumors are flying. She's gotten kicked out of boarding school and according to NYC's rumor mill she's done some pretty dirty things to get expelled.<br />Sound interesting? Well, it's not. Unlike other people I was not \\"shocked\\" or \\"appalled\\" at the dirty nature of this book. Personally I've read far worse and have not been offended. The thing that really got me about this book was the sheer bad writing. The characters, which should be the backbone of any novel, are shallow and far too two-dimensional. They're popular, dress in fabulous clothes (which the author can't help but describe, the only real detail you'll get in this book), get drunk, have sex, get high, and spread rumors. Each one of them are the stereotypes of every character you'll find in any trashy teen novels. We have the \\"popular girls\\" the \\"deep poet\\" the \\"former popular girl with the bad reputation\\" the \\"theater geek\\" and the infamous \\"shy naieve girl who wants to be popular.\\"<br />Recent great YA novels like Speak, and Love and Four Letter words have shown the world that teen books don't have to be shallow. In fact they can have some heart. Gossip girl falls back on the stereotypes that all teens are shallow and have nothing better to do in life than to worry about popularity. I gave it 2 stars instead of one because I'm not naieve, I know that there are people that like books like this, but I'm not that kind of person. If you want a good YA novel read Sloppy Firsts or Feeling sorry for Celia, they focus on the lives of real teens of all different shapes and sizes and are much better written.	2002-07-15
1474923:US	49200164	RUK50QF1XFCPU	0451458354	145330358	The Glasswrights' Progress: The Glasswright's Progress, Book Two	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Even better than the first!	Rani Trader's life has changed very much since 2 years ago when she was falsely accused of being involved in the crown prince's murder. Now, at 15, she is working very hard to rebuild the shattered glasswrights guild as she lives a privileged life in the court. But everything changes when she and the former touched girl Mair are kidnapped by the ... prince Bashi, and taken away to a northern country. Here lives an old woman who's life is changed forever when she saves a young boy named Crestman who is in fact the leader of the \\"Little Army,\\" an army of children loyal to the tyrant Sir Hazar. Meanwhile back in Morina, the young king Hal finds himself in a fierce political battle with the Fellowship of Jair, the same fellowship that have protected him and helped in achieved a throne. His loyalty to his country and loyalty to his brothers are put to the test. He soon realizes that he won't be able to remain loyal to both of them for ever, and soon he will half to make an important choice.<br />While I enjoyed Rani's first story, The Glasswrights Apprentice, I was blown away by it's sequel. In the Glasswrights Progress Rani and her friend's story is more thrilling than ever. While reading it I found myself shocked at the maturity some of the characters now posses. Rani's life has changed a lot since the last book and she shows it. I was also surprised to see a very little romance sneak in towards the end. If you're a fan of dark suspenseful fantasy novels I recommend this to you. I can't wait to read the 3rd book in the series, the Glasswrights Journeyman.	2002-07-15
1475057:US	49200164	R1D79YJDQODSL1	0812649001	261696812	Seek	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Orginal novel!	In Seek, High School teenager Rob is assigned to write an autobiography based on his life so far. Rob reflects back on his life not with writing descriptions and dialog but with sounds bites. He remembers his grandmother telling him stories, his grandfather teaching him history, his mother watching Spanish soap operas with him, he and his friends creating a controversial and popular newspaper in school and most importantly his continuous love for the radio. He remembers listening the radio, searching the many channels in hope of one day hearing his father's voice come over for once, the father who abandoned him and his mother before birth because he didn't want a child. Seek is a really great book. This novel/play is a familiar story but told in an unfamiliar way, instead of descriptions it's told through simple sound bites. If you're in the mood for an honest, touching, and often humorous story about a boy's search for his father and growing up in the world this is defiantly for you. It's a rarity you see a YA book with such heart.	2002-07-15
1475152:US	49200164	R3AJ9P1E6KNRHY	0812649001	261696812	Seek	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Orginal novel!	In Seek, High School teenager Rob is assigned to write an autobiography based on his life so far. Rob reflects back on his life not with writing descriptions and dialog but with sounds bites. He remembers his grandmother telling him stories, his grandfather teaching him history, his mother watching Spanish soap operas with him, he and his friends creating a controversial and popular newspaper in school and most importantly his continuous love for the radio. He remembers listening the radio, searching the many channels in hope of one day hearing his father's voice come over for once, the father who abandoned him and his mother before birth because he didn't want a child. Seek is a really great book. This novel/play is a familiar story but told in an unfamiliar way, instead of descriptions it's told through simple sound bites. If you're in the mood for an honest, touching, and often humorous story about a boy's search for his father and growing up in the world this is defiantly for you. It's a rarity you see a YA book with such heart.	2002-07-15
1476766:US	49200164	R3GM0GD4X359KG	0886773776	770029888	Arrow's Flight (The Heralds of Valdemar, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Talia's second adventure	In Arrows Flight, the second book in the Heralds of Valdemar Series, Talia has finally become a Herald. And like all other Heralds, she has to go through her year and a half training on the field. She's very nervous about this but is relieved when she is put with the kind Kris. Unfortunately for Talia she faces more challenges than she expects. Not only does she have the normal responsibilities of a herald but she's starting to doubt her gifts. Rumors are circulating in court that she's using them in unethical ways, and Talia isn't sure what's they consider to be ethical. No one has ever had gifts like hers before so there's no one to show her how to use them. To top it off Talia and Kris are forced to work for survival during a dangerous storm unlike one they've ever seen.<br />Although I didn't enjoy this book quite as much as Arrows of the Queen, the first in the series, Arrows Flight is still an amazing book about friendship, self discovery, and control. If you're a fan of the series, I recommend this book. Although it's not as suspenseful as the first book, It's very good.	2002-07-13
1481988:US	49200164	R4XTBCTD55OZY	0679882901	559159018	Emperor Mage (The Immortals, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	So far my favorite book in the Immortals Series	Fifteen-year-old Daine, who is blessed with a rather large amount of Wild Magic, travels to Carthak, the city that was expected to be responsible for the release of the immortals into Tortall, to help with the peace talk and take care of the Emperor's sick birds. Carthak is different that she ever would imagine. The palace doesn't have servants but slaves and every member of the royal family is covered in riches. Carthak is beautiful but Daine knows not to trust it. The Emperor Mage himself, Ozorne, an old rival of Numair, seems to have two faces. Much to Daine's displeasure she runs into a familliar Stormwing as well. Meanwhile Daine is given a mysterious gift from the gods that she does not like at all, and when disaster strikes she may have to use it to extract her revenge... Emperor Mage is so far my favorite book in the immortals series. It's suspenseful and surprising, filled with great new characters and sparks of possible romance. It was great to see some old characters from the Lioness series such as Alanna, Duke Gareth and his son. If you're a fan of the immortals series I highly recommend you do out right now and buy it. I can't wait to read the 4th and final book in the quartet, in the Realm of the Gods. I can't wait to see how Daine's adventures end.	2002-07-09
1485619:US	49200164	R2NYUU4CRF9SMR	044100945X	392803311	First Truth (Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Magical First Novel	Alissa doesn't believe in magic, she hasn't since her father left her as a child. Now, 19-years-old and living the life of a hill person with only her mother, her mother announces that she must go to the Hold to start her training as a Keeper. Alissa is shocked, Keepers are creatures that only existed in her father's stories. Keepers don't exist. But since she has little choice on the matter she sets off for this mysterious hold with nothing but her bird companion. On the way there she runs into Strell, a minstrel who has just received the most painful news of his life, his family has perished. Alissa is annoyed with this young plainsman, especially with his prejudices against hill people. But Strell has one thing that she lacks, one thing that will help her find the Hold, a map. So the two set off to find the Hold, not knowing what to expect. Everything changes when they receive contact from someone trapped in the Hold's walls who's message is very blunt, stay away from the Hold because there's danger there than neither of them could ever dream of.<br />I picked up this book with good feelings. Not only did it get great reviews ... but on the review page is said something to the extent of \\"a good read for Tamora Pierce fans\\" and being a big Tammy fan I was all too eager to read it. And I was not disappointed it. The small and simple cast of this book combined with the enchanting setting, creates a new and interesting fantasy novel. I agree with who ever said the only really bad part of the book is having to wait for the sequel (the ending is quite a cliff hanger so be warned!). I recommend this book to fans of Tamora Pierce, Sherwood Smith, and Mercedes Lackey.	2002-07-06
1487285:US	49200164	RI1RJO4ANISSW	0886773784	907791687	Arrows of the Queen ( The Heralds of Valdemar, Book 1)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Fantastic Fantasy!	Thirteen-year-old Talia lives an unpleasant life among the Holderkin. Her only escape is the world in her books about heralds. Talia wants nothing more than to be a herald and when her dream comes true she quickly that herald life, although thrilling and wonderful is a lot more complicated than she ever thought. She is to become the Queens Own, one of the most important positions for a herald. Her main task is to take care of the young spoiled Princess Elspeth, but even before she can do that she must start her training as a herald. This involves weapons practice, fascinating history classes, and complicated magic works. And to top it off Talia must endure the harsh treatment of people that would do anything to get rid of her.<br />I absolutely loved this book. Being my second Mercedes Lackey book, Arrows of the Queen is an amazing work of fantasy. The main character, Talia was very easy for me to relate to, even though our lives are very different. I'm definitely going to continue to read this trilogy (the other books are Arrows Flight and Arrows fall). Mercedes Lackey is a great author.	2002-07-04
1487318:US	49200164	R1S8G7YPKQLN5H	0786808551	857095333	Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	If you were impressed with the first book...	... then you'll love the second.<br />In this book Artemis Fowl, a thirteen year old criminal mastermind is on year older and one year wiser. He is living in an Irish boarding school when he receives a message about the man he thought he'd never see again, his father Artemis Fowl Senior. Meanwhile Captain Holly Short and Commander Root of the LEPrecon forces face a huge problem when they discover that goblins, one of the stupidest forms or fairy, have been receiving human help and are turning into a threat in the fairy world. Artemis, Butler, and the fairies are once again thrown together, but this time under different circumstances. They make a deal, if Artemis helps them with their problem, they'll help him find his father. Easy right? Well, if you think that you could be no further from the truth. The goblin's scheme is more complicated than anyone would have guessed. Artemis and co. soon find themselves fighting for their lives.<br />While I loved the first book, Artemis Fowl, I was blown away by the second. Eoin Colfer proves what a talented author he really is with the wonderfully three-dimensional and original characters you find in this book. Like the first book it was suspenseful, action packed, and very comedic. Unlike the first book you get to see Artemis use his powers for good and play the hero for once, something that Artemis isn't too keen on. If you're a fan of the first book in the series I highly recommend reading the second. The Arctic Incident is a prime example of why kids fantasy is such a great genre.	2002-07-04
1487763:US	49200164	R2B84P6KZFB9IM	0679882898	325062218	Wolf-Speaker (Immortals)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The amazing 2nd book in the immortals series	Wolf-Speaker, the second book in the Immortals series, proves to be just as good as the last. In this book Daine and Numair are off north when Daine gets a distress call from the wolf pack that helped her avenge her parents death. The pack tells them about a force of two-leggers (or humans) that are tearing up the land, cutting down trees, and scaring away all the game. Daine is the only one that can tell the nobles in the area to stop. But when Daine and Numair comes across the nobles of the area they realize that they might have much more sinister causes, causes that has something to do with the dangerous immortals that are running rampant in Tortall. Because of this Daine and Numair are seperated, both focused on their tasks. Daine wants to help her pack brothers and sisters more than anything, but with every step she takes she finds herself getting in more dangerous predicaments. I really enjoyed this book, I've nearly read everything by Tamora Pierce and this series is becoming a fast favorite of mine. I was really happy to see Daine learning more about Stormwings and meeting ... different kinds of immortals (but I won't spoil it for you!) I recommend this series not only to fans of Tamora Pierce and Fantasy fiction, but to animal loves as well.	2002-07-04
1492809:US	49200164	RCBCYD44W02WL	067988288X	173668273	Wild Magic (Immortals #1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The first thrilling book in the Immortals Series	Thirteen-year-old Daine has always had a knack with animals and it's because of her strange gifts with her four legged friends that she gets a job taking care of horses with the K'mir Onau. Daine's talents with animals runs far deeper than any one suspects and when she meets Numair the mage she learns that she might have magic in her. Unfortunately Daine has more to worry about than this. She has to deal with her mothers death and the strange and terrifying creatures that have started to come into Tortall. They are immortals, powerful monster-like creatures that don't seem to get along with humans. Since Daine is the only one who can sense them coming, it's up to her to protect her new friends, and find out which immortals are good, or evil.<br />I'm a big fan of Tamora Pierce. I've read every book she has out in The Song of the Lioness, The Protector of the Small, Circle of Magic, and Circle Opens Series but I've never gotten to the immortals after a friend of mine's bad experience with the first book. But, unlike my friend, I found these books to be exciting. Daine is a great character who I can relate to very well (considering she has magical gifts and I... um don't). I was happy to see Alanna who barely shows her face in the Protector of the Small Series play still a minor, but much bigger role. And I was also happy to see George, one of my favorite characters, return for a few scenes. If you're a fan of Tortall books or anything by Tamora Pierce read this book. If the rest of the series is like this I can't wait to read them!	2002-06-30
1500103:US	49200164	R2K3847EVTOE75	0595226132	455501490	A Branch of Thorns	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An impressive debut	Aiden Throne lives in one of the few original houses in Dosmary, an old town in Massachusetts that has recently gone through massive renovations, with his grandmother Dora. And although few people know it he's no normal teen, he's a witch with powerful gifts that he can tell no one. But even through all this he manages to live a somewhat normal life but everything changes when he starts hearing a strange voice on the wind telling him to beware. He doesn't think of it much until he comes across an old journal in the local occult store. He quickly learns that it is one of his ancestors book of shadows who summoned a dark spirit from the otherworld that was responsible for the deaths of many. Strange things start to happen... Aiden is no longer safe, not even in his own house.<br />After learning from an Amelia Atwater-Rhodes website about this author I knew I had to read it. Not only was it a book about a subject I find interesting, but it was by another young author. I was really impressed with the writing style of someone so young. You can tell he has the potential to be a really good author. Although some parts were weak, some characterization a bit two dimensional, the book itself was quite a page turner. I can't wait to see what this new author turns out in the next few years. It's always interesting to see people grow as authors. I recommend this book to fans of such books as Amelia Atwater-Rhodes and the Sweep series.	2002-06-23
1501371:US	49200164	R1AZUDCL0XKHL0	0451457897	921168810	The Glasswrights' Apprentice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A dark and suspenseful novel	Rani lives in a world unlike ours where moving from one class to another is nearly impossible. For that reason her parents spend all the money they have to make her an apprentice to the Galsswrights guild, a place where she will have the skills to live a better life than as a simple merchant. But when she sneaks into the temple one day to watch a special ceremony involving the crown prince her whole life changes. Suddenly the prince is dead and everyone thinks she's the one who killed him. The Glasswrights guild is destroyed and the kings men are out hunting for her. Rani doesn't know what to do or who to trust. Running through the city streets she starts to learn about a secret government who speak of equality among the castes, a brotherhood that deals in murder. What can Rani do?<br />Although the beginning of this novel at first turned me off it quickly picks up to a suspenseful pace. I was a bit shocked that there was no magic or any kind of sorcery in this novel, considering I found it in the fantasy section, but it did not make my reading experience any worse. If you're into medieval novels that are fast paced and don't necessary need to have magic in them this is for you. I'm looking foreword to reading the rest of Rani's books.	2002-06-22
1501658:US	49200164	RXJW3UHLM04GC	0312875304	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A re-telling of one of my favorite fairy tales	Young Sorcha is the 7th child and only daughter in her family. She loves her six other brothers and cherishes each of them in their own way. But her life is changed forever when she helps a young Briton soldier (her supposed enemy) from torture and death. In the few short weeks she stays with him she manages to gain his trust and keep him alive. Although she's certain she'll never see him again she has more pressing matters. Her farther is remarrying the lady Oonagh, and the first time Sorcha sets her sights on them she can feel that she is evil. Her suspicions are confirmed when her evil stepmother punishes all of her brothers by turning them into 6 swans, only having the ability to take on their human forms twice a year. Sorcha is shocked when she discovers that she is their only hope. If she can weave 6 shirts out of sharp nettles while keeping silent until her task is complete, the spell will be broken. But Sorcha's task is hindered quickly when she is captured by the enemy, the Britons and is brought out of Ireland into their home lands. Here she is viewed as a demon, a witch, and she's in more danger than she ever would have expected.<br />I was thrilled with this book. Growing up The Wild Swans (also called the eleven/six swans) was one of my favorite fairy tales and I was glad to see it being retold with such beauty (the cover illustration even looks like the heroine I always pictured). Daughter of the forest weaves fairy tales, fantasy, suspense, Irish history, and a dash of romance into a well crafted story that I really enjoyed. If you're a fan of fairy tales or just good stories read this book. I can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy (Son of Shadows and Child of the Prophecy).	2002-06-22
1501856:US	49200164	R20GCDZPPTTITG	0679889167	133881695	Squire (Protector of the Small, No. 3)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Keladry's years as a Squire	After 4 years of training as a Page, Keladry has finally become a squire. Although she is disappointed at first when Lady Alanna, the first female kngith, does not choose her to be her squire she soon gets over it when she learns that Raoul, who is easy going and a modern thinker, choses Kel. Her time as a squire is not spent serving the knight, which is what normally happens, but her own training to be a knight herself. She quickly learns that her talents when it comes to such things as jousting can come in handy in more ways than she even throught. <br />But Kel's life is more complicated still when a flirtation with a fellow squire quickly turns to romance. Kel never thought she'd be interested in her friend in that way but she's soon discovering that she is. And to top it off Kel is preparing for her most difficult challenge as a squire, the chamber of the ordeal. And her visit to the chamber may be more challenging than she ever thought, after all in the past year two squires have died while in the chamber walls and she certainly doesn't want to end up as the third!<br />If you're a fan of Tamora Pierce's series, Protector of the Small, you're sure to be entertained witht this one. Looking at the book you'll discover that it's much longer than anything she's ever written (thanks to such authors as Philip Phullman and JK Rowling who have opened up the door for longer childrens fantasy books) it's just as good as the rest. The plot is more complex yes, and more things do happen in the nearly 400 pages but you still have the same magic that Tamora has managed to pack into 250. Unlike others, I found Kel's new romance to be a welcomed surprise, becasue it is unlike any we have seen in Tamora's books. Although I'm not sure how long it will last... Anyways if you're a fan of Tamora's books like me you'll love Squire.	2002-06-21
1502128:US	49200164	R11J87WI0F73VP	0886774632	906599038	By the Sword (Kerowyn's Tale)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kerowyn's Tale	Kerowyn (or Kero for short) has always know that she was not meant to be a &quot;lady.&quot; She despises everything about them, rather spending her time learning how to fight and using her own gifts and talents. And when her brother's bride is kidnapped one night her talents are put to the test. She visits her grandmother Kerthy, for help on her rescue, and her whole life is turned upside down. She is now bonded to a mysterious sword, a sword that is ment to help all women in danger and will never harm a woman, a sword that can heal and gives her mysterious battlepower. By the Sword chronicals Kero's life with the sword. From a young headstrong teenager of 15 to a seasoned warrior and mercenary. If you're interested in books of fantasy with strong female charecters this is for you! Keroywn is a likeable main charecter that works hard for breaking sterotypes and becoming independant. I was impressed with this book, it's very well written and fast paced. This is the first book by Mercedes Lackey that I've read but it will certainly not be the last.	2002-06-21
1502175:US	49200164	RQXKACQRJWY53	0886774632	906599038	By the Sword (Kerowyn's Tale)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Kerowyn's Tale	Kerowyn (or Kero for short) has always know that she was not meant to be a &quot;lady.&quot; She despises everything about them, rather spending her time learning how to fight and using her own gifts and talents. And when her brother's bride is kidnapped one night her talents are put to the test. She visits her grandmother Kerthy, for help on her rescue, and her whole life is turned upside down. She is now bonded to a mysterious sword, a sword that is ment to help all women in danger and will never harm a woman, a sword that can heal and gives her mysterious battlepower. By the Sword chronicals Kero's life with the sword. From a young headstrong teenager of 15 to a seasoned warrior and mercenary. If you're interested in books of fantasy with strong female charecters this is for you! Keroywn is a likeable main charecter that works hard for breaking sterotypes and becoming independant. I was impressed with this book, it's very well written and fast paced. This is the first book by Mercedes Lackey that I've read but it will certainly not be the last.	2002-06-21
1510256:US	49200164	R2TZNGCG9Z7GKU	0679889183	237644619	Page (Protector of the Small Quartet, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Kel's Schooling continues	After surviving her first year in training to become a knight, Kel returns to the palace to finish her last three years as a Page. Unfortunatly for Kel she has more to deal with than the classes, the weapons training, protecting her sparrows, and helping out 1st year pages that are being unrightfully hazed. In this book she has to deal with growing up as a woman. Not only is she sprouting up inches in months, she's going through that tricky \\"becoming a woman\\" stage, and she finds her feelings for her best friend Neal reaching beyond friendship. As the protector of the small she also finds herself constantly helping others. Wheather it's a abused young woman in the arts of self defense, a ugly little dog, or a bunch of first year pages who's knowledge of staff fighting is... limited. Kel has 3 very busy years in front of her, each one looking more thrilling than the last. Personally I was happy with this book. I've really grown to like Kel when I wasn't so sure about her in the first book. Regardless of what others say I think she's a great charecter. Personally I was happy not to get another Alanna. While Alanna was impulsive, Kel is calm. While Alanna is a loner, Kel is a leader. While Alanna was short and quickly, Kel is tall and strong, etc, etc. If you're a fan of Tamora Peirce's works and have already read first test, I reccomend this book.	2002-06-13
1510352:US	49200164	R28XZE5Z54ZH58	0786805706	613428979	Slaves of the Mastery (The Wind on Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Better than the last!	Slaves of the Mastery is the second book in the Winds on Fire Trilogy by William Nicholson. Without a doubt it is even better than the first. In this Bowman and Kestrel are five years older and five years wiser. The city of Aramanth is still recovering from the...situation from the 1st book but some traditions die hard. Since Bowman, Kestrel, and Mumpo are 15 they have reached a marriageable age but Mumpo is the only one slightly interested in it. But they find they have little time to worry about that. One day they are attacked by the mastery and every one from Aramanth is either killed or enslaves, except Kestrel that is. Mumpo, Bowman, and his family are taken to the Mastery's City where they are surprisingly well treated. But Bowman knows that something isn't right. He has always had a strange gift to sense danger and since his run in with the morah it has only gotten stronger.<br />       Kestrel on the other hand has claimed vengeance on the Mastery, but first she has to find them. On a stroke of luck she runs into the Johdila, a beautiful princess who no one is aloud to see except for her family and personal student. The Johdila (or Sisi) has been betrothed to Ortiz, a man of high power in the Mastery. Kestrel is going to meet up with her twin but he'll be a different person when she meets him.<br />       I really enjoyed this book. While the first book, the Wind Singer, was entertaining, Slaves of Mastery is engrossing. Everything about this book seems more polished and sharp. The characters are more developed and have deeper internal struggles to deal with. They seem more human in a way. The whole atmosphere is very dark and dangerous which Salves of Mastery is not a kids book like The Wind Singer was. <br />Since the kids are older the author can have slightly more mature themes like love and murder. I was very impressed by this book (even though I suspect Mr. Nicholson was writing Gladiator at the time, just look at the manaxa scenes). If you're a fan ofthe last book you should read this one. And if you haven't read the 1st book I also recommend reading that as well.	2002-06-13
1513954:US	49200164	R2RSN85L0WDNDX	0679889175	948974113	First Test: Book 1 of the Protector of the Small Quartet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Start to a new quartet	In the Protector of the Small Series, Tamora Pierce once again visits the same atmosphere that made her first and most famous quartet (the Alanna Series). Keladry wants to become a knight, just like the Alanna the Lioness. But when she enters the palace to begin her training she finds that there is more than she bargained for. Not only does she have to go through the normal stressful busy life that is of a Page, but the fact that she is the first official girl adds to the stress. Unlike the boys, she's under probation, because Lord Wyldon doesn't trust has as a Page. Not to mention the fact that half of the older pages seem to want her to quit, and will do anything to make it that way. But Kel does end up making a few friends Neal, a fellow Page, and Sir Myles, one of her professors. Will she survive the first year of her training as a Page?<br />This book is a thrilling start to a new quartet. Keladry is a great new character who also happens to be a lot different from Alanna (which is great). Sure some of the themes are the same as The First Adventure, which is a bit annoying, but consider the fact that both Kel and Alanna have to go through the same training and considering they're the only girls in the castle, they're going to have some of the same problems. So although this series isn't as good as Alanna (so far) it's still worth reading for any Tamora Pierce fan.	2002-06-10
1514894:US	49200164	R10KB2FNZEKRBI	006447352X	512932093	Fire and Hemlock	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What secrets lie in Polly's Past?	Polly doesn't know why but she has two sets of memories. One is of a normal happy childhood, leading up to what looks to be a normal adulthood. But the other set is strange, hazy and filled with holes. And they all began when she was 10 and accidentally gate crashed s funeral. Here she met Mr. Tom Lynn, the black sheep of the Leroy family. Strangely enough the two start to become friends and create thrilling stories together. But soon strange things start to happen that a 10-year-old Polly cannot understand. The stories start to come real, or she just imagining it? In the next few years of her life Polly struggles to become a hero, while dealing with her parents divorce and her mother's emotional problems but things aren't quite right. What cost is connected to finding out the truth behind the mysterious Mr. Lynn.<br />I wasn't quite sure what to expect with this book. The only other books I've read by Mrs. Wynne Jones have been the Chrestomanci Quartet, but this didn't look like the Harry Potter-like tales of Cat and others. Still, I picked this up (the main reason being it was one of the longest ones of hers on the shelf) and I was not disappointed. Fire and Hemlock is a much more mature story than Chrestomanci, filled with well developed, strange, and real characters. The story is a mystery more than a fantasy and well written as well. If you're a fan of the works of Diane Wynne Jones and mystery/fantasy hybrids read this book! The ending is beyond confusing but it's still very good.	2002-06-09
1516846:US	49200164	R1LOOL95B8F4SL	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not just for kids	Artemis Fowl is not what most people would consider to be a hero. He's a 12 year old prodigy that's smarter than the majority of adults. He lives in Ireland as a cold cruel human being. In fact the only signs that he is really human is the concern he has for his bedridden mother and the wish to see his father, who disappeared years ago, once more. In this book he has a new goal for him, finding Leprechaun gold, and when he kidnaps Captain Holly short, a LEPrechaun and policeman in the underground world where fairy's live. He's willing to do anything to get her gold, and he may end up doing that. Will the her fellow fairies save her in time?<br />I really enjoyed this book. The fairies are unlike any other we've seen before. They are not only magical but they have more powerful technology then we do. They live underground and rarely come to the surface out of fear of being scene. Artemis is also an interesting person who may seem evil and cruel on the surface but he is much more complex underneath. I absolutely love the new style of kids novels that have been surfacing in the past few years. The characters are convincing, the plot is complex, and they're just as magical any novel. If you're a fan of great dark kids books read this. It's an entertaining read.	2002-06-07
1521964:US	49200164	R3Q6R297LHH1WS	0525467238	441091353	The Sight (Action Packs)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Another amazing work by David Clement-Davies	I remember the day I finsihed Fire Bringer I happened to see this in a Book Store. I was estatic. Fire Bringer was one of my favorite epics and this looked to be just as good. And it was! The Sight tells the story of a family of wolves. When Huttser and Palla have two wolf cubs, Larka and Fell, they are shocked when Palla's evil sister Morgra comes for a visit. Morgra is cruel and harsh and wants nothing more than to be a part of the cubs life but the pack denies it. In turn Morgra casts a horrible curse on the pack which touches everyones life in more ways than one. Larka, as she grows up, discovers that she has the Sight, a strange and mysterious power that is both a curse and a gift. Larka hates this, all she wants to be is a normal wolf, but she cannot have this at all. Becasue her new powers are developing quickly and everyone around her is suffering becasue of it. She runs away, seeing it as her only hope, but sooner or later the Legend that everyone fears so much and Larka's destiny must be fufilled.<br />The Sight is an amazing book. Just like Fire Bringer, the author manages to tell a wonderful animal fantasy story while weaving in history, mythology, and religion on the way. The wolf charecters seem more human than anything at times but they also keep their natural insticts, which I find impressive. If you're a fan of Fire Bringer or just animal fantasy read this book.	2002-06-03
1531001:US	49200164	R32ATNDSF1USWX	0142301086	676128059	Seeker (Sweep, No. 10)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Hunter's Story	Before you even read this book ignore the summary that's posted ont this page. It has nothing to do with this book at all. In Seeker Hunter get's to take center stage and narrate his story. WHen he recieves word on where his parents are he's shocked and thrilled. Unfortuantly they're living in Canda, meaning he'll have to leave Morgan, his solemate, for a little while. So he travels up to Canada hoping to see the same mother father that he grew up with and loved so much. But unfortunatly for Hunter things don't turn out that way. He finds himself getting caught up in something strange that he doesn't quite understand. And that's not the only problem he has on his hands. His duty of seeker is called to attenion when he learns of a woman in Canada that has a large collection of true names. What will he do?<br />I really liked the change of pace in this book. For once we don't see the story from Morgan's point of view we see it from Hunters. We get to know what Hunter is thinking and feeling and it's very interesting. I was also thrilled to realize that I could translate pretty much everything that was said in French on my own. Which is a big step for a 11th grade 3rd year C students like me! If you're a fan of the sweep series and, like me, a fan of Hunter, read this book.	2002-05-26
1537078:US	49200164	R1DVK8NH5K2NWY	0142300608	754509866	Fire Bringer	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best animal fantasy since Watership Down....	The Herla (deer) live a simple and traditional life in ancient Scotia. That is until Drail, with his evil right hand man Sgorr (who is literarily the brains behind the operation) strip the Herla of all the traditions they have. They get rid of Anlach, the competition that finds out who will be the leader of the Herla each year, and then brutally murder all the Outriders, including captain Brechin. On that very night Brechin's mate, Eloin has a young male fawn named Rannoch. But even Rannoch's first night his life is filled with tragedy when they discover that he was meant to fulfill an ancient prophesy. To prevent him from being murdered, Rannoch much become a changeling. And as he grows he faces challenge after challenge, surviving only with the help of friends. But what will happen when he's forced to make his final stand by himself. Read this book to fund out.<br />Once I saw that the author of the amazing Watership Down had recommended this book, I knew I had to buy it. I've always been a fan of animal fantasy and this one is one of the best I've ever read. Rannoch's story is moving and exciting, there's rarely a dull moment in this book. The characters almost have human-like quality while staying true to the way of the deer. I'm defiantly going to pick up the second novel by this fine author, The Sight. I recommend this book to fans of animal fantasy, or just animal lovers in general.	2002-05-21
1540183:US	49200164	R1GA8HUMED6KR9	0385327943	585976893	Midnight Predator	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The thrilling 4th novel by a talented young author	In Midnight Predator, teen author Amelia Atwater-Rhodes takes us into new places never seen by fans ever before. Turquoise Draka lives her life dedicated to the Bruja guild, a group of human's who are trained to take out vampires, shape-shifters, and other people connected to the vampire world. In fact she's in the running to become the leader of Crimson, the strongest of the Bruja guild, when a new challenging job is offered to her and another member of Crimson. A mysterious woman wants her to enter Midnight, a strange world run by vampires where humans are treated little better than slaves, and kill off Jeshikah, a dangerous vampire. Secretly, she doesn't want to accept the job, because once she was a human slave to a vampire. She suffered both emotionally and physically under a cruel master. Still, the offer is just to tempting to pass up. When she gets to Midnight she is sold to Jaguar, a strangely kind vampire that treats her with respect. She despises the passive role she has a slave, but knows that if she wants to take out Jeshikah she must remain undercover. Will she complete her job or will she be killed before she can even try?<br />In Amelia Atwater-Rhodes's 4th novel she distances herself from the world we know and love as New Mayhem and enters a new realm. Although all of her characters are stronger and better developed they are a tad bit too similar to characters seen in her past few books. I hope this will be improved in Hawksong. In writing this book Miss Atwater-Rhodes shows better dialog and the pace runs much more smoothly.  I'm not much of a fan of the cover but If you're a fan of her past work you'll love this one. I'm beginning to suspect that young Amy is a LJ Smith fan though. In the past 3 books, some of her plots and characters are awfully similar to her Night World series. Read Black Dawn when if you don't believe me. Still regardless of all that the book is enjoyable and fascinating and is recommended to Amelia Atwater-Rhodes fans.	2002-05-18
1544005:US	49200164	R3I53WA79A8CWP	0679801138	745928914	Lioness Rampant (Song the Lioness #4)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Impressive Final book in the Quartet	Alanna has grown a lot from the bad tempered page in the first adventure, and in this book you really get to see her shine. After parting ways with old friends in hope of a new adventure Alanna travels to Maren where she meets Liam, a tough redhead Shang Dragon who is tougher and stronger than she is, not to mention quite attractive! After the two make friends Alanna sets out with Coram and Liam to find the dominion Jewel, a legendary Jewel that can be a great gift Tortall. Unfortunately Tortall needs the Jewel much more than she suspects. Back in Tortall things are falling apart in more ways than she can ever suspect. But the worst thing that happens is when Alanna discovers that her greatest enemy, Duke Roger of Conte, has raised from the dead with help from her own brother!<br />Lioness Rampant is a thrilling finish to this great series. I was happy to meet great new characters such as Liam and Buri. Pretty much every major character who wasn't killed off (with the exception of one) or exiled has come back for a visit. Like all of Tamora's books Lioness Rampant, and the Alanna series in general, is fast paced and exciting. I can't wait to pick up another magical quartet written by Tamora Pierce.	2002-05-14
1545628:US	49200164	R3I9UAQ1E0NC1G	067980112X	113567060	The Woman Who Rides Like a Man (Song of the Lioness Quartet, Book 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Alanna faces a new challenge	Alanna of Trebond is taking a break from her home at the palace. Since everyone found out about her true sex, she has been worried about how people will react, and she knows that their spreading horrible rumors about her. All she wants to do is go searching for adventures and she gets one, just not the one she suspects. <br />While riding towards the South she is attacked by a strange group of men, she is saved by the Bazhir, enemies of these men but also enemies of the King. They invite her to their village where people look at here either as a goddess or a demon. In the few months she spends their she finds that she must not only protect herself, but train 3 young mages, and unite two groups who have been enemies for generations.<br />The Woman who rides like a man is another exciting edition to the Alanna series. Although I didn't like it as much as the first 2 books I still enjoyed it. The main complaint I have is the book seemed to have two plots, both that could easily be joined with the 2nd and 3rd book. But beyond that it was great. I was happy to see Alanna, George, Sir Myles, Coram and other great old characters and meet new ones. If you're an Alanna fan I recommend reading this book.	2002-05-13
1546447:US	49200164	R3D244FVBESGBO	0671577921	904025755	The War God's Own (War God (Weber))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bahzell's story continues	Bahzell lives quite a different life than he did during the beginning of Oath of Swords. Now he's a champion of Tomanak, the God of war, and he's off on a new mission even more challenging that the last. The book starts out where Oath of Swords ended, Bahzell and Brandark are traveling on their ship and get off at a certain town where, according to Tomanak, someone is waiting for them. There they find Vaijon, a knight of The Order of Tomanak who does not like hradani. Bahzell soon sets of on a journey to his home country, to see his family again, to warn them of Sharna, a dark good who isn't too fond of Bahzell or Tomanak. But of course things can't be that simple. On the way he runs into another possibly even more controversial champion of Tomanak and old favorite friends, and new enemies. And of course on the way he realizes that Bahzell's tribe and Brandark's are close to war. Because life is never simple for Bahzell, but he seems to figure most of it out in the end.<br />In my opinion The War Gods Own is even better than Oath of Swords. Like Oath of Swords this book is filled with action, adventure, humor, and mystery in a fantastic new world. It's great to see the return of such great characters as Wencit and the evil preist. I only pray that Mr. Weber will continue to write more books in this great series.	2002-05-12
1561366:US	49200164	R1K5OF7MK3YW42	0152275177	530476060	The Fifth of March: A Story of the Boston Massacre	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Book on the Boston Massacre	Ann Rinaldi is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors. This is the second book I've read by her with a Revolutionary War theme and quite a good one too. In this book Rachel lives as an indentured servant to the famous bright lawyer John Adams and his intelligent wife Abigail. She's good friends with Jane, a girl who is well known for running with the mobs that are protesting the new taxes in Boston. Her life is changed forever when, as a response to colonial protests on British taxes, Britain sends over troops of soldiers. Rachel cannot stand the soldiers, although she refuses to take sides in the tax scandal but when she meets a young private named Matthew she sees things differently. She quickly becomes friend with Matthew and soon finds herself feeling a deeper kinship towards him. She cannot remain neutral forever. Where do her loyalties remain? She finds out the day Matthew is accused of starting the Boston Massacre.<br />I really enjoyed this book. The Colonial times/Revolutionary war Period has always been of interest to me although I've never had a chance to read a book written about the Boston Massacre. Like all Ann Rinaldi books, The 5th of March is filled with many interesting characters, both fictional and real. If your a fan of historical fiction books or just Ann Rinaldi books I recommend this greatly.	2002-04-30
1563124:US	49200164	R1YSL6UFYUQ9MP	0590396552	933360538	Cold Fire (The Circle Opens #3)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Daja faces an unstoppable Force	Being a smith mage, Daja is experienced in working with fire. And as we saw in Daja's book she also knows how to work against it. But in this book Daja has a bigger problem than ever before, and this time she doesn't have her Sandry, Briar or Tris to help her. <br />In the beginning of the book Daja and Frostpine are living with Frostpine's old friend who has twin daughters, Nia and Jory. Daja discovers that the twins are ambient mages, with powers in carpentry and cooking. Soon Daja is teaching them meditation tactics, which turns out to be much harder than she thought and has started looking for teachers around the city. Unlike Briar and Sandry Daja has no trouble finding them teachers but she finds trouble elsewhere.<br />Fires are occurring like crazy all over the city, fires that Daja and Frostpine get dangerously involved with. Daja befriends a local fire fighter, Ben, and even works to help make him special gloves that will repel fire. But as she becomes more involved with the fire she discovers that they seem too perfect, maybe even set. Soon she is after a deadly arsonist. Can she stop him before it's too late?<br />Just like the rest of the book in the series, Cold Fire has proved to be suspenseful and filled with fun and interesting characters. Daja and Frostpine make wonderful returns and we also get introduced to new great characters like the two very different twins, Jory and Nia. If you're a fan of any of the two Circle quartets read this book. Though it's not as good as Street Magic, in my opinion the best in the series so far, it's still a great book!	2002-04-28
1567262:US	49200164	R2HIQEEYDFWMFV	0439073367	463486581	Girl In Blue	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A thrilling Civil War tale	Ever since she was 13 Sarah has known that she'd never give her life up to a man. But if her father gets his way she'll have to marry a horrible man twice her age that she detests. So when she learn that the Union is looking for soldiers, she disguises herself as a man and quickly signs up. She starts out as a male nurse and soon moves to battle. But when people find out her true sex they are shocked and impressed at Sara's gift for mimicry. They sign her up to work for a spy with Mr. Pinkerton and her first job, to find the Diary of secrets of a fiery confederate female spy, is tougher than she ever suspects.<br />I enjoyed this book very much, I read it all in one day. Sarah's tale is thrilling and accurate to the time it took place. If you enjoy suspenseful historical fiction novels with a bit of adventure and a dash of romance this is for you. Although it doesn't measure up to other Anne Rinaldi books I've read (I found her descriptions to be too brief as someone here already said and occasionally a bit forced) it's defiantly worth a look at. You'll read it in one day I guarantee it.	2002-04-24
1567870:US	49200164	R2QLZ1GV5KUAXE	0671876422	938991157	Oath of Swords	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Impressive Fantasy	Bahzell is an impressive giant sized man with fighting skills and nobility that would impress anyone. But the problem is, he is a hradani, a race of men cursed with a rage that has given them a horrible label of being vicious and terrifying. His life is not plesant but at least it's stable. But everything changes forever when he saves a poor girl from being murdered. Suddenly he has to flee the castle and has a price on his head. People are after then with the power of dark gods on their sides. No body trusts him because he's a hradani, and for some strange reason whenever he does something good his life seems to get complicated even more. Meeting hradani, mages, wizards, dark gods, light gods and assassins on the way Bahzell starts his journey to the gods only know where and discovers his destiny.<br />Although I'm not too experienced with this type of fantasy books I was quite impressed with this one. Bahzell's story is thrilling and filled with suspense. David Weber proves himself as a skillful master of storytelling. He fills his story with just enough detail to give you a solid mental picture of the surroundings but rarely making the story seem tedious. The characters are not always likable but always interesting. I can't wait to read the next book in the series, The War Gods Own. The only complaints I have is it starts out a bit slow and a few parts seem unnecessary (who knows I may be proved wrong in the next book!) but the rest of the book makes it worth it.	2002-04-24
1568052:US	49200164	R1LCNKJB6LQ3JG	0590396285	96459624	Street Magic (The Circle Opens, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Brair's New Tale	Briar doesn't want to get involved in gangs again, since he has his magic now he doesn't think he needs one. And the last thing he wants is the responsibility of having a mage students but unfortunately when he and Rosethorn travel to Chammeur he gets involved in both of those things. Here he meets Evvy a young girl on the streets who has a strange connection with the stones he polishes. He can tell right away that she's a mage, but she doesn't even want to talk to him. He soon realizes that if someone doesn't teach her about her magic, horrible things could happen. And if he doesn't find a stone mage he might have to be that teacher.<br />But Briar has another bigger more complicated problem to deal with. A gang war is started in Chammeur but not one that Briar is used to. A gang called the Vipers is taking over the city in a very dirty way. And because of Briar's knowledge of medicine he is called in to attend to the wounded victims. Soon he becomes too involved with this war and things get very dangerous when the Vipers set their eyes upon Evvy.<br />I was ecstatic to learn that Briar had a book in the series. Next to Tris, Briar is my favorite character. And in this book he shows the world that he's just as powerful of a mage without his \\"foster sisters.\\"...	2002-04-24
1585705:US	49200164	R2NUD0DZROIPJ0	0679801111	613651929	In the Hand of the Goddess (Song of the Lioness #2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Alanna's adventures continue	Alanna has been training to become a knight for a few years now. She's now become Prince Jonathan's squire and a well trained fighter. But she has many challenges to face in this book, as a knight in training and much more. There are many things Alanna is wary about in the beginning of this book, her upcoming ordeal when she's 18, having everyone find out about her being a girl, and the mysterious Duke Roger. During this book Alanna faces many challenges, including her first war, her first love, her ordeal into knighthood, and a meeting with the goddess herself. Alanna's loyalties will be tested and in the end she will half to face her greatest enemy. Will she survive being a squire? Or has all this work been for nothing...<br />In my opinion this is the best book so far in the series. It's filled with action, adventure, friendship, mystery and maybe a bit of romance. ...For one thing this book is in the young adult section (although mostly because of it's violence) and also it's more implied than anything.  ...Tamora Pierce manages to skillfully steer away from actually saying it but getting the actual subject out quite clearly. Besides this book is filled with a good plot line and great character development, which is really the great thing about books. If you're a fan of the last book, read this. You'll love it.	2002-04-10
1587637:US	49200164	R2FXNLGCD9I9DP	0786824948	393951124	The Wind Singer (The Wind on Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Impressive Start to a the Wind on Fire Trilogy	Bowman and Kestrel live in Aramanth, a so called perfect city where you are constantly tested from age 2 on, and the results of your \\"exams\\" can affect where you life and they way you life your life. In this Utopian society people are all considered equal, or so the high examiners claim. When young Kestrel decides to push the limits of the High Examiners that live in Aramanth she realizes that she might have gone too far. She learns about the secret of the wind singer, a strange structure in there town that was rumored to sing in the wind many years ago. She learns that the town she lives in is no more than a prison, and it's up to her and her brother to save everyone from the evil Morah. Setting out on a journey to places unknown with the slow and stupid Mumpo, the children make friends and enemies, running for their lives. Can they make the wind singer sing again? Can they survive?<br />Though this books interesting style took a while to get used to I soon grew to really appreciate what it was about. On the outside it is a well crafted fantasy that readers of all ages will enjoy, but beneath it all is a serious story concerning society, a twisted class system, and life. The city of Aramanth is intriguing but also terrifying, considering that the society they created has many times been attempted to make in the real world. The three children's tales though the desert and towards the Morah are thrilling and occasionally symbolic.<br />I really enjoyed reading this book and I'm looking foreword to soon picking up the next book in the trilogy, Slaves and Mastery. I would recommend this to fans of all ages, almost anyone can get something out of this book.	2002-04-08
1588171:US	49200164	R11HARD5DQE69K	0679801146	154445009	Alanna: The First Adventure (Song of the Lioness, Vol. 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The First book in the Song of the Loiness Quartet	Alanna of Trebond may be young but she knows what's right for her in life. Every girl where she lives is required to live at the convent and learn to be proper ladies until they are of a marriageable age. Alanna, who has spent most of her life learning how to fight and survive knows it not for her, and her brother who dreams of being a great sorcerer, knows becoming a knight is not for him. So, on a whim, Alanna decides to pretend to be a boy and go into knight training while her brother studies to become a sorcerer. Alanna, now known as Alan, soon discovers that life in training for knighthood is far from easy. Her days are filled with studying and training. Not to mention that, Ralon, the castle bully, has decided to make her life as miserable as possible, and the troubles of just being a girl and trying to hide it. But maybe with the help of a few new friends, including the castle prince and a craftily thief, Alanna just may survive being a page.<br />That is of course if she can keep her true sex a secret.<br />I was delighted with this book. Tamora Pierce weaves a tale of a fantasy medieval world while breaking the boundaries of stereotypes in the process. Alanna is a wonderful heroine that everyone will grow to love. If you're a fan of fantasy books such as the Harry Potter series, or the Conjurer Princess by Vivian Van Veld, or of medieval books this is for you. I recommend this book to fans of Tamora Pierce's works and kids/YA fantasy.	2002-04-08
1594226:US	49200164	R11MMYOE5FY8O3	0399235809	577078807	The Edge on the Sword	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best Historical Fiction Novels I've ever read	AEthelflaed (or Flaed for short) lives in late 9th century England. At 15 she lives a happy life as the Kings daughter and a wannabe scholar. But when she learns that her father has, for political reasons, betrothed her to a man she's never met before she watches in shock as the little freedom she has left drifts away. Her father hires a guard named Red to protect her. In the beginning Flaed finds ways to escape from his watchful gaze but when something horrible happens Flaed realizes the seriousness of the situation she's in. Red teaches her how to defend herself, how to fight and use a shield. But when her skills are put to the test will she emerge victorious?<br />This is truly one of the best historical fiction novels I've ever read. Based on the real life story of one of England's most influential women, The Edge on the Sword weaves a wonderful tale of a strong young girl and her life. I recommend this books to fans of such historical novels as Anna of Byzantium and medieval novels such as the Crown and Court Duel.	2002-04-03
1595488:US	49200164	R1BY8UAMKGMV45	0399235809	577078807	The Edge on the Sword	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the Best Historical Fiction Novels I've ever read	AEthelflaed (or Flaed for short) lives in late 9th century England. At 15 she lives a happy life as the Kings daughter and a wannabe scholar. But when she learns that her father has, for political reasons, betrothed her to a man she's never met before she watches in shock as the little freedom she has left drifts away. Her father hires a guard named Red to protect her. In the beginning Flaed finds ways to escape from his watchful gaze but when something horrible happens Flaed realizes the seriousness of the situation she's in. Red teaches her how to defend herself, how to fight and use a shield. But when her skills are put to the test will she emerge victorious?<br />This is truly one of the best historical fiction novels I've ever read. Based on the real life story of one of England's most influential women, The Edge on the Sword weaves a wonderful tale of a strong young girl and her life. I recommend this books to fans of such historical novels as Anna of Byzantium and medieval novels such as the Crown and Court Duel.	2002-04-03
1595596:US	49200164	R19R0MRN6YUMLL	0399235809	577078807	The Edge on the Sword	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the Best Historical Fiction Novels I've ever read	AEthelflaed (or Flaed for short) lives in late 9th century England. At 15 she lives a happy life as the Kings daughter and a wannabe scholar. But when she learns that her father has, for political reasons, betrothed her to a man she's never met before she watches in shock as the little freedom she has left drifts away. Her father hires a guard named Red to protect her. In the beginning Flaed finds ways to escape from his watchful gaze but when something horrible happens Flaed realizes the seriousness of the situation she's in. Red teaches her how to defend herself, how to fight and use a shield. But when her skills are put to the test will she emerge victorious?<br />This is truly one of the best historical fiction novels I've ever read. Based on the real life story of one of England's most influential women, The Edge on the Sword weaves a wonderful tale of a strong young girl and her life. I recommend this books to fans of such historical novels as Anna of Byzantium and medieval novels such as the Crown and Court Duel.	2002-04-03
1598061:US	49200164	R32SS8EJFU4AMY	0064408086	124620826	Ascension (Water Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The enchanting 1st book in the Water trilogy	If you like books about Atlantis and underwater creautres this is for you. Sixteen-year-old Nia is a mermyd of the bluefin clan who dreams of becoming and Avatar like her grandfather. She knows that even despite human-like features she is strong enough, fast enough, smart enough, and has enough magical ability to enter the trials, the Olympic games that will decide who will become the next Avatar. But when her cousin Garun who seems to be more boring and ordinary wins the place over her, Nia is crushed, and confused. After doing a bit of detective work she discovers that there's a force working behind Garun, a force that is going to make sure that he will win, not if Nia has anything to say about it. I really enjoyed this book. Nia is a likeable charecter who almost seems like a real person at time (outside of the fact that she's a mermyd). Like all 16 year old girls she has a crush (Cephan) and doesn't get along with her parents, but unlike most 16 year olds she's brave and willing to do what's right. <br />If you like supernatural series with a pinch of sci fi I reccomend this strongly.	2002-04-01
1599481:US	49200164	RCRXIHPXHARAO	0060006072	400098822	Initiation (Circle of Three, No.15)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Final book in an amazing series	In Initiation, the 15th and final book in the Circle of Three series, the time that the three girls thought they'd be excited about is here. But now things are different. As we found out in the last book Cooper isn't going to be aloud to be initiated and she doesn't understand why. Her life gets even more complicated when she finds out her father is dating again, and it's the woman she hates the most in the world. Everything that's she's looked foreword to all year is falling apart. Life is no picnic for Kate and Annie either. They are faced with the difficult decision of choosing a coven and chances are they will be separated. Kate doesn't know how to react and she's caught off guard when her ex-boyfriend Tyler starts to spend time with her again. And Annie's helping her aunt prepare for her wedding, what happens when everything falls apart in the end. Will the girls even be initiated? Read this book to find out.<br />Just like many fans I was very sad to see this series end, but in a way I'm also happy. Isobel Bird has managed to deliver 15 strong books into a supernatural teen series without having them die out before she ended the series. This book is just as great as any of the books in the series, amazing things will happen that will change the three girls lives forever. It's amazing to see how much all of the major (and some minor) characters have grown in the series. I'm really glad I've read this series it's helped me understand a lot more about wicca as a different but beautiful religion. If you're a fan of the series reading this book is a must. Good luck reading and as one of the witches in the series would say, Blessed Be.	2002-03-31
1601363:US	49200164	R66KN1NOYQGL4	0060006064	440141763	Circle of Three #14: The Challenge Box	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cooper, Kate, and Annie's Final challenges	The challenge box is a strange thing. It's a small box filled with slips of paper which have certain challenges written onto it that Kate, Cooper, and Annie have to take in order to become initiated. Each of them has a challenge but it may be harder to complete than they ever imagined. Kate find herself plagues with questions that challenge her faith and beliefs. She wants to become a witch but is she ready? She's faced with another challenge when she's forced to work on yet another project with Sherrie, the girls she despises the most. Annie has finally meet her older sister in New Orleans and she and Cooper are immersed in the rich culture of New Orleans. But there's a question in the back of Annie's mind. Will he sister accept her if she knew she was Wiccan? And Cooper finds herself facing many things that she's uncomfortable or afraid of. Will she have the courage to face her greatest fear?<br />It's sad to see that such a great series is going to be over after I finish up the next book. But as they say all good things come to an end. The Challenge Box was yet another entertaining story about the three girls facing tough questions and making hard decisions about life. And the ending is quite a shocker too. I agree with whoever said it was a cruel place to leave us fans but it was quite an ending. Everyone who has been a fan of this series should read this book. I have the 15th and final book. Initiation, in my room waiting too be read.	2002-03-29
1607507:US	49200164	RXYV7BP2WDQ6V	0061067156	248310032	The Captive (The Secret Circle #2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The thrilling second book in the Secret Circle Trilogy	Cassie's not the same person as she was before she came to New Salem. Now she's a witch, and she just might be a powerful one too. She's fallen in love but with Adam, someone she can never have. When Faye, a \\"wicked\\" witch from her coven catches the two of them kissing she blackmails Cassie. Either Cassie steals the crystal skull, one of the legendary old tools with dark powers, and gives it to Faye or Faye will tell Diana, Cassie's almost sister like friend and Adam's girlfriend everything that happened. Cassie has no choice, her devotion to Diana is too strong. But when dark horrible things start to happen, deaths, Cassie feels responsible. Is she would have acted differently would things have turned out differently? Cassie barely has anytime to think because Faye has more favors to ask, including one that might tip the balance of good and evil in New Salem forever.<br />I really enjoyed this book. Cassie is just a realistic character (outside of the supernatural witch thing) and Nick and Deborah are becoming fast favorites with me. If you enjoyed the fast paced thrilling plot of The Initiation, you need to read this book. I highly recommend it to fans of supernatural teen witch series and LJ Smith's Night World Series. I can't wait to read the conclusion to the series, The Power. The ending is quite a cliffhanger.	2002-03-24
1608764:US	49200164	R1YLQUWTCYM4AB	0061067121	349093398	The Initiation (The Secret Circle, Vol. 1) (No. 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	If you loved Night World....	...then this is for you.<br />Cassie never wanted to move to New Salem, but when a strange twist of events force her to live their she has no idea what she's getting into. The high school is strange, full off oddly beautiful, strange, and powerful people that she wants nothing to do with. ALl she wants is to have friends and fit in, like any normal girl. But when she bumps heads with members of a mysterious club that somehow controls the school she finds herself as a victim to many mean pranks, that are getting worse and worse as they continue. When she meets Diane, a mysterious senior who runs the club, she finds herself strangely drawn to her, like a sister. At first she's unsure if she unsure if she should trust her but it's hard not to. As the two girls become friends Cassie becomes suspecious of this club. What's it about? How can the memebrs to such amazing things? She's even more shocked when she finds out that Diane's boyfriend is the odd boy she feel in love with only after in hour during the summer. To her displeasure and delight she finds her life intertwined with this club, and finds out that what they're involved with is much more magickal than she's ever believed.<br />If you are a fan on LJ Smith's Night world Series, the Sweep Series, or the Circle of Three series I reccomend you read this. It has anything you could want in a teen book, magic, mystery, romance, suspense, horror... you'll love it trust me. I reccomend this to fans of teen supernatural fiction. I can't wait to read the next two books in the trilogu, The Captive, and The power.	2002-03-23
1615239:US	49200164	R1KW4GS228S0O6	0590554115	381788485	Briar's Book (Circle of Magic #4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Briar's Big Challenge	Briar, the sole male member of discipline, has always possessed a great talent when it comes to plant magic. He learns how to develop his gifts with Rosethorn, his teacher, but he still remembers his past on the streets. But he has no idea that one day his connection to the streets will bring him in contact with a more powerful enemy than ever before. When one of his street friends catches a deadly virus Briar and Rosethorn are put to the test. As the disease spreads everyone at Winding Circle temple is tested. For the first time since the four children met each other, they are forced apart for a prolonged period of time. Briar and Rosethron are busy treating the disease, and more importantly, trying to identify it. Sandry, Lark, Daja, Frostpipe, Niko and Tris are working hard back at Winding Circle. But will all their hard work be enough? Can they find a cure? And what will happen when something shocking happens to one of the series most beloved characters?<br />Briar's book, the fourth and final book in the series, is one of the greatest. Briar's always been one of my favorite characters, next to Tris. I was excited in seeing him star in his own book. Just like the rest of the books in the series Briar's book is filled with wonderful characters and character development, a fast paced plot, and wonderful setting. If you're a fan of the Circle of Magic series read this book to see how everything ends. I recommend this to Tamora Pierce fans and fans of the series. You'll love this one as much as I did.	2002-03-18
1615333:US	49200164	R23FVB4VFF7X2E	0590396056	787807638	Magic Steps (The Circle Opens, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An exciting start to a new series	In Magic steps, Sandry is four years older and four years wiser. Her talent with threadcraft is famous all through Summersea and many people know both her and her friends', Tris, Briar, and Daja's names. When she travels to her uncle, Duke Vedris's, lands to help him recover from a heart attack she plans on putting all of her energy into helping him. But two things happen that changes everything. Sandry meets a young boy named Pasco, who can dance with such magic that few people have ever seen before. Pasco, a future harrier (police guard) of Summersea refuses to admit he has any talent but Sandry isn't giving up on him that easily. Another challenge faces Sandry when horrible murders start to occur in her uncles lands, murders that are distinctly linked to magic, murders that Sandry cannot ignore.<br />I was a bit dubious with this book. Sandry has always been my least favorite character of the series, but I was happy to see she's improved in the past four years and has grown into a wonderful character. Yes, Magic Steps, is a lot more gruesome than the rest of Tamora Pierce's Magic Circle books, but people are making too big of a deal over it. The story behind it is satisfying and exciting, and that's what really matters anyway. If you want to read about Sandry and Lark after the Magic Circle Series, pick up this book!	2002-03-18
1618070:US	49200164	R1BJ8GPD0U8W4F	0689843372	48873104	Gingerbread	Books	4	3	7	N	N	A not-quite-real story of a former bad girl	Gingerbread isn't your average novel of a bad girl. It doesn't tell about a girls emergence and recovery of drugs, sex, alcohol, and guys. Gingerbread is the story of what happens after. Cyd Charisse is a so called \\"reformed\\" bad girl who slips from time to time. She lives in San Francisco with her parents (Sid and Nancy, if you can believe that) and two siblings. Her best friend is a woman named Sugar Pie who lives at a nursing home and her boyfriend is an artist named Shrimp. Her life isn't normal but it works. But when something happens she finds herself finally being able to meet her real father in New York City. She pictures a picture perfect meeting and a beautiful relationship blossoming between them. Unfortunately she doesn't quite get that.<br />Though it starts out a bit slow with the first few chapters, Gingerbread soon kicks in to an interesting story about a girl and her doll (yes, she's 16 and still carries around a doll) who learn more about themselves and the world they live in. Though the dialog is a bit strange I think the slang is meant to be over the top at times. If you're a fan of teenage humor such as Angus Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging, and teenage angst such as Love and other Four Letter Words, this is a book for you. I recommend it.	2002-03-16
1620289:US	49200164	R1WY7Y4RKGKG11	0802137938	829572503	Downers Grove	Books	3	1	4	N	N	It had such good potential	When I first picked up this book I was very excited. It looked like just the kind of book I'd love to read. The plot line looked interesting and the back of the book made me laugh. And as I started to read it this high didn't wear off the first several chapters are honest, humorous, and real, Chrissie stars out as an intriguing character that can make you laugh or cry. It starts out about a story of an average girl. She lives with her dead beat brother and single mother. Her father ran off years ago and she hasn't heard from him since. She has a crush on the older sexier car mechanic at the place where she gets her gas. Her best friend has amazing luck with guys that Chrissie doesn't seem to posses. And she's terrified that before school ends she's gonna die. Because at her school someone always dies before graduation. Somewhere in this book a perfectly good story just dies. The characters become emotionless, the author seems to eager on having them talk in a hip Buffy-The-Vampire-Slayer-esque witty way then really developing them to their full potential and in the end the author just seems to give up. <br />I give this book 3 stars because of the beginning and the potential it had to be great. I just wish the author would have spent a little more time on it to make it better. I'm sure there will be a lot of people out their who will love this book more than I do but it's just not my cup o' tea. If you wanna read good adolescent angst I suggest reading Sloppy firsts or Love and other Four Letter words.	2002-03-14
1622819:US	49200164	R1RKTWEAURWU6T	0385326262	457252494	Anna of Byzantium	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Brilliant piece of Historical Fiction!	Anna is a heroine like no other. She is neither compassionate or kind, in fact some people would disagree to her being called a heroine but that's beside the point. Anna is a strong, often power hungry and conceited character, that remains true to the woman she was based upon. Anna of Byzantium is a historical fiction novel about a young girl growing up in the Byzantine empire. She is a Princess, the heir to the throne, betrothed at infancy to a man she barely knows. Anna wants nothing more than to be empress, to have power, and to rule. She learns from her grandmother the arts of cunning and strategy and learns history and becomes a scholar in the palace walls. But one day she is stripped from everything she hold dear to her. Her brother is now heir to the throne, and she will never be empress. Anna is furious and she will do anything to get her revenge. <br />I found this book to be very entreating. It's quite a page turner. Knowing little of the Byzantine empire, I was unsure of what I was getting myself into but I'm glad I did. Anna is an intriguing character. The characters of her mother and grandmother are skillfully crafted. I recommend this book to anyone who's a fan of historical fiction taking place in the dark ages.	2002-03-12
1625421:US	49200164	RNZAHLKIFSSNL	0671039946	595390352	Ice (Shooting Stars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The second book in the SHooting Stars Series	I was very wary on reading this book as a result of all the negative reviews. But scrolling down to some of the more earlier ones I realized that I should give it a chance and I wasn't really disappointed. Ice is an entertaining novel to the series that deserves 3 or 4 stars (since I like the series so much I gave it the benefit of the doubt and gave the book 4 stars instead of 3). Ice tells the story about a shy teenager named Ice. When Ice is very young her school psychologist gives her the label elective mute because it seems like she chooses never to speak and in so many ways that is true. At 17, she lives with her narcissistic mother and her silent father and very rarely talks herself. The only time she ever really opens her mouth is to sing in her church choir or sing old jazz tunes to her father. Her voice is so beautiful that she finds she may have the chance to change her life forever, but not if her mother has her way. If you enjoy VC Andrews mini-series I recommend you read this. I can't wait to read the next books in the series (the 3rd being Honey). Enjoy!	2002-03-10
1625821:US	49200164	ROX1DHVGOA4C9	0671039946	872202002	Ice (Shooting Stars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The second book in the SHooting Stars Series	I was very wary on reading this book as a result of all the negative reviews. But scrolling down to some of the more earlier ones I realized that I should give it a chance and I wasn't really disappointed. Ice is an entertaining novel to the series that deserves 3 or 4 stars (since I like the series so much I gave it the benefit of the doubt and gave the book 4 stars instead of 3). Ice tells the story about a shy teenager named Ice. When Ice is very young her school psychologist gives her the label elective mute because it seems like she chooses never to speak and in so many ways that is true. At 17, she lives with her narcissistic mother and her silent father and very rarely talks herself. The only time she ever really opens her mouth is to sing in her church choir or sing old jazz tunes to her father. Her voice is so beautiful that she finds she may have the chance to change her life forever, but not if her mother has her way. If you enjoy VC Andrews mini-series I recommend you read this. I can't wait to read the next books in the series (the 3rd being Honey). Enjoy!	2002-03-10
1626592:US	49200164	RSWP54F1P4ZVU	0142301078	1988339	Strife (Sweep, No. 9)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What's happening to Morgan?	Morgan's life is very similar in Strife as it was in the last book in the series. Her grades are horrible, her powers are strong but she needs to learn control, and her relationship with her parents are weak. In this book these few problems spin out of control. Morgan knows her father, Ciaran, is out there and even though the council is following him she still needs to protect herself. Hunter sets her up with a teacher that will show her out to protect herself and control her magic when strange things start to happen. Things fly everywhere, books, papers, anything at all, around Morgan. Morgan can feel that she's not doing it but who else could it be? Her father? Or someone else.<br />TO complicate things further her parents, who have never really approved of her studying Wicca, find out about her horrible grades at school. They blame the thing that has taken up so much time in her life, Wicca. Morgan knows they are right but she cannot let go of being a witch, it's a part of her. The problem is her parents don't understand that. And if the strange power around her doesn't kill her first, she may be taken away from everything she knows.<br />I found Strife to be an entertaining edition of the series. Like all of the books it was suspenseful, magickal, and a page turner. The problem was their was really no mystery in it. It was a tad bit predictable. But the great storyline nearly makes up for it. If you love the Sweep Series I recommend this book to you. I can't wait till the next one comes out!	2002-03-09
1634395:US	49200164	R1116L9ME943G3	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Enchanting	Memoirs of a Geisha by Arthur Golden has to be one of the greatest books I've ever read. Though it is a fictional novel, it's told like a memoir of a famous Japanese Geisha. The story starts out like this. When Chiyo is a young girl she and her sister are taken from the Japanese fishing village they live in and brought to Kyoto, a famous Geisha district. And when Chiyo and her sister are separated Chiyo is left alone in a Geisha house defenseless to the cruel and conceited Hatsumoto and tough leaders of the house. Miserable and lonely Chiyo has no idea that she will one day become Sayuri, a famous Japanese Geisha that people will talk about for years. Memoirs of a geisha is not only a fascinating story filled with a colorful cast of characters and a brilliant story line but it is also historically satisfying and accurate. If you've ever wanted to learn about the customs and practices of the Japanese Geisha, or just want to read an amazing book, read this. I swear you will not be disappointed. I only hope Liza Dalby (the only westerner ever to become a Geisha) does a good job in creating the movie. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.	2002-03-03
1641702:US	49200164	R32NKUH9WQGZPO	0590554107	822378783	Daja's Book (Circle of Magic, No.3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Magical eddition to the Circle of Magic series	In Daja's book, Daja, Tris, Sandry, and Briar, along with their teachers Frostpipe, Niko, Lark, and Rosethorn are on a mission away from their familiar home at Winding Circle Temple. Up north people are facing a three year drought, along with many grassfires, causing them to lose their most precious crops. But when the four children arrive they find other problems. Ever since Sandry bound their powers together during the earthquake (at the end of Sandry's book) strange things have been happening. Their powers seem to be rubbing off on eachother. The result being a very strange plant that seems to be made of metal. Daja also finds herself facing another problem when, for the first time since becoming a mage, she encounters a fellow trader, which has interesting results. By the end of this book she's forced to make a difficult decision that will effect her life forever.<br />I was very impressed with this book. Though not as good as Tris's book, Daja's book continues to develope the charecters were learing to know and love by facing them with new challenges that bonds them together and tears them apart. The new charecters are just as great! If you're a fan of this series you must read this book. It may be the shorest in the series but it's still a great work of fantasy.	2002-02-25
1642742:US	49200164	RYLSQX0MPFFP6	0061057045	591885108	The Conjurer Princess	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lylene is not your average heroine	When awkward 16-year-old Lylene's sister is kidnapped at her own wedding Lylene will do anything to get her back. Even if it means dragging herself to the local wizard, offering her services in cooking and cleaning in order to learn magic. The wizard she works for isn't kind or good, he's shrewed and selfish but does manage to give her magic... with interesting results. Suddenly Lylene is on her own with new powers that she doesn't understand and can't always control but she still needs to finish her mission. Meeting two new unlikely companions, Weiland and Shile, the three set off to rescue Lylene's rescue, but it may prove to be too dangerous for them.<br />I thought this book was entertaining and amusing. Lylene's adventure is exciting. You'll want to read this book in one sitting. The only complaint I have with it are the serious lack of good descriptions. It makes the book seemed rushed at times. but if you like fast paced books you probably won't mind. Having only read one book before by Vivian Vande Velde before this I'm new interested in reading another. It's sequel, the Challengeing Prince, looks just as good. I reccomend this to you if you love young adult fantasy novels that takes place in midevil times. Enjoy!	2002-02-24
1643115:US	49200164	R1OD9KNCR2BWPK	0590554093	782516599	Tris's Book (Circle of Magic #2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Four children have a new challenge to face	As the second book in the Circle of Magic series, Tris's book proves to be even better than the last. Having a more darker air this book pulls you in with it's vivid descriptions and wonderful charecters, expecially Tris. Ever since the four young mages living at Winding Circle, Tris, Daja, Briar, and Sandry, joined their powers with Sandry's weaving strange things have been happening. They can talk to eachother through their minds, and hear peoples voices on the wind, a talent only TRis used to posess. Their powers have been connected somehow and they don't know why. But they are put to the test when Pirats attack the only home they know about. People are dying and no one knows how to stop them. What can they do to protect their home? If you want to find out read this book. I found it to be even better than the last. I reccomend this book to people who love Sandry's book, magical midevil fiction, or Tamora Pierce's work.	2002-02-24
1644986:US	49200164	R1XXDX05CJXAKO	0441644511	190761387	The Outlaws of Sherwood (Ace Fantasy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant Storytelling!	The Outlaws of Sherwood tells the tale of Robin Hood in ways that we have never seen him before. The author, Robin McKinley, doesn't picture him as the always right, always perfect outlaw and expert archer that has inspired books, movies, and TV shows. She creates him as a more human charecter that is often moody, and only a satisfactory archer. But still he is no less heroic than in the fairy tales we have heard before. He is still just as loyal, brave, and wonderful. Robin McKinley brings Robin and other well known characters (Maid Marian, Will Scarlet, Little John, Frair Tuck to name a few) to a new light. The story begins when Robin, accidentally committing an unforgivable act is forced into hiding. With the help of his good friend (Marian and Much) and a few new ones they start out a new life in Sherwood forrest. Soon rumors are traveling across the land about Robin Hood, an debonair, brave, skilled archer who steals from the rich and gives to the poor. Robin and his friends are seen as heros, but how long will this last?<br />McKinley writes beautifully and really brings the story to life. If you're a fan of Robin Hood, or want to be I reccomend this book to you! It's really just amazing!	2002-02-22
1648579:US	49200164	R33ERPF1JXAXV2	0590554085	552681243	Sandry's Book (Circle of Magic, Book 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	If only I had picked this up a few years ago	For some strange reason, in all the years I've been reading fantasy, I haven't picked up many Tamora  Pierce books. Now it's not that I dislike them, I find them to be quite interesting, but I never really got into them. Now I'm 16 and probably a bit too old to be getting into these books but I still love them. Sandry's book is the first book in a fantasy quartet about four young adults with special gifts. The first book introduces us to the four main charecters: Sandry, the bright and friendly noble girl who has a strange gift for weaveing, Daja, a headstrong Trader who is considered cursed by her people, Triss, a stubborn young girl who's power over the weather mystifies even herself, and Briar, a street smart theif who has a strange gift with plant life. These four children live dark lives until they are brought to a temple by Master Niko. Here they learn about magic hidden deep inside of them and begin to learn how to control it. But if the four strong-willed young people cannot bind together they may find themselves in terrible peril.<br />I found this book to be magical, entertaining, and exciting. THe only complaint I had with it is how the charecters were first found by Niko and that's more something that irks me than anything. I wish I could have picked this up a few years ago, I may have enjoyed it even more. I will definatly pick up the final three books in this series. I can't wait to see what happens to these four appealing charecters.	2002-02-19
1649737:US	49200164	R7B0O37XDAM1I	0142300578	534153811	Changeling (Sweep, No. 8)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	WHat will happen when Morgan is tempted by evil?	Morgan wants nothing to do with Hunter or her coven anymore. Ever since she found out who her father really was she considers herself to be tainted and cursed. But when someone from the council pays her a visit she realizes that she is the only one that can possibly stop her fathers coven from committing a horrible act that will kill someone she holds near and dear. Morgan commits herself to stopping this from happening but the only way she can is to reach out to the brother she never knew, Killian. Tossing herself into a world of magic she's never felt before Morgan's dark side is tempted by the carefree lifestyle of Killian and then the evil and powerful world of her father. What will she choose to be? Good or evil?<br />I found this to be a very good book in the series. Once again Morgan is put to the test and has to prove herself to be a good witch. The only complaint I have with this is I'm getting a bit annoyed with Morgan's little magical \\"mistakes.\\" But beyond that I was very impressed with it. I can't wait to read the 9th book in the series, Strife. I recommend this book to any fans of the series.	2002-02-19
1659654:US	49200164	RXTVWAVL0SRL0	0439324599	690123527	Cut	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Emotional and orginal	15-year-old Callie has been institutionalized for what she's doing to herself. She cuts her wrists, arms, and hands and she doesn't know why. It could be her parents who don't know how to deal or her brother who is very sick or maybe something else. She doesn't know. But she's not willing to ask for help. In fact she's not talking at all. She doesn't say a single word in therapy, or group therapy where both girls with eating disorders, and drug addictions talk about their problems. As Callie starts to come out of her shell and speak in therapy a new girl comes to the clinic who cuts herself and shows off her scars with pride. Cut is amazing book about an issue that is rarely dealt with in teenage literature but is often dealt with in real life. If you enjoyed books such as Girl interupted and want to learn more about self mutilation and mental hospitals, or just read a great YA book, this is for you. I reccomend this to anyone who's a fan of realistic teenage books.	2002-02-10
1660139:US	49200164	R2ZVYIMCFPJMV1	1550376640	565767012	Leslie's Journal (Doghouse Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great journal book	Leslie lives in Canada with a less than easy life. Her grades are down the tubes, her parents have spilt up, and she only has one friend. And to top it off everyone seems to think she's going through another \\"phase.\\" When her English teacher assigns a journal writing project for class she's less than happy than to start writing in it. At first her pages are filled with insulting her teachers, classmates, and her best friend Katie's mother but when she meets Jason everything changes. Jason is an older guy that thrills her like no other. She's estatic when he asks her out on a date. But when their romance turns dangerous she find that she can't get out, can't escape what she's going through. How will she survive this abusive relationship. Leslie's journal is a great journal about living through an abusive relationship with a horrible guy. Leslie's writings are funny, emotional, and at times shocking, without a shred of self pity. If your a fan of books like Trecherous Love or Speak I reccomend this to you. It's really quite an amazing book.	2002-02-10
1660386:US	49200164	R28KL6DHU12PBG	0439324599	690123527	Cut	Books	5	50	64	N	N	Emotional and orginal	15-year-old Callie has been institutionalized for what she's doing to herself. She cuts her wrists, arms, and hands and she doesn't know why. It could be her parents who don't know how to deal or her brother who is very sick or maybe something else. She doesn't know. But she's not willing to ask for help. In fact she's not talking at all. She doesn't say a single word in therapy, or group therapy where both girls with eating disorders, and drug addictions talk about their problems. As Callie starts to come out of her shell and speak in therapy a new girl comes to the clinic who cuts herself and shows off her scars with pride. Cut is amazing book about an issue that is rarely dealt with in teenage literature but is often dealt with in real life. If you enjoyed books such as Girl interupted and want to learn more about self mutilation and mental hospitals, or just read a great YA book, this is for you. I reccomend this to anyone who's a fan of realistic teenage books.	2002-02-10
1660407:US	49200164	RA14U6XDX5HJ0	1550376640	565767012	Leslie's Journal (Doghouse Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great journal book	Leslie lives in Canada with a less than easy life. Her grades are down the tubes, her parents have spilt up, and she only has one friend. And to top it off everyone seems to think she's going through another \\"phase.\\" When her English teacher assigns a journal writing project for class she's less than happy than to start writing in it. At first her pages are filled with insulting her teachers, classmates, and her best friend Katie's mother but when she meets Jason everything changes. Jason is an older guy that thrills her like no other. She's estatic when he asks her out on a date. But when their romance turns dangerous she find that she can't get out, can't escape what she's going through. How will she survive this abusive relationship. Leslie's journal is a great journal about living through an abusive relationship with a horrible guy. Leslie's writings are funny, emotional, and at times shocking, without a shred of self pity. If your a fan of books like Trecherous Love or Speak I reccomend this to you. It's really quite an amazing book.	2002-02-10
1669119:US	49200164	R29CALLCJ6BUF6	0738700495	606826042	Witches' Key to Terror	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An entertaining book staring the WNO crew	When Bethany Salem and her two beast friends, Nam and Tillie, start to work on a farm they have no idea the kind of mystery they'll find. The people on the farm are odd. An overprotective father, a pair of home-schooled twins, an ex-marine that walks around with a shot-gun, a girl around their age that will do anything to make them miserable becasue their witches... But these people are nothing compared to the dangerous things that start to happen. A poisioned apple, a string of accidents, magickal charms ment to bring negative energy and much more. Even after the WNO crew has been fired they find themselves drawn to the farm and the mystery underneath. But are they getting involved in something too deadly?<br />I haven't read a Witches Night Out book in a while but I was happy to read this one. Once again Bethany, Nam, Tillie, and Sidney get themselves involved with a mystery that is both intrigueing and dangerous. The only complaint I have is the book was rather predictable in some moments, but not in others. If you're a fan of such teen series as the Daughters of the Moon, or the Circle of Three series, I recomend this series to you.	2002-02-03
1669429:US	49200164	R2S46DBPJAQVY4	0345339711	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Find out what happens after the breaking of the fellowship..	At the end of Fellowship of the Rings, Frodo and Sam have left the fellowship to destroy the ring in Mordor but what happens after that. Divided into two books, (one for Aragorn, Legolas, Merry, Pippin, Gimli and everyone else. And one for Sam and Frodo) this story answers that question. The first book (and my preferred part) tells about how Merry and Pippin are captured by Orcs. Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli must rescue them before it's too late, friends and enemies on the way. But when they reunite with an old friend they learn that they must help to defeat the evil dark wizard Saruman.<br />The second book follows Sam and Frodo on their long journey to destroy the ring. Frodo is weakening slowly under the rings weight and needs help if he wants to finish his quest. But when he receives that help in the shape of Gollum, a dark creature who is more or less a slave to the ring (his \\"precious\\") Sam is less sure than Frodo to accept his help. Gollum may seem harmless but what plans does he have for the two young hobbits? Is he being a faithful guide or leading them into danger?<br />I really enjoyed this book. In my opinion it was even better than the last. The first volume of this book was my favorite due to the extensive presence of my favorite character Aragorn and the creating of a new kind of friend called the Ents. This book was well written and the characters drawn wonderfully. I can't wait to read the next and final book in the trilogy. Just like the last one the end leaves you with quite a cliff hanger.	2002-02-02
1678908:US	49200164	R1KUZ5932L1Y98	0689829833	400011174	The Dark is Rising (The Dark is Rising Sequence)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great fantasy for all ages!	In the second book of Susan Cooper's The Dark is Rising Series, Will Stanton turns 11 he discovers that he is not just an ordinary child but much more. He is one of the Old Ones, a group of immortals who dedicate themselves to fighting against the dark. And Will is not only the first one of these immortals born in 500 years, he is also the last. But becasue of this he's faced with a very large task against the dark. The Dark is rising and the only way to stop them is for Will to collect the 6 signs. Will will be able to collect all the 6 signs before the dark rises? In my opinion the Dark is rising was even better than Over Sea Under Stone! Like a lot of series I've seen (such The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings Trilogy, and also Harry Potter) the first book was more light hearted and the second one much more dark. Will Stanton is a wonderful charecter and it was great to see Merriman (Great-Uncle Merry) make a return. I reccomend this book to anyone who's read Over Sea Under Stone and wants to continue the series. I reccomend the series to fans of His Dark Materials, Chrestomanci, and The Lord of the Rings Trilogy.	2002-01-26
1679743:US	49200164	R2PE2GSFQK5I7U	0020427859	400011174	Over Sea, Under Stone	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining and thrilling!	When the Drew Children (Simon, Jane, and Barney) go to visit their Great-uncle Merry they're looking foreword to spending time at the beach, fishing, and exploring the house. But when they find a very old and strange manuscript in a hidden room in the attic they are shocked. The manuscript, once translated with the help of their uncle, sets them off on a strange and dangerous mystery. With the enemy at every turn the three children find themselves on a race to find a piece of treasure from King Arthur's time. And if they lose this race they may be in more trouble then they've ever imagined.<br />So begins, Over Sea, Under stone, the first book in Susan Cooper's \\"The Dark is Rising\\" series which tells about an everlasting battle between the light and the dark. I really enjoyed this book. Reading it was fun and interesting. It reminds me a lot of the Harry Potter Series but even more of Diane Wynne-Jones' Chrestomanci series. I'm defiantly going to continue reading this series. I already own the next book and I'm part way through it. If your a fan of such series as The Chrestomanci Chronicles or Narnia, you'll enjoy this mystery book with just a touch of fantasy.	2002-01-25
1687360:US	49200164	RRMUK6VMWGVR7	0312269234	990948943	Feeling Sorry for Celia: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Funny and Intriguing!	Elizabeth's best friend Celia has a habit of running away. Ever since Celia was a little kid she would run away from her home almost periodically so usually Elizabeth doesn't worry about it. But when she's away from home for many days, those turns into many weeks she starts to worry. But that isn't the only big thing going on in her life at the moment. She's 15, in the midst of her awkward teenage years. She and her mother speak pretty much only through letters and her father isn't her favorite person in the world. But everything changes when she's forced to take place in a pen pal project for English class. Her pen pals name is Christina and actually enjoys Elizabeth's quirky life. Suddenly a random person she barely knows, knows more about her than anyone else. And life gets even more complicated when Celia comes home.<br />Written in a series of letters, some real (like Elizabeth's letters to and from Christina and her mother), and some fake (humorous letters from \\"associations\\" like the Association of teenagers, and the Cold Hard truth Society) Feeling sorry for Celia is a funny and unique book that you'll never forget. I knew I was going to like it when I discovered that her agent was Garth Nix, one of my favorite fantasy writers. The main character, Elizabeth, through her awkwardness and shyness is a great character that everyone will enjoy reading about. I recommend this book to readers of Sloppy firsts, or Angus Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging.	2002-01-20
1687432:US	49200164	R21Y068ZI6WSZO	0446608955	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A moving and entertaining novel	Landon Carter's life changes forever when he's only 17. Though he's 57 now he can remember those days as if it were only yesterday. Because when he was 17 he fell in love with the girl he never thought he would even like. When he signs up for the drama class in school, he sees it only as a way to have an easy class and a good nap. Jamie, the girl that everyone makes fun of for her sweet attitude and numerous charity works, is also in this class. When Landon is in need for a date to the school dance, he finds that Jamie is the only one he can ask. Jamie accepts but she makes him promise one thing, not to fall in love with her. Landon laughs it off and accepts this promise but he soon finds himself breaking it. Over the next few months, as Jamie brings out the best in him and helps him grow up. For the first time in his life he's in love and wants nothing more than to be with her. But when something threatens that love, will they be able to stay together?<br />Though I'm not usually into the romance genre I found this book to be an exception. This book was well written with an almost simplistic style that will make you want to read it in one sitting. It was hard to put down. I only wish it were longer. Jamie and Landon are wonderful characters that will make you laugh and cry. My only complaint is parts of it were... a bit unrealistic. I won't say which to spoil the ending. Though the ending is sad this will be a book that you'll love. I recommend this to people who are fans of a sad but moving book.	2002-01-20
1688615:US	49200164	R3C2KV9TTL7T47	0060006056	935512704	Circle of Three #13: And It Harm None	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The girls face a new challenge	As the circle of three's year and a day draws closer to the end the girls have a lot of new challenges to face. Cooper's frightened that her mother is in danger of becoming an alchoholic. How can she help her? Annie, who has spent the majority of her life with a very small family, now has an older sister. How will tell her aunt about Juliet? She knows her aunt has a lot on her shoulders from her upcomming marriage to Grayson Dunning, and is also curious about where the two families will live after the marriage. Kate's life seems calm and crisis free until she gets assigned a school project with her worst enemy. But these problems are nothing compared to what happens when someone breaks into the magic shop where they take their wicca classes. As they dig deeper into this mystery they find a problem more complex then they've ever imagined. What's the right thing to do?<br />This book was very suspenseful and exciting. It's kinda sad. I'm realzing now that this great series is only two books away from coming to a close for ever. This book was just as great as the last and I can't wait till the next one, THe Challenge Box. I love how some of the minor charecters (Becka, Sasha, and Kate's old friends) are getting more screen time. I reccomend this book to any fan of the series. You'll enjoy it! Have fun!	2002-01-18
1690638:US	49200164	RKX0MODQTYMKD	0803726058	835627443	Black Mirror	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great work by Nancy Werlin!	In some cultures it's customary for people to drape their mirrors in black cloth as a symbol of mourning. But Frances does this for other reasons. She hates mirrors and how she looks, and she never wants to look in one ever again. But more importantly she doesn't only want to mourn her brothers death, she wants to be reminded of is and find out why he really killed himself. So as she tries to find the reasons why she starts by looking into Unity, a voulenteer group in which her brother was an active part of. But she soon discovers things aren't right. The group isn't everything she says it is. But when she tries to investigate she finds herself involved in a dangerous world of drugs, lying, betrayel, and the brutal reality of her brothers death.<br />I really enjoyed this book. Though it wasn't as good as the last Nancy Werlin book I read, (The Killers cousin which a fully reccomend) Black Mirror is a unique and suspenseful novel that will keep you on the edge of your seat. I reccomend this to any fans of teen suspsence novels or works by Nancy Werlin. I hope you enjoy it!	2002-01-17
1690894:US	49200164	R12TAISFRY83IL	0803726058	835627443	Black Mirror	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great work by Nancy Werlin!	In some cultures it's customary for people to drape their mirrors in black cloth as a symbol of mourning. But Frances does this for other reasons. She hates mirrors and how she looks, and she never wants to look in one ever again. But more importantly she doesn't only want to mourn her brothers death, she wants to be reminded of is and find out why he really killed himself. So as she tries to find the reasons why she starts by looking into Unity, a voulenteer group in which her brother was an active part of. But she soon discovers things aren't right. The group isn't everything she says it is. But when she tries to investigate she finds herself involved in a dangerous world of drugs, lying, betrayel, and the brutal reality of her brothers death.<br />I really enjoyed this book. Though it wasn't as good as the last Nancy Werlin book I read, (The Killers cousin which a fully reccomend) Black Mirror is a unique and suspenseful novel that will keep you on the edge of your seat. I reccomend this to any fans of teen suspsence novels or works by Nancy Werlin. I hope you enjoy it!	2002-01-17
1697486:US	49200164	RRPZK5FDD881Z	0385327439	704689890	Love and Other Four-Letter Words	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing!	Sammie's life has been turned upside down. When her father and mother seperates she's uprotted from the town of Ithaca that she's always known and is sent to live with her mother who she dosen't get along with in a small appartment in NY. She hates leaving her best friend, even though her so-called friend is a bit selfish and treats her more just as  &quot;someone who will listen&quot; than an actual friend. Once she gets to the city everything changes. Her appartment is tiny and somewhere in the building is a Johnny Deep look a like that she constantly drools over. Her mother's ex-college buddy is inviting her over for dinner at her house and trying to open up. She meets an interesting person on her dog walk that will make a mark on her life. By the time this book has ended she has gained new look on life and has grown in so many ways.<br />I remember when I first saw this book reccomended to me on amazon.com. I took one look at the title and sort of rolled my eyes at it and didn't give it a second thought. I expected this book to be some goofy teen romance in which an insecure teen moves to the city meets a guy who makes everything magically better and all her problems are gone. The book ends in a school dance in which the main charecter wheres a red dress and everyone loves her. Prepare for the upcoming movie staring Freddie Jr. and Kristen Dunst. But that wasn't what I go. Love and other Four letter words in a touching story about a girl with blazing insecurities who just wants her life to be simpler. The love they talk about in the title is not always the love that we think about when we hear that words. It's more about the love between a mother and a daughter, two best friends, and how people grow apart and together. I found I could relate to the main charecter more than any other book I've ever read. Sammie is ME (except minus the big brests). I reccomend this book to fans of novels like Sloppy Firsts and Hard Love.	2002-01-11
1699162:US	49200164	R18RT9ZK3OTU5F	074340078X	893754726	Silver Eyes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Thrilling and Fast paced!	Violet eyed Angel lives in a futuristic world where she works for a security company called the SilverDollar Company. She is 18, the youngest employee, very smart, and just as athletic. But when she meets Michael on her first mission everything she thinks she knows about life is altered. Michael has violet eyes just like her, he claims to know her, and he somehow knows things about her that she cannot remember. Interested in learning about her past, she helps him out a little. But soon after she does this both she and Michael are sent to protect the President of SilverDollar's son. But when Angel gets involved she finds herself in the middle of a strange and dangerous mystery. Will she find out about her past? And what about these strange Silver eyed people? Where do their loyalties lie?<br />If you're a fan of Violet eyes I recommend this book. Though the beginning is a bit confusing, considering it begins in a totally different place then when Violet eyes left off, it soon sets off into a great fast paced plot that will keep you on the end of your seat. Though I'm not a huge fan of Science Fiction I found this book to be thrilling. I highly recommend it to fans of teen fantasy. Enjoy!	2002-01-10
1699978:US	49200164	R3BGRXCV15BTBZ	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Well written!	Frodo lives a normal life for a hobbit in the Shire with his guardian, Bilbo Baggins, But his life is changed when he learns from the Wizard that Bilbo's treasured ring (last seen in The Hobbit) which can make the wearer invisible is a tool of evil. Soon he is setting out on a long journey with his servant Sam, and two other hobbits to destroy the ring but will he survive? With evil black riders on horseback, natural disaster, and orcs around every corner Frodo may have more trouble than he bargained for. And even if he survives all this peril will he be able to resist the alluring power of the ring?<br />I've known about this series for quite a while but haven't got to picking it up until I saw it on a list of books entitles &quot;Even better than Harry Potter.&quot; Being obsessed with Harry Potter, I decided that anything even close to it's greatness is a book worth reading. And I was not wrong. THe Fellowship of the rings is a unique novel unlike any I've ever read before. With a colorful cast of characters (my favorite being Aragorn), The Fellowship of the rings is quite an entertaining novel. I had very high expectations when I first picked it up, and though I was a bit disappointed I still found it to be quite a wonderful read. I am defiantly reading the next two books in the trilogy. I recommend it to any fans of the fantasy genre.	2002-01-10
1703587:US	49200164	R245UC7K6QQS7I	0060930934	609366713	Wasted : A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Moving	Wasted, by Marya Hornbacher, is a memoir about a girl's life long struggle with anorexia and bulimia. The book starts out when Marya was young and insecure and how her insecurities grew into a constant want to be thin, which made her bulimic. The book goes on through her life as she grows up and enters a dangerous world of sex, drugs, alcohol and food. As she grows up she becomes hospitalized multiple times and institutionalized once. In fact she doesn't even realize that she has a problem and needs to stop until she reaches such a dangerously low weight that the doctors are shocked she survives.<br />The book is a must for any teenage girl who has to deal with the want for being thin and perfect. Marya's writing is honest and thoughtful and not filled with a scrap of self pity. She only tells the truth and she tells her story beautifully and with amazing strength. I hope that Marya one day decides to write a fiction book so I can see more of her work. She's a very talented writer. I recommend it to any teenage girl or older.	2002-01-07
1717315:US	49200164	R1N5EHVDNVQ90O	0679886370	411811908	Stargirl	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great book about daring to be different	Leo lives in a small town like any other, where being different is viewed as a bad thing. He goes to a school that's famous for not winning anything and has it's share of not so nice people, and those who copy them. But one day one girl comes to school that changes everything. Her name is Stargirl and she's far from normal. She sings Happy Birthday to anyone who happens to have a birthday at lunch, she cheers for the other team at basketball games, she dresses in odd outfits and changes the words to the pledge of alligence. Soon everyone in school loves her. She becomes one of the more popular girl in school. But soon her strange ways get her in trouble and the school turns on her. Leo is one of the few who remain on her side. He knows the only way to put her back in favor with the people in school is to do the one thing that could destory her. Make her normal.<br />I really enjoyed this book. It spoke out bravely for being different and making a difference no matter wbat. SInce I've read this book I've had the habit of throwing down change on the side of the street and checking the newpaper for &quot;fillers&quot; like Stargirl. If you love stories about being different read this book. I reccomend it highly!	2001-12-28
1717792:US	49200164	R2VCGBF79GM625	0439240719	575071036	Building A Mystery (Twitches #2)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Eh...	Cam and Alex are just adjusting to being sisters, and to being witches. Their powers are new but powerful and will take a while to be controlled. And when they're faced with a new problem they realize that their brush with death won't be their last. When Ilena comes to town (undercover) she warns the two witches about a powerful messenger witch coming and looking for them. Cam and Alex need to find out who this is but their esially distracted. Their 15th birthday party is coming up, a new girl at school as clung to Alex in a strangely embarressing way, a new teacher proves to be less than nice, and Alex just can't adjust to her new life. SHe misses her mother and cannot fit in with Cam's friends. But when a new boy comes to school something about him draws her attention towards him. But little dose she know this new kid has a secret that no one would ever guess.<br />This book had good points and bad points. THe story line was interesting and thrilling but the authors torchured it but filling up the dialog with unreal teen speak that no self respecting 14 (and 15) year old would dare use. The girls powers are interesting but they use it far too many times in front of mortals without them noticing. Cam and Alex are interesting charecters but you find yourself wishing that Ilena would get hit by a bus. Her selfishness from the last book has grown in ridiculous porportions. ANd the ending, while orginal and exciting, is toatally predictable. THis book could have been great but it's not. It's a quick read that fans of the series should read but nothing more. I will read the next book in the series in hope that it's better (and it looks much more interesting) but I don't reccomend this book to anyone but fans of the series.	2001-12-28
1718263:US	49200164	R9ZC78HIIEJY	0064472833	971555919	Revelations (Fingerprints, Book 6)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best book in the series to date	Rae is happy. Now that Steve Mercer is dead she can finally get back to a normal peaceful life. She can start dating Marcus, her old boyfriend, again and live a happy life. Most importantly she dosen't have to talk to Anthony, who crushed her heart, and Yana, who went behind her back and hurt her, ever again. But that all changes when Yana comes up to her, on the verge of a nervous breakdown. Yana's father isn't happy and he wants to have her put in a mental hospital for good. Rae knows what it feels like in these hospitals so she agrees to help Yana out. But that's before she starts hearing things, strange things, voices in her head telling her that she's crazy and should be locked up. ANd soon signs start appearing everywhere that she can't ignore. And if she's not careful she may put her life in danger one more time.<br />I really enjoyed this book. It's the best in the series to date. Rae's almost mental breakdowns are interesting to watch (read) and the .... end was quite a surprise to me. I can't wait till the next book, Payback, comes out. I reccomend this book to any fan of the series. Enjoy!	2001-12-28
1721068:US	49200164	RQIE1WG9JNQHB	0060006048	125700552	Circle of Three #12: Written in the Stars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Back on track	With the start of a new year, Cooper, Annie, and Kate are faced with both new and old challenges. To start off the new year, their wicca class teaches them about astrology, the study of the stars. Copper and Kate think it's cool but Annie is disturbed by it. IS everything just written in the stars? Dose she have any control over her life? But through this study Annie discovers something new and shocking. There may just be another piece of her parents left in the world. Cooper faces a new challenge when she finds out something new about her friend Jane. When she makes a horrible mistake, can Jane ever forgive her? And how will Kate deal when she's given another chance with Tyler. Has she forgiven him yet to love him again? Is she even ready.<br />After the last few books the Circle of Three series has remained, though entertaining, a little less special. But this one has brought the books up to the same level of entertainment that was seen in Blue Moon and the Five Paths (my two favorites). I'm glad to see Isobel Bird is back on track. I can't wait until the next book, And it Harm none, comes out. It looks really good. Enjoy!	2001-12-25
1721316:US	49200164	R28QAR8ONF09C4	0743412524	367525825	Love (Fearless #18)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A thrilling new book in the Fearless Saga	Gaia's life is a living hell. She has no idea about Sam, her close boyfriend's, death and dosen't know who to trust. She dosen't know who Loki is. Her uncle claims it's her father but her father claims it's her uncle. She finds she can no longer tell the difference between them. All she knows is whoever gets close to her gets hurt, badly, so she needs to run away. But she can't do it without saying goodbye to Ed first but when she dose, something surprising happens. Leaving Ed may be harder than she thought. And when she finds out what Loki's plan really is she freaks. She knows that she can never put her life back together again.<br />I was impressed with this book. The last few editions have been a bit dissapointing but this one was very good. The ending is quite a cliffhanger, I can't wait till the next one, Twins, comes out. I reccomend this book to fans of the Fearless series. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.	2001-12-25
1729155:US	49200164	R3IG494P5EDC2	0802137008	910496991	Pure	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Impressive	The narrator of this book is a 14-year-old girl living in England who, like most 14-year-olds thinks she knows everything but realyl knows nothing. She wants nothing more than to make everyone happy. SHe strives to fit into the popular group in the school by letting boys feel her up and going out with a guy she doesn't really like. She dosen't really fit in that well but they let her hang around with them, and that's enough for her. She'd do anything to stay with this crowed, including diss her former best friend. Her parents do not get along and bicker all the time, usually in front of the narrator and her brother. The narrator's life gets more complicated when she &quot;falls in love&quot; with a 27-year-old named Olvier who makes her life even harder. How wil she survive.<br />I was a bit skeptical in reading this book, considering it didn't get the greatest reviews online but when I read it I was surprised. Sure the author needs to work on her flow a bit (at sometimes the story can be choppy) and the ending was weak but Pure is a big accomplishment for any 16-year-old writer. The story is honest and emotion filled. The narrator goes through many problems that all teenagers (though not nessicarily all 14 year olds) go through. I hope Miss Ray continues to write more fiction. It will be interesting to see her develope as a writer. I reccomend it to people who have been fans of such books as Brave New Girl, The Perks of being a Wallflower, and Sloppy Firsts.	2001-12-17
1739496:US	49200164	RQVY4GH8IME4B	0671775820	973758552	Head Games	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Merry Christmas Jenna Blake	When Jenna Blake goes back to her hometown for the Christmas season she's hoping on having fun with her mother. She's hoping on recconecting with her old High School friends who she hasn't spoken with for a while. She's certainly not counting on another mystery but unfortunatly that's what she ends up getting. When a former classmate kills his entire family in their sleep Jenna is both shocked and horrified. When a second classmate does the same, Jenna becomes suspecious. Is it coincidence that two seemingly normal kids kill their entire family and just forget about it? Jenna doubts it. She wants to help solve this mystery but she's far from Somerset University where the police know her by face and name and sort of trust her. And she's also far from Dr. Silkowski whom has also found himself entrapped in another puzzling mystery and in his own personal problems. Jenna's on her own. And she only has so much time to find out who's playing dangerous head games with her and her friends.<br />For some odd reason I haven't picked up a Jenna Blake book for quite a while but when I saw this in the store i just had to read it. Once again I was not dissapointed. Golden is a talented author or suspense and once again delievers a new novel with a powerful mystery filled with great charecters. If you're a fan of the series I reccomend this novel. Have fun!	2001-12-09
1755960:US	49200164	R2RH2YP1VI3Z4	014230056X	473697815	The Calling (Sweep, No. 7)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Just as good as the last!	In Cate Tiernan's new book The Calling, Morgan has been haunted with terrifying dreams of animals and magick. When she tells hunter this he senses they might be important so he tells the council of it and they agree. Soon Morgan, Hunter, Sky, Raven, Robbie, and Bree are off on a road trip to NYC (as the city photos on the cover suggests). Morgan is interested in learning what her dreams mean and getting closer to Hunter but neither of those options seem open. Hunter is out looking around all day and no one knows what's really going on. Then without warning, Morgan is thrown head first into magickal mayhem that she never suspected. By the end of the book she has made two shocking revealations that will change her forever.<br />This book was just as good as the last. Once again Cate Tiernan has written a thrilling book about magick, love, and finding oneself. I highly reccomend this book to anyone who has been following the series, in fact I find it nessicary. This is a very important edition in Morgans life and an equally important edition to the series. I can't wait till the next book!	2001-11-27
1756438:US	49200164	R1JT036415CVZM	0671788477	713783703	Darkest Hour (The Mediator)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A very important book in the series	(...)Suze, a 16-year-old Mediator, is looking foreward to a summer of fun in the sun. Unfortunatly for her both her step father and a couple of ghosts have other plans for her. Her stepfather has made her sign up for a summer job, babysitting kids at a rich country club. Suze hates it, considering the kid she usually sits has something against ever leaving the house or moving away from the TV screen. She's shocked when she finds out the same kid she's babysitting is a mediator, an a very scared one at that. Her other problem arises when the ghost of her not so alive roomate Jesse (who she is secretly obsessed over) ex-fiance, Maria, wakes her up with a knife with threats. Suze finds her self thrown into a strange mystery that took place over 150 years ago. She soon realizes that in solving this mystery she may lose someone she cares about very much, Jesse.<br />I was shocked with this book. Once again Jenny Carroll manages to mingle humor with horror and mystery to create a great book that's even better than the last! Darkest Hour is a very important book in the series that I reccomend to any fans of the series. It's the best so far. I can't wait till Jenny writes another tale of Suze. The ending is quite a cliffhanger. Have fun!	2001-11-27
1766082:US	49200164	R1EWKABYGAB1SE	0689841140	643028195	What My Mother Doesn't Know	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Beautiful and honest poetry	Now here is a book written for a teenage poet. What my mother dosen't Know tells the story of Sophie a 14 (almost 15) year old girl who's doing what any teenager dose in verse (poetry). She's dealing with her first (and second adn third) love, worrying about her appearence, fighting with her mother, dealing with her parents argueing, having fun with her friends, and worrying about what others wil think about her crush on the less than lovely boy at her school. Her poetry is honest and beautiful. I reccomend this to anyone who writes poetry, is a teenager, or was once a teenager and wants to flashback on the &quot;good&quot; times. It's a great book! I read this thing all in one night! It's that good! This is my first book I've read that's written entirely in poetry but not my last.	2001-11-18
1766746:US	49200164	R30C4N9KGH6Z6T	0064473686	975287520	Circle of Three #11: The House of Winter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A new challenge faces the circle of three	When Cooper, Annie, Kate and Sasha go to an old haunted hotel to celebrate the Yule with many other witches they find themselves tangled up in more than one challenge. During this ritual they all choose to enter different study groups where they will face their fears or use their greatest strengths. Cooper joins the air group where uses her musical talents. Kate joins the water group where she will look at her secrets and fears and ANnie joins the earth group where she will face ehr fear of death once more. But during their workshop sessions they get tangled up into a ghost mystery involving the two twin girls who own the hotel.<br />I thought this book was very interesting though I wish they didn't emphasize the ghost story as much and get more into the wiccan rituals. I've always wanted to know what wiccans do around Christmas time and I was surprised. It wasn't as jolly as Christmas or Haunaka. If you're a fan of the series I reccomend this. It's still a very good book. Lucy and Nora (the twins) are great new charecters. Enjoy!	2001-11-18
1766837:US	49200164	R191YJK4L0D5S6	0064472825	43222945	Betrayed (Fingerprints #5)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Rae's personal life gets more complicated	Finally Rae kissed Anthony. Finally they realize that they like eachother. THings should be going great right? Wrong. In this book Rae can't seem to get close to Anthony thanks to her ex-boyfriend Marcus. To make things more difficult, her best friend Yana, won't even speak to her anymore. For some strange reason she thinks Rae told Yana's father about the whole \\"ballet story\\" and will do anythign to get back at her. Rae's still trying to find out the thruth about her mother and why she died and the truth about Amanda Reese. And there's only one person who possibly knows the answer. But trying to talk to him is risking her life.<br />I thought that this was a great book in the series. It's starting to remind me of the early books in the fearless series. If you're a fan of the series I reccomend reading this book. THough it isn't as good as the last one it's still an amazing edition. I hope you enjoy it!	2001-11-18
1775870:US	49200164	R36IWGNAHGZ7FT	0064473678	604572402	Circle of Three #10: Making the Saint	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great new book in the series!	Life is getting tough for the Circle of Three as Thanksgiving approaches. Kate is happy that she's once again aloud to go to wicca classes but she's upset that her parents won't let her see Tyler. Cooper's friendship with Jane is strengthed when they enter a battle of the bands concert but she leaves the concert with questions on her mind about TJ and love. Her life gets even more complicated when her parents tell her something shocking. Annie feels guilty beyond words for kissing Tyler but she still finds herself drawn to him. Should she tell Kate about what she's done? These questions are all answered as the three witches in training start a special study on other relgions for their wiccan study group. What will happen?<br />I found that this book was entertaining enough but it dosen't have the page turning spice that the series used to had. Ever since The Five Paths, I've noticed the series has been wonderful as always but not as good as it used to be. The next one looks interesting and I hope it is. Another thing I found I love about this book is it's cover. The book covers keep on getting more beautiful and beautiful and I find this one to be the best. If you're a fan of the series I reccomend reading this book.	2001-11-11
1775899:US	49200164	R29SAIEUGAMVGK	0671788124	487343424	Reunion (The Mediator, No. 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Better than the last!	In this book Suze is happy to have her friend from NYC visit her in California. She plans a fun filled visit for her friend filled with sun, fun, and watching cute lifeguards. So of course, everything goes wrong. Suze starts to see the ghosts of four recently deceased teens who died in a horrible car accident. Which wouldn't be such a big deal but these four ghostly teens have decided to terrorize a gawky, and awkward teen that attends Suze's highschool. And to top that off this same gawky teen forms a strange infatuation with Suze. Suze soon realizes that the only way to stop these attacks is to solve the mystery behind their deaths. But as she starts to get involved she soon realizes that she's way over her head. and this case may be deadly.<br />I was very happy with this book. Once again Jenny Carroll delivers a great work of fiction. Her mediator stories have always been page turners for me and this one is not an exception. I can't wait till I get my hands on Darkest Hour. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did! I reccomend it to any fans of the series or of the 1-800 WHERE ARE YOU Seires.	2001-11-11
1786656:US	49200164	R2XY2RSDJSJ3NJ	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An entertaining novel!	Years ago, Andy McGee and his soon to be wife Vicky took place in a strange expirament with a drug called lot six, an expirence which terrified them and left them with strange new gifts. Years later they are married and have a little 7-year-old girl named Charlie McGee. And Charlie has gifts that are more powerful than she can imagine. She can light fires with her mind, big fires. And the people who ran the expiraments want nothing more than to get Charlie. And they'd do anything to get to her. And what will happen if they do?<br />I really enjoyed this book. The plot was really exciting and the charecters very interesting. This is my second Steven King Novel (my first being Carrie) and not my last. If you enjoy suspenseful stories of magical powers I reccomend this to you. Enjoy!	2001-11-02
1786912:US	49200164	R2WHPD52H3SH87	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An entertaining novel!	Years ago, Andy McGee and his soon to be wife Vicky took place in a strange expirament with a drug called lot six, an expirence which terrified them and left them with strange new gifts. Years later they are married and have a little 7-year-old girl named Charlie McGee. And Charlie has gifts that are more powerful than she can imagine. She can light fires with her mind, big fires. And the people who ran the expiraments want nothing more than to get Charlie. And they'd do anything to get to her. And what will happen if they do?<br />I really enjoyed this book. The plot was really exciting and the charecters very interesting. This is my second Steven King Novel (my first being Carrie) and not my last. If you enjoy suspenseful stories of magical powers I reccomend this to you. Enjoy!	2001-11-02
1793298:US	49200164	R2SXTSTJ9JC4HN	0786807075	357883966	The Lost One (Daughters of the Moon 6)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A new face joins the series	Tianna Moore wakes up one day in a small appartment, not knowing who she is or where she is. She has no memories at all. Through careful investigations she finds out something about herself but it's not enough. She knows that people are after her, bad people, but she dosen't know why. And she knows that she has a special gift but she dosen't know what it is. Time is running out for Tianna. Little dose she know the only people who can help her are Serena, Vanessa, and Jimena who are still depressed after the recent &quot;dissapearence&quot; of their good friend and fellow goddess. Will Tianna survive?<br />I found this book to be a very entertaining and equally exciting book in the series. Tianna is a great new charecter that I'm growing very fond of. If you're a friend of the series and of teen books in general, read this book!  It's very very good! I can't wait to read the next book in the series which once again stars Vanessa. Enjoy!	2001-10-28
1801719:US	49200164	R3HK7DZ6MWSDP	0786807067	126315395	The Sacrifice (The Daughters of the Moon, No. 5)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good or Evil?	Stanton has always been a faithful follower of the Atrox ever since the day he was forced into a change, but when he falls in love with Serena everything changes. He wants nothing more than to be with her but when he is, part of him wants to make her a follower, a servent of the Atrox. He knows that to be safe he can no longer see her and when a couple of old &quot;friends&quot; return to Stanton he realizes that their is a plot against the Daughters of the Moon that he must stop to save Serena. But will it work? What's more powerful? Stanton's love for Serena or his evil nature?<br />I found this book to be an impressive edition to the series. Stanton has always been a mysterious charecter that I've been interested in and it's good to see his story for once. This was a very good book though not as good as the last one, and it has a shocker ending that will really surprise you! If you're a fan of this series I reccomend reading this book. It's worth it!	2001-10-21
1801839:US	49200164	R20RF9UOPT0SOK	0609807900	814027021	Sloppy Firsts (Jessica Darling, Book 1)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A great new Diary book!	Jessica Darling hates her life. Her best friend Hope has just moved away from her town leaving her all alone. Her only freinds now are her Diary and the fake \\"popular crew\\" who she cannot stand. Though she writes to her friend as much as she can she still finds it hard to go along with daily life. She has to deal with being the smart one, and her fathers pressure to be the star track runner. Her best friend Scotty has a crush on her and her crush, Paul, dosen't even know she exists. And to top it off she has a strange boy named Marcus following her around and it's been months since she had her period and she dosen't know why. <br />After reading such books as Angus Thongs and Full Frontal Snogging and the Two Princess Diaries I have taken a liking to Diary style books. This one, I was very impressed with. Jessica Darling's story is not only entertaining but it's less PG style than other diary books making it even better for older teens like me. I found Jessica to be a great charecter and esay to relate to. Ms. McCafferty is working on another book about Jessica and I can't wait for it to come out. If you enjoy Diary books I really reccomend this!	2001-10-21
1814419:US	49200164	RXBVSMPQ261X	0142300462	885697122	Spellbound (Sweep, No. 6)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another Impressive edition	Morgan life has changed greatly since Cal and Selene fled from her home town. In this book more change happens than she coud ever prepare herself for. Her coven goes under a dramatic shift when it joins forces with another. As her love for Cal fades she finds love in another witch, hunter. And she is presented with a chance to make her much more powerful and knowlegeable so she will have the strength to fight back if hurt. Will Morgan survie all the change? Will she beable to keep her secret from her parents? Will she find out the truth about her mother. All these questions are answered in this impressive novel.<br />I was very pleased with this edition to the series. It's just as good as the last. I can't wait till Cate Tieran releases another book in this thrilling series. I'm begining to love some of the charecters I once hated and hate some of the charecters I once loved. If you're a fan of the series, read this book. You won't be dissapointed.	2001-10-10
1814569:US	49200164	R2MJ0H1R3LVEVO	0142300462	885697122	Spellbound (Sweep, No. 6)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Impressive edition	Morgan life has changed greatly since Cal and Selene fled from her home town. In this book more change happens than she coud ever prepare herself for. Her coven goes under a dramatic shift when it joins forces with another. As her love for Cal fades she finds love in another witch, hunter. And she is presented with a chance to make her much more powerful and knowlegeable so she will have the strength to fight back if hurt. Will Morgan survie all the change? Will she beable to keep her secret from her parents? Will she find out the truth about her mother. All these questions are answered in this impressive novel.<br />I was very pleased with this edition to the series. It's just as good as the last. I can't wait till Cate Tieran releases another book in this thrilling series. I'm begining to love some of the charecters I once hated and hate some of the charecters I once loved. If you're a fan of the series, read this book. You won't be dissapointed.	2001-10-10
1818757:US	49200164	RBO1T1XTKSXKK	0590104675	550303916	Zombie Saturday Night (CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE VAMPIRE)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Sequel to the turning	Lily's life hasn't been the same since she was changed into a vampire. Now in order to become human again she must defeat the evil Sang. On top of that tn order to save the town she must protect the people from Sang's evil creations. And surprisingly enough the change from human to vampire has had an affect on Lily's social life. She's no longer the outcast she once was and wants to celevrate that by having a party. But of course Sang has other things in mind... I found this comic to be just as good as the last. THe plot line is exciting and it makes you wonder &quot;What's going to happen next.&quot; I hope that one day Mr. West and Mr. Ellis decide to pick up the pen again and create another comic for the series. I enjoyed it.	2001-10-04
1819172:US	49200164	R3N6OZAWEDD7V2	0684856093	927677900	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens: The Ultimate Teenage Success Guide	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Very Helpful... for some	When I first picked this book up was last years. I was an unorganized sophomore who didn't care enough about her grades or much else. I read the first chapter and put it down because I got bored. About a month ago I picked it up again, now caring just a bit more about life and reality, and found it very helpful. Sean Covey goes on talking about how to improve yourself and your relationships with others using the 7 habits that brought his father to fame. Only this time, it's written in teen-speak. Each of the habits focus on a different aspect. Each one is needed to be mastered before you move up to the next.<br />Many people complain about this book saying that it's &quot;stupid&quot; or &quot;useless&quot; and to tell the truth if I didn't let my boredom get the better of me back in sophomore year I might think the same way. In order to really get this book and use it as a helpful tool you must read it with an open mind (yes Sean dose over do it with the slang in some occasions) and you have to actually want things to be better. If your parents force it onto you, chances are it's not going to help as much. Though I have only been trying to live the habits for a couple weeks I have already seen slight changes in my life and my level of patience. I think that if this book was made for you, it will be a remarkable piece of work, but if it wasn't.... well you're better off trying another style. I hope you like it!	2001-10-04
1819567:US	49200164	R2QWC2UH0EZQY9	0590104667	600255859	The Turning (CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE VAMPIRE)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A nice surprise	Lily is just your normal average teenage girl living in a normal average town. She's not popular. She dosen't have many friends, and she's constantly picked on by the school bully. But that all changes when she wants to learn about the founder of the town, Aaron Lemachard II. The only problem is when she dose she finds herself drawn into a world of vampires, both good and evil. And if she dosen't look out Lily will get caught in the crossfire. Sound good? Well it is. Usually I can't stand comic books or graphic novels but this one took me by surprise. It was a great fast paced read with an interesting story. Even though it was very short (I read it when I was supposed to be working) it was very enjoyable. And if you liked it as much as I did look out for Zombie Night Fever, the next edition to the series. Enjoy!	2001-10-04
1832479:US	49200164	R9VRJ4NKY017Z	0967511127	322703219	The Sands of Time: A Hermux Tantamoq Adventure	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Even better than the last!	In The Sands of Time, the second Hermux Tantamoq Mystery, Hermux's life is much different since he helped the beautiful Linka and solved the mystery of the evil doctor Mennus. He's still a watchmaker and lives in the same town but there's somethign different about him. One day he recieves an invitation to an art show opening in a museam. ALl the art has been painted by his close personal friend, Mirrim. But when the town of Pinchester finds out what the art is really about they turn on the exibit. Of course when you live in a town full of mice they wouldn't appreaciate a gallery of cats. Suddenly, with the help of a mysterious old chipmunk, and the beautiful and engaged Linka, Hermux is thrown head first into yet another mystery that ponders the question &quot;were cats ever real... or are they just fables of Children stories&quot; THis mystery turns to be even more dangerous than the last.<br />When I first read Time stops for no mouse I was very impressed but I just feel in love with this book. The charecters we already know and love, and a few new ones, are developed so you don't just think of them as animals but as real people. The story, though it lacks the shocker ending that TIme Stops For No Mouse had, is even more thrilling as the last as Hermux, Linka, and Birch Tentintrotter search for the existance of cats. Tucka  once again makes a memorabler impression and the books villian is great. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.	2001-09-22
1833450:US	49200164	RXMBIKAPTFTI1	0385327935	444877361	Shattered Mirror (Den of Shadows)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great new book by a great young author!	Sarah Vida may look normal but she's not. Though she plays the part of a normal 17-year-old by day at night she's a witch, and not just any witch, a Vida witch, a powerful vampire hunter. When she enters a new school she immeaditally catches the attention of two vampires, both who are far too weak to realize who she even is. But as she grows to know them better (especially the good looking Christopher) she realizes that everything in the world is not as black and white as she once saw it. She realizes that some vampires can be possibly... good? But her opnions all change when she learns that Christopher's twin brother is Nickolas, a fabled vampire that the Vida line has been hunting for ages, and who Sarah has been dying to get her hands on. But where do her loyalties lie, with Christopher or with the rules and regulations that the Vida line has bestowed on her?<BR>I found this book to be very entertaining. Sarah is a great charecter and so are all the other new charecters in the book. It's nice to see some returning charecters (especially Caryn Smoke) too. Though the ending is weak, it's worth buying it for the first 2/3rds of the book. I reccomend it to any Atwater-Rhodes fans. Oh and while reading this book I found myself certain that Amelia was once a Night World fan. I found yet again another compairison. The SingleEarth group sounds so much like Circle Daybreak. But other than that the book is great. Enjoy!	2001-09-21
1834666:US	49200164	RG0CIBCCX63CK	0399237208	277971290	Taggerung (Redwall)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An amazing new edition to the Spectacular Redwall Series	For many seasons rumors have gone around that one day a powerful warrior beast called the Tagggerung will join the Juska rat clan and be the most powerful of them all. THe rumors about this beast are almost unbelievable but Sawney Rath wants nothing more than to find him, so when he dose the whole clan is shocked to learn that the Taggerung is no vermin, but an otter! Little Tagg grows up amoung the vermin living a tragic life, never knowing who he really is. But one day he realizes that something is wrong with his life, very wrong.<br />Meanwhile at Redwall, the Abby has been without an Abbess and Warroir for more seasons than they can count. The only member of the Abby from the old times that hasn't died from old age is Lady Cregga Rose eyes, the badgermum. But soon a series of riddles shows up around the Abby. Riddles that can tell who the Abbess really is.<br />When I saw this book I was a bit surprised. It was longer than any Redwall book I've seen in a while, but apparently the longer books are the better they are. I haven't Read a Redwalll book this good since Marlfox. Tagg's story is very entertaining and their are countless refrences to a Classic Redwall book that fans of the series will recognize. The new charecters are well drawn (my favorite being little Nimbalo) and for once, Brian Jacques introduces a serious issue in the series, one that readers may relate too. I reccomend this book strongly to fans of the series. You won't be dissapointed!	2001-09-20
1840657:US	49200164	R3UL9GADBSIROM	0060281278	969831101	Echo	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A beautiful, orginal, creative tale	Echo tells the story of a girl and all the people around her in a beautiful writing that is purely Block's style. Echo is a girl who is convinced that she is not very pretty and the only things she has talent in is evil. But that proves to be wrong when series of tests in love, friendship, and death face her. Through this heart-filled painful period Echo learns from her mistakes and how to look towards the future. This book tells her story.<br />WHen I picked this up I was a little iffy about it. WHile I do enjoy Francasca Lia Block's wiritng style I either love her books, or could do with out them. THis book was not a dissapointment for me. The story is wonderful, symbolic, and poetic. I'd love to read more by Block. I reccomend this to anyone who dosen't mind strange but entertaining tales and who's a fan of Blocks writing.<br />On another note.... Peace and prayers to all the victims of the recent plane accident. My heart is with everyone affected.	2001-09-13
1844425:US	49200164	RW8FD7AFR676D	0743411404	122451940	Code Name Cassandra (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Jess thought her troubles were over...	Jess, dubbed Lighting girl for her ability to find missing children thanks to a bolt of lightning, though her troubles where over. Only a few people know about her special abilities: her best friend Ruth, her would-be boyfriend Roy, and her friend at 1-800-Where-R-You Rosemary. But when she signs up to be a councelor for a summer camp for gifted children she finds more problems than she can handle. Weather it's rotten kids or a not-so-loved fellow councelor, Jess just manages to take it in stride. But when a man comes for her, begging her help on finding his daughter, she find that she can't refuse. But soon she's getting into more trouble than she ever could imagine.<br />I found this to be a very exciting book, just as good as the last one. I hope Carroll continues to write books in this seires. I'd love to hear what happens to the charecters next. If your a fan of the series I reccomend this fully. THe only complaint I have is the title, the whole Code name Cassandra thing has only a small part in the book. I think Lighting Girl or something like that would be a better title. But other than that the book was great.	2001-09-09
1845433:US	49200164	R1KFFW7X28NIH6	006447299X	557103386	Circle of Three #9: Through the Veil	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Nice edition to the series	In the Circle of THree series the three girls have worked together to solve problems that they have faced. But in above the veil the problems they face, will have to be faced alone. Annie, drawing closer to her 16th birthday finds her thoughs to be lingering on her dead parents. She misses them so terribly and wants to talk to them so much just once more. Kate is trying to convince her parents to let her continue taking wicca classes but everything she dose never seems to help. Everythign around Cooper that once seemed stable is falling apart. Including her band. And her parents have a surprise for her that she will not enjoy.<br />Though this book wasn't as good as the last two (THe Five Paths and Blue Moon)it still was a nice read. It's good to hear about the girls problems but I really wish they'd get back to a more magickal theme. THe next one, Making the Saint, looks good. I hope you enjoy it!	2001-09-08
1852741:US	49200164	R11NTQGVAGYBCP	0743412516	675088070	Flee (Fearless #17)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Book!	Gaia's life has not gotten any better. SHe's stuck with a horrible choice, should she stay and live with the Mosses or move in with her uncle. This decision haunts her every thought and she can't come to a conclusion. But Gaia isn't the only one in a dilemma. Her ex-boyfriend Sam is torn between his own conscience and love for Gaia and his fear for Gaia and his life. Ed dosen't know whether to tell Gaia how he really feels or to turn back to Heather. ANd maybe the most complicated problem of all, Tom needs to find out what Loki is planning on doing to Gaia, and the truth is more haunting then he would ever imagine.<br />Though the beginning was a bit slow the later fast paced plot and shocker ending toatally makes up for it. I can't wait till book #18 comes out. And their are rumors going around that #18, Love, is the last in the series. Judgeing from the plot in this book it appears the rumors are ture. Hope you enjoy the book as much as I did!	2001-09-03
1857823:US	49200164	R2BOG14U6X3NRD	0064472981	577997105	Circle of Three #8: The Five Paths	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Even better than the last	The Circle of Three Series takes a new personal step in this novel. In The Five Paths, Cooper, Annie, Kate, and Sasha all return to school with new fears and apprehensions. Annie wonders how the school will accept the new her and worries if Brian will still like her without Freya. Kate knows she has to tell her parents about wicca and when she reconnects with some of her old friends she has more people that she's lying to about. And when Cooper where a wiccan pentacle to school she starts an uproar. Other people who don't know about the craft are scared by it. The school Principal even orders to take it out. Soon everyone in the school is somehow involved with this battle of free speach vrs. student's apprehensions. And by the end of this book a member may be forced to leave the circle. This book was much more personal then the rest of the series because instead of focusing on magic it forcuses more on the elements surrounding it. Kate, Cooper, and Annie learn that Junior year is much more complicated than they ever thought. I think this is one of the best books in the series thus far. I swear they just keep on getting better and better. THe next one, Above the Veil, looks amazing too. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did. I reccomend it to anyone who loves the series.	2001-08-29
1861030:US	49200164	R11MOCBVSXZEIY	0064472817	690999444	Secrets (Fingerprints, Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The excitement just keeps on comming	In this book, Secrets, Rae tries as hard as she can to find out about her mother and her past. Because she knows her ability is somehow connected to her mother and if she dosen't hurry her own body will beat her stalker in killing her. Usually she would run to Anthony and ask for help but he seems to have more important things to do ever since he started at her school. Rae is furious at him. It looks like it's just Rae and Yanna now to solve the ongoing mystery but Rae could be walking into a trap. THis book was great. Melinda Metz once again delivers suspense, romance, and mystery in book [amt]. I can't wait till the next book, Betrayel, comes out. I hope it's just as good as this one. I reccomend Secrets to anyone who's a fan of the series and wants to read more. Have fun!	2001-08-27
1861176:US	49200164	R20NZ6ETKZX3OK	0671534726	420209712	Heart Song	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An impressive edition to the series	In the last book Melody discovered things about herself that were earth shattering, and to top it off her mother was killed in a car accident. In this book Melody continues her search for the truth by looking for her real father. She figures that the only way she can find out the truth is to visit her REAL grandmother even though Olivia forbids it. ALso since she and Cary discovered that they weren't really cousins their affection for eachother is starting to grow. As Melody searches for the truth she may find out that some secrets are too painful to dig up. This book was another great book in the Logan series. It was just as good as Melody. Reading about Melody's quest for the truth is veyr entertaining and the next book, Unfinished Symphony, looks even better. I reccomend this book to any fan of VC Andrews and the Logan Family series.	2001-08-27
1876293:US	49200164	R2CZUTCCOJUTX4	0439221609	724371273	Crusader	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great book!	Roberta is a shy, plain girl who spends most of her free time working at a failing arcade in a failing mall. She dosen't have many friends and spends most of her time being silent. She looked upon as a normal girl but she's not. Seven years ago her mother was murdered in her family's old aracde and Roberta still hasn't recovered. When a spree of hate crimes against a store owner Samir breaks out, it's only the beginnging of a few very painful and equally powerful months for Roberta and everyone around her. As she works hard to save the arcade, find out who's committing the hate crimes, and find out her mother's murderer she picks up friends and learns things that she never thought she would learn.<br />When I first saw the gigantic book sitting on the shelf in a local bookstore I was shocked. I've seen very few books of this size in the young adult section that weren't fantaasy books. The back of it looked interesting so I bought it. I was not dissapointed. This was a powerful book. It told the story of racism, murder, a glimps into the dark world of polotics, and journalism, and the story of one girls courage and growing up. I reccomend this book to any young adult. It's really an amazing book. It definatly deserves 5 stars.	2001-08-15
1880522:US	49200164	R1W5733CBTHHO	0967511119	858115108	Time Stops for No Mouse: A Hermux Tantamoq Adventure	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A great new book!	Hermux Tantamoq is just your normal average everyday mouse. That is until the day Ms. Linka Perflinger comes rushing into his house, wanting her watch repaired ASAP. Hermux, sensing her worry and also being rather attracted to this young mouse, fixes it quickly and waits for her the next day to come it. Unfortunatly he never shows up. Days later a rather nasty looking rat comes up to his shop and askes for Ms. Perfllinger's watch. Hermux, being smart, refuses to give it to him and follows him to Ms. Perfllinger's house. WHen he get's there he's shocked to see what's going on. He finds himself drawn into a mystery so complex that he dosen't know who to trust or what to do. All he knows is he has to solve it quick before Ms. Perfllinger and possibly himself meets a dredful fate.<br />I found this book to be very entertaining and funny. I've been a fan of all animal worlds since I first read the Redwall series and this book dose not dissapoint me. The mystery was exciting and hard to solve. There's a surprise near the end that I Never saw coming. If you're a fan of mystery, suspence, and worlds where animals take the place of humans, read this book! I would reccomend it to anyone. This is a book for everyone. There's also another book in the series coming out in September that I can't wait for. Happy Reading!	2001-08-12
1884334:US	49200164	R13ZCFQ09ECFXG	0142300454	868663423	Awakening (Sweep, No. 5)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	They just keep on getting better!	In this book (Awakening) Morgan has been torn out of a world where she understands anything and is forced to another place where nothing makes sense. Still suffering from the betrayel of Cal and Selene, Morgan is very stressed and emotionaly vulnerable. And when she discovers, Pratical Magick, her sanctuary, is in danger of closing. Morgan is horrified. And now her coven, Cirrus, is also changeing. Without Cal to lead it a new leader has to step up. And Morgan is shocked when she learns who it is.<br />Wow! I thought after Dark Magick the books couldn't get any better but it obviously has. Awakening is filled with suspense and mystery. And Morgan's possible realtionship with Hunter remainds me so strongly of Night World's (the series that pretty much started the whole teen supernatural/romance genre) Mary-Lynette and Ash. I wonder how Cate Tiernan can top this one! I can't wait till spellbound comes out.	2001-08-09
1887118:US	49200164	R3122YWOSA5O6Q	0141311126	426430716	Dark Magick (Sweep, No. 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best book in the series thus far	Morgan is a wreck. After the last book (blood Witch) she thinks she did the worst thing possible, kill someone, another witch. She's terrified that someone will find out. And what whill happen if someone dose? Living a normal life knowing you're a blood witch was hard enough to her but now things are much worse. In this book Morgan's loyalties are pulled between two people. Her sole mate, and someone she barely knows. And at the end she's foreced to make a decision...<br />This was the best book in the series so far. I'd like to tell you ... about it but that would just spoil it. Morgan's story is getting more and more intense and the ending is a cliffhanger. I'm halfway through Awakening (book 5) right now. I recommend this to anyone who's a fan of the series and wants to know what happened to Morgan. This is defiantly the turning point in the series.	2001-08-07
1888110:US	49200164	R3TXXH598ZTII2	0743400526	349713140	She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom of Cassie Bernall	Books	5	6	13	N	N	An inspirational true story	She said yes, tells the story behind Cassie Bernall's answer to the question &quot;do you believe in God&quot; in the Columbine shooting. Misty, through honest and emotional language, tells the story of her daughter and her faith in God. She shows how Cassie once went down a path much like the shooters at Columbine and how her faith in God, and youth group friends, helped her become a better person. Misty uses stories from Cassie's friends and family to personalize the novel even further. I loved this book because it gave me a deeper understanding of what happened at Columbine. Cassie's story is a moving one. The question of her being a martyr still stands unanswered in my mind but I also know now that Cassie was a good person and a role model for all Christian teens. I just wish I could have met her before her death. I recommend this book not only to Christians, but to anyone that wants to know more about Columbine and why she said yes.	2001-08-07
1890270:US	49200164	RN0HRV5EMDUBZ	0312170238	531337250	The Shell Seekers (Tenth Anniversary)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Great Novel!	Penelope Keeling has just recovered from a heart attack and wants to spend the rest of her days as if it never happened. So when her doctor recommends to her daughter Nancy that Penelope get a house guest Nancy is filled with worries. She would like to get her mother a housekeeper but they could never afford it. So when she finds out from her sister Olivia that Penelope's father's (Lawrence Stern) paintings are worth a fortune Nancy wants to sell the immediately. And there brother Noel wants her to sell them too, but only so he can inherit the money. Olivia is dead set against it but soon the question of selling their mother's paintings, including Penelope's beloved &quot;The Shell Seekers,&quot; grows into a huge debate. A debate that effects every life around them. But in the end it will be Penelope's decision on selling the paintings. And as she reminisces about her past she knows that there can be only one answer.<br />Set partly in modern day England with flash backs to WW2, The Shell Seekers is an entertaining novel. Though it started out a bit slow it soon improved. Each chapter is named after a main character and each one is more interesting than the last. The story is touching and though a bit realistic at times, it's impossible not to enjoy. I loved this book and I'm sure to read another novel by Rosamunde Pilcher.	2001-08-05
1904713:US	49200164	R2KFOA8UEM9GT3	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An amazing story with one beautiful theme	Back in Freshman year there was a short story in my 9th grade English anthology by Amy Tan. It was called The Rules of the Game. It was a great story to break into high school with because I really enjoyed it. Now I've finally had the chance to read where the story came from and I was defiantly entertained. The Joy luck club is a beautiful book with one theme, the relationship between mothers and daughters and the joys and strengths that they share. The narration's jumps between four mothers and their daughters. Real life in China and modern day life in the US. Each story has it's own plot and resolution. Weather it's a young girl in China forced to marry in an arranged marriage when she was only 12. Or a young wanna be prodigy trying to live up to her mothers expectations. There are stories about going through a divorce, living with a concubine for a mother, dealing with your mothers death, or finding secret strengths inside of yourself you never know existed.<br />I was very impressed with this book. My favorite stories being Waverly's and June's. Every page is entertaining and it's actually even taught me a little about Chinese culture. Everyone who's a mother or a daughter should defiantly read this book. I'm defiantly going to pick up another book by Amy Tan. The Hundred Secret Senses is on my shelf waiting to be read.	2001-07-25
1922136:US	49200164	R3EZGQCSNU8EL8	0064472973	930837723	Circle of Three #7: Blue Moon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great edition to the series	In this book Annie is upset when Cooper and Kate blow off her idea for a blue moon ritual. She's beginning to notice that they're more focused on there own lives (and boyfriends) lately and she hates it. So she decides to do something for the full moon herself, a special ritual in which she invokes a goddess and spends time with her. At first the ritual dose nothing more than gives her confidence but soon Cooper and Kate are disturbed by the new Annie. She's turned into someone that they don't recognize anymore. But her friends have other serious problems on their minds. It's becomming obvious to Kate that's she's going to have to tell her mother about Wicca. And Copper's offended by TJ's responce to her wiccan poetry. Can they save Annie and solve there own problems at the same time?<br />I thought this book was one of the best in the series so far. Annie has always been my favroite charecter and in this book she really gets to shine. If you're a fan of the last 6 books you HAVE to read this one. I fully reccomend it. I can't wait until the five paths come out!	2001-07-12
1923644:US	49200164	R1SFZFWQ3BAHQL	0743412508	942368483	Naked (Fearless #16)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Could Gaia's life get any worse?	When we left off in the last book (Tears) Gaia's father had run off to do goverment work, she had broke up with Sam, and Ed was finally walking again. And now things in Gaia's life have changed from wonderful to horrible so fast that she dosen't know how to react. She spends her days, alone, sleepless, and depressed. But when she's given a new chance for a semi-peaceful life, how will she react? And how long will it last. Meanwhile Ed finds that life without his wheelchair is filled with it's own tragedies and Sam's life has gone from bad to worse.<br />I found this book to be very entertaining and an interesting addition to the series though it wasn't up to normal standards. I was happy to finally see how Ed got stuck in his wheelchair. I can't wait till the next one Flee. It looks even more intersting than the last. You can tell that the series is coming closer to an end. Enjoy!	2001-07-11
1924989:US	49200164	R2X4AQJUFJRBO2	0061002747	126736904	Murder on the Orient Express	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Entertaining Mystery	When Hercule Poirot boards the Orient Express he is surpised by the loud diversity of people on the train. From a Russian Princess to an English governess the train is filled with different classes, and nationalities. THe last thing he expects is a murder to take place. But when it dose, only he can find the killer. As Poirot shifts through the clues and interviews every member on the train he finds out the case is connected to a kidnapping mystery that took place in America year ago. Thus complicating things ever futhur. Can he solve the case? Or will the killer slip between his fingers.<br />When I saw the book assigned to me on my summer Junior year British Literature reading list I was happy to actually get to read a decent book. And when I read it I was swept up in the mystery of things, trying to find the real killer myself. Poirot is an interesting and clever charecter. This was my first Agatha Christie book but it won't be my last. Enjoy!	2001-07-10
1930731:US	49200164	R2MJEK2FHYW2RH	0141312289	929502561	Score (Have a Nice Life #4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Final book in a funny series	In this book Sally, Min, Olivia, and Zola are in the middle of a shakey make-up from a pervious fight when they meet Mr. Mojo, a man who claimes to be there fairy godmother. They're confused, how can they have two fairy godmothers? But soon Mr. Mojo shows them ways to achieve their futures that are much different than Clearence &quot;Lenny&quot; Tearence's ways. Mr. Mojo seems to think that they're on the right track. Should the four girls trust him? Or is he just luring them closer towards there dommed futures. This book was a funny ending to a great series. I'm kinda sad this is where it ended. Like the other four books it was filled with comedy, friendship, and Lenny's funny outfits. If you're a fan of the rest of the series, make sure to add this book to your collection. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did!	2001-07-06
1934059:US	49200164	R3W029CT6W0YSZ	0671028014	624460338	Star (Wildflowers)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Eh....	In the second story in the Wildflowers series we hear Star's story. Star likes to put up a tough bravado but the truth is her past is filled with pain. In Dr. Marlowe's therapy group she tells the story of parents that constantly fought, and a mother that never really wanted to have kids. As she continues to tell her story Misty, Jade, and Cat may realize that Star, under her wise cracks is just like them. I found this book to be a nice read, but not really up to par with the rest of the series. I liked reading this book. But compared to the other two in the series I've already read (Misty and Jade) it was just lacking something. Neverless I'm still reading the series (Cat is on my shelf right now and I'm going to buy the full-length novel Into the garden). I reccomend this book to fans of a series but try to get it from your library instead of spending your own money on it.	2001-07-04
1936178:US	49200164	R8CIFI1CK5RLF	0671534718	231880780	Melody (Logan)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What secrets lie in Melody's past?	Melody lives a quiet life in a coal mineing town. She's not rich but she has a good family life. But when tragedy strikes her life she's torn out of her town and forced to drvie with her mother and her mothers new boyfriend up to her aunt and uncles home. Here Melody meets sweet little deat May, her gruff uncle, her overprotective Cary, and her aunt who's one wish is to see her dead daughter again. Melody wants nothing more than to leave but when her mother anounces that she's going to be living with them she's shocked. SUddenly she's in her deceased cousins old room and realizing that everything she knows is a lie, but she dosen't know the truth. Can she find out the secrets from her past? Or is she better off back in her old home?<br />I really enjoyed this book. It told a thilling tale of a girl who discovers that everything she knows isn't real and her struggle to find the truth. If you're a fan on VC ANdrews I reccomend this book. Though I'm pretty new to her full length novels (this beign my 3rd) I bet the rest of them are just as good. I'll be sure to read the rest of this series!	2001-07-02
1937300:US	49200164	R609QTA3LDSKT	0060293152	374371506	The Two Princesses of Bamarre	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Impressive fantasy	In the country of Bamarre there live two Princesses, as different as night and day. One of them Addie is timid and shy but loves no one more than her sister Meryl. Her sister Meryl is strong, stubborn and brave. Meryl's life mission is to one day find the cure for the grey death, a plague that kills people very quickly. Addie only wishes to stay safe inside her palace but her wish is not granted. When her sister is sticken with the grey death she knows she has to do something. But when this something turns out to be leaving her home and finding the cure, facing specters and dragons she finds it hard to deal. Even with the help of a sorceror. Can she save her sister? Or will she be too timid to follow through.<br />I found this book to be very impressive. It was entertaining to see Addie's transfomration through the book from timid little sister, to something more. I reccomend it to fans of Levine's 1st book Ella Enchanted. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did. The only complaint I has was some parts where a tad bit predictable. Other than that it was great. Enjoy!	2001-07-01
1937358:US	49200164	R3BHT2YQ7WDM1J	0060294655	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Being a Princess is far from easy	It's pretty obvious that Mia dosen't really enjoy being the princess of Genovia. I mean it's pretty stressful for any 14-year-old. She has to take Princess lessons, have a body guard follow her around and one day she has to inherit the throne of a country she's only visited. But now to top it off Grandmere has thrown in another ball for her to juggle, interviews. WHen Grandmere plans an interview with one of the most famous newscasters Mia freaks. And of course she makes a complete fool of herself. And at the same time she has to deal with her mothers new pregnency and marriage (thanks to her Algebra teacher). ANd to top it off she has a secret admirer. Couldl it be Michael, Lily's brother who she just adores? Or is it someone scary? But knowing Mia it will be the most entertaining Halloween you've ever read about.<br />I found this book to be even better than the 1st book. In this sotry Mia is put in the spotlight (yet again) and has to try to deal. I enjoy these books so much becasue Mia not only has to deal with being a princess, but a normal teenage girl. Her writing style is humorus and makes me reflect on being a freshman and how awkward it was. If you like funny books and diary books (as I always have) read this one. You won't regret it!	2001-07-01
1937548:US	49200164	RICUWBVEXWPOK	0671039938	872064546	Cinnamon	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Start of a great new Mini-series	Cinnamon's life is about to take a sharp turn. SHe's used to living her life normally at home with her parents and in school with her best friend Clearence. She dosen't have many friend and isn't considered popular becasue of her dark clothes and makeup. But when her mother loses a baby before it's born, she goes crazy. Now Cinnamon has to deal with visiting her mother in the mental hospital, her grandmother taking over her home, romantic feelings for her best friend, and having no one to talk to. ALl she wants to do is exist in the lies she tells. And she might be able to because she has a gift that could make everything better.<br />I found this book to be a step up from the other mini series. It was just as suspenseful and exciting but it was a little more real. My only complaint is Cinnamon's cover picture dosen't really match the one we're given (where's the dark makeup!) but you shouldn't judge a book by it's cover and this one was really good. I reccomend it to fans of VC Andrews work.	2001-07-01
1937802:US	49200164	RDXIMWRO0MT0P	0671028022	102438310	Jade (Wildflowers)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A good edition to the series	When Jade's parents got married they're marriage was more like a buisness partnership. Everything was divided down the middle just in case anything ever happened. And when they had Jade they couldn't divide her. When it comes time for Jade to tell her story in Dr. Marlowe's therapy session, she dosen't want to speak. But when she dose she spins a story of a terrible battle masked by a privileged life. When Jade's parents got divorced they fought over her not becasuse they loved her, but becasue they wanted to come out on top. Will Jade be able to deal with everything? Or will she fall apart.<br />I really liked this book it's a good edition to the series and so far my favroite. I've already read Misty the first one and I'll be sure to read Cat and Star. This is an interesting series and I reccomend it to fans on suspenceful real life novels. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did!	2001-07-01
1938183:US	49200164	R5DT8ASXY0Z1	0679783571	564676745	The Broke Diaries: The Completely True and Hilarious Misadventures of a Good Girl Gone Broke	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Have you ever been broke?	The Broke diaries is the absoultly true story of a normal average collage student who just... goes broke. The whole story tells about her survival off of a very small paycheck. Each of her enterys are about getting rid of bill collectors, going to free poetry readings (REVOLUTION!), shopping with her friends, her hellish new years eve, and walking around with no underwear. Each entry brings a new adventure that some of you might have even gone through yourself and wished you had responded the same way Angela had (or not). I reccomend this book to anyones whose every been broke and/or is going to college soon and will probably end up being broke. I loved this book. It's the funniest thing I've ever read. In fact I read it all in one night (much to my mothers dissaproval, I had to be somewhere the next daY). I would reccomend it to all my friends.	2001-07-01
1944469:US	49200164	R2FYR4OB06VXBH	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A new favorite of mine!	When I saw this book listed on my required reading list, I wrote it off as just another boring required book. And considereing the other book was Gulliver's Travels (yuck) my fears were justified. But when I read this I was surprised to find a very entertaining tale filled with adventure, beautiful description, and colouful charecters. When Bilbo Baggins has a wizard come to his house for tea he never knew it would change his life. The next morning she gets 13 dwaves at his doorstep and soon he is setting out on an adverterous treasure hunt and wondering how he ever got roped into it. With each turn he takes he faces new challenges and forced to find a hidden bravery and confidence in his heart with a little magical help. But when he reaches the end of his journey, getting the treasure may be just as hard as the journey he had to take to get there.<br />I found this book to be entertaining and thrilling. It's classical fantasy and now I see why everyone talks about it. So many people say this is &quot;almost as good as Harry Potter&quot; or &quot;even Better than Harry Potter&quot; but it's so differnt than the Potter books that it would be like comparing apples to oranges. But still if you like fantasy and adventures in strange lands, this book is for you. I think I'm also gonna read the three books that come after it, the famous Lord of the Rings Trilogy. I hope you enjoyed this book as much as I did!	2001-06-26
1948630:US	49200164	R2WQF2ZX9932J8	0064472671	783210115	Trust Me (Fingerprints, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Is Rae helping Anthony? Or bringing him towards destruction	Anthony has helped Rae so much and there's nothing she wants to do more than repay that favor. SHe knows what he wants to know the most, that's find out who his father really is. So using her fingerprint reading ability she searches for Anthony's father with the help of Yana. But as she finds out more she finds out that Anthony might not wanna know about his father. ANd she find out things about her past that are almost equally distrubing. Should she tell Anthony? Or is she heading towards destruction.<br />I found this book to be thrilling and even more interesting than the last. I can't wait till the next book, Secrets, comes out. Rae's adventures are amazing. I reccomend this book to anyone who's a fan of the series. It's a five star book!	2001-06-22
1949136:US	49200164	RFYAVV1HCYHZQ	0439240700	830254044	T'witches #01: The Power Of Two	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An interesting new series	Camryn is a normal 14-year-old girl that's just passed through Freshman year. She considers everything about her to be normal excpet for the fact that she sometimes sees things before they happen, bad things that she dosen't want to know. Alex on the other hand has had a tough life. She lives in a trailer with her mother and has to work every day so she can pay for her &quot;house.&quot; But the strage thing about her is she can here things that people think and don't say out loud. The only thing they have in common is something very big. THey have the same face. WHen they first meet at a fair they won't admit they look a thing like eachother but when tragedy draws them together they fidn out that they have more than they thought in common. And they may have to work together to save a missing girl.<br />I found this book to be entertaining. The idea of finding your mysterious double is interesting and Cam and Alex are great charecters. The story was great, and I can't wait until the next one but something was just missing to make it a 5 star book. I reccomend this series to anyone that's a fan of the Circle of Three Series, or the Witches Night out Series.	2001-06-22
1954947:US	49200164	RLKNWDAIAYQJC	0671034952	425702718	Meets the Eye (Body of Evidence)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The strangest case Jenna has faced to date!	Jenna Blake thought she was done being an assistant Medical Examiner but when a strange series of crimes show up she finds herself strangely drawn towards them. What's so strange about these crimes is the fact that the murderers are already dead. Torn between the want to help and solve the mystery, and to have a normal life with her friends Hunter and Yoshiko and her boyfriend Damon, Jenna is forced to make a serious decision. Will she take her old job back? Even if it means putting her life in jepordy Again??<br />I found this book to be an equally thilling edition to the series, one of the best to date. The &quot;Zombie killings&quot; are baffling and you'll never expect who the real killer is. If your a fan of the Body of evidence series and can stomache reading about a lot of gore, read this book! It's one of the best in the series that I'v read!	2001-06-18
1956428:US	49200164	R16AMLQWJAYZR7	0064472663	86719682	Haunted (Fingerprints, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rae's powers are put to the test	Just when Rae's getting used to her fingerprint reading novel, her powers are put to the test when Jesse goes missing her powers are put to the test. Anthony knows he wouldn't run away without telling him so he's convinced that he much have gotton snatched. Using Rae's ability to read fingerprints as there guide Rae, Anthony, and Yana set out to find Jesse. But as they look furthur they realise that the person that wants Rae dead might be involved.<br />This book was suspenseful and just as good as the last. It was exciting and a real mystery. Rae's a great charecter and the chemistry between Anthony and her is beyond obvious. I wish they would get together. If you like suspenseful books this one is for you. I highly reccomend it.	2001-06-16
1957974:US	49200164	R157EYD0X4GHD3	0064472965	998878595	Circle of Three #6: Ring of Light	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magic takes a back burner in this emotional new book	In this book Kate has a lot to deal with. Her relationship with Tyler has progressed so that her parents invite him over for diner. She wants nothing more for them to not find out about her wiccan ways so she gets stressed by this. But things take a turn for the worst when she finds out her favriote Aunt has Cancer. Annie starts to volunteer at a nursing home so that she can better face death. But she's miserable there. THe rooms smell and one of the residents hate her. How will she deal? Cooper has seperated herself from the circle but will a chance of healing Kate's aunt Draw her back in?<br />In this book the author focuses less on the magic aspects in the three girls life and gears it more towards there emotions and fears, with wonderful results. This book was well written and lets you know what the charecters are really feeling. The next one \\"Blue moon\\" looks really interesting and suspenseful. I reccommed this book to anyone who's a fan of the series. I read it in a day.	2001-06-15
1959641:US	49200164	R18I394GA19KBN	0440228964	350518823	The Hermit Thrush Sings	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An enchanting tale	THe Hermit takes place in a world where the state of Maine has become Maynor and society has crumbled ever since a meteor stuck the earth. In this place Leora lives. She looks outside the gate of her villiage and wishes that she could travel to places far away. But she can't becasue that is forbidden. She lives her life quietly, not making many friends because of her mutation. Her left hand is webbed and has the strange ability to draw things that haven't come yet with it. But one day everything changes when she saves a baby Brinbar from being killed and stepps outside to forbidden lands. When she is caught she runs away on her own quest for family, and to find out more about her past.<br />I loved this book. It takes place in a futuristic world that resembles the one that Lois Lowry has so expertly crafted in her books such as THe Giver and Gathering Blue. It's suspenceful, exciting, and filled with beautiful descriptions. It will remain one of my favriotes for a long time and I can old hope for a sequel! I would reccomed this to anyone of my friends!	2001-06-14
1963531:US	49200164	R3EXZP62JTF52E	0152016090	396228917	Court Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book II	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Just as good as the last book!	Six months after Crown Duel ended Countess Meliara recieves two strange surprises. One is a letter from the former king's sister inviting her to court. The other is her brother Bran coming home with a new bride-to-be and Vidanric, who she can't stand. After a little while of preparation Mel dose end up going a court and finds herself feeling toatally out of place. She's now entered a place that's just as deadly as war. Even though she has friends and admirers she finds the only person she can confide in is the mysterious admirerer who she correponds with letters. Who is this unknown person? And what fate lies for her in court?<br />I really enjoyed this book. It tells the continuing story of Countess Meliara that we left off in in Crown Duel. The story was amazing and filled with mystery, suspence, and romance. THough it's a lot different than Crown Duel it's just as exciting. I reccomend this book to fans of midevil tales and strong heriones. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did! I just pray that there's a sequel!	2001-06-11
1966211:US	49200164	R3UWGDX69TRSI4	0449703746	579376061	So Much to Tell You	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I read it all in one night!	So much to tell you tells the story of a girl named Marina who since some tragic event has not been able to talk. She's spent a while in a hospital but even that wouldn't help her. SO in hope that she might find a voice and interact with others her mother sends her to a boarding school. In this school she recieves a journal she has to write in for school. As she starts pouring out her emotions, and even reaching out to students, she starts to admit what really happen. Will she ever have the chance to speak again? Read the book and find out.<br />I really enjoyed this book. It tells the emotional story of one girls stuggle to get over her past and growing up. Though it's short it's definatly a powerful read. If you like stories such as &quot;Don't you Dare read this Mrs. Dumphery&quot; or other diary stories I reccomend this book to you. It's really a great read.	2001-06-09
1970878:US	49200164	R2DNB314FC0BTV	0064472655	584817030	Gifted Touch (Fingerprints, Book 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A new orginal series!	Rae can't help it but sometimes she hears thoughts in her head. Thoughts that aren't her own. She dosen't understand why and she sometimes thinks she crazy. After having a mental breakdown in the middle of the cafeteria at the end of her sophmore year she spent her summer in hospitals and is still going to group therapy. SHe's nervous of what people will think about her when she comes back to school. She wonders if they'll be afraid of her. In her group therapy meetings she meets Anthony who's tough bravado seems to cover up deep problems. But when something terrible happens to Rea she's forced to face her secret and use her strange powers. But will that be enough to save Anthony?<br />I really enjoyed this book. The concept was orginal and the charecters were complex and different than others that you usually see in books. If you liked series like Fearless and the Sweep series this book is for you. I hope I get to read the second book in the Series. It's called Haunted.	2001-06-06
1976394:US	49200164	ROIC48OGJ7B6L	0060288140	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The misadventures of a teenage girl	Angus thongs and full frontal snogging is a book about the hilarious misadventures of an \\"average\\" teenage girl. Georgia Nicholson is just trying to survive through her first year of high school, convince her mother to let her wear makeup, survive her little sister who has some very bad habits, live with her part-wildcat cat named Angus, deal with her slightly clueless friend, take snogging lessons, live with her parents, ....<br />THough she seems to pretty much mess up with everything Georgia's diary is funny, true to life, and a great book to read when you're having a bad day. People who grew up reading the Ramona books will enjoy reading about this Brit teen. If you're a fan of books like \\"The Princess Diaries\\" and other humorous diary books you'll love this. It will make you want to start a diary of your own! I reccomend it to any teenage girl who's convinced that they have the most hectic life in the world. You're wrong. You haven't meet Georgia.	2001-06-01
1976484:US	49200164	R1M2BE49CU4QGL	0060288132	605226542	On the Bright Side, I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God: Further Confessions of Georgia Nicolson	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Just as good as the last	Just when Georgia thinks her life is going great... everything goes wrong! This book picks up exactly where the last one left off. WHen Georgia finds out her parents are making her move to New Zealand she should know it's a bad sign. She wants more than anything to be able to stay home with her &quot;Sex God&quot; boyfriend but she's horrified when he breaks up with her casue she's &quot;too young.&quot; This diary follows her stressful summer and the start of her sophmore year which inculdes: another fight with her best friend, a &quot;red herring&quot; plan, Angus the cat's true love (don't ask just read), her mother possibly having an affair, and just being the girlfriend of a sex god.<br />When I brought this book home from the library I literay had to hide the cover because I didn't feel like getting a &quot;inapropiate book&quot; speach from my parents. But the truth of it is it's not at all dirty and it's just as funny as the last one. If you enjoyed the last book of the series you'll love this one. And good news! THe author is working on two more! I can't wait!	2001-06-01
1979580:US	49200164	RCLFJFSFZL0OD	0380978482	287069968	The Princess Diaries (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	How can Mia live a normal life if she's a princess???	Mia spends her whole life thinking she's a normal teenager. But everything changes when she learns her father is a Prince! And since a recent scare with testicular cancer he can't have anymore kids, leaving Mia as the only living heir to the throne. Meaning she's a real life Princess!  But Mia dosen't take this too well. She's forced to take Princess lessons from her grandmere eveyday after school and now she has a whole side of her she has to hide from her best friend Lilly! SHe's having a hard enough time dealing without anyone knowing but what if somone did find out?<br />The Princess Diaries is the humorus tale of a normal girl who just happens to have some not so normal qualities. Her diary is humorus, almost as good as Louise Rennison's Geogia Nicholson series. And she's so easy to relate to. I can remember struggleing over ALgebra all last year too! If you like books like &quot;Angus, thongs and full frontal snogging&quot;  you'll love this. And in other good news. There's a sequel coming out!	2001-05-30
1979656:US	49200164	R1XL1N7MWWJJ9C	0152016082	642896985	Crown Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book I	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Can Meliara keep her promise?	When Meliara and her brother Branaric's father dies they make a promise to him on his death bed that they will keep the covenant, defend their lands, and fight agaist the evil king. But what the two don't realize is how hard it will be to rage a war. WHen Mel is caputured by the Marquis she is taken to the castle and starts on a whirlwind chase to get back home. Followed in persuit by enemy court royals she can stay in one place for so long. Will she even return home to finish fighting the battle with Bran? Or will she be killed in running.<br />This story was a good tale of adventure. Mel is a high spirited, subborn heroine who you'll immeaditally fall in love with. The other charecters like the Marquis and Bran are equally adictive. If you like adventure stories with a dash of magic (and a possible romance perhaps?) read this story. You'll love it I guarentee.	2001-05-30
1983525:US	49200164	R3VQW1BYY2V5JZ	0152025510	766839073	The Wizard's Dilemma: The Fifth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The long awaited 5th book in the Series	It's a little while after we left off with Nita and Kit in A Wizard Abroad and they're a little older, a little wiser, and a little more in control. But after a fight they fear that they're divided forever. But after this fight they find themselves immeaditally pulled apart even more as they both embark on seperate journies. <br />Nita has a lot to deal with when her mother gets sick with a cancer that could kill her. She tries to use her wizardry to help her but soon finds out that the only way to solve it might be to give up eveything she's worked for. Kit's busy too. One day when he's out walking his dog, Ponch, he finds himself in a whole new world, literaly. Can the two pull together in time to solve the problem? Or are they divided for good.<br />I was nearly jumping out of my seat when I heard that their was going to be a 5th book in this series and now I pray Diane Duane will write a new one soon. She once again brings the charecters we all know and love alive once again. This book is one of the best ones in the series to date (next to Deep Wizardry). I reccomend this book to anyone whose a fan of the Young Wizards Series and I reccomend this series to fans of magic. I'll be sure to read this one again and again.	2001-05-27
1984621:US	49200164	R271ZZHZGIPUT8	0688163653	527543947	The Lives of Christopher Chant (A Chrestomanci Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A thrilling tale of the Chrestomanci	Evey night when young Christopher Chant goes to sleep he turns a corner in his room and enters The Place Between. From there he enters the Anywheres, magical worlds where people are kind to him and give him gifts. And when people find out about his gifts and the fact that he has nine lives they're more than thrilled. CHristopher suddenly finds himself thrown into two words. The world of his Uncle and his magical tests in the anywheres, and the world of the Chrestomanci in the Chrestomanci castle. Through this story CHristopher's magic and loyalty will be tested. And even though he dosen't want it, he's destined to become the great Chrestomanci who we know of so well in Charmed Life.<br />In my opinion this book housed what the last one I read (Magicians of Caprona) lacked. THe actual presence of the Chrestomanci for more than a couple scenes. I really enjoyed this book and even though I'm done with the series (it was good while it lasted) I'm thinkign about digging into more of the authors work. If you like tales of magic and adventure you'll love this book.	2001-05-25
1986243:US	49200164	R1ATJJKHEMGDZ3	068816613X	692618099	The Magicians of Caprona (A Chrestomanci Book)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An exciting book in the Chrestomanci Series	In Italy, a place far far away from the Chrestomanci's home there lives two houses &quot;both alike in dignity&quot; (hehe though I'd through in a little SHakespere) who are very talented in making spells. The would work together magically if it wasn't for an old family feud that pits them against eachother every day. In the Montana house lives a boy named Tonino who has terrible luck working even the simpelest spells, but he has an amazing ability to talk to cats. When the Montana home and the Petrocci home enter a time of war, Tonino is thrown into the middle of a terrible plot. And the only way he can save Caprona is by finding the true words to the Angel song, which is the stongest spell known in the world. Which is hard enough now add onto the fact that he has to wrok with her sworn enemy, a Petrocci girl. Can the two stop fighting long enough to find the spell? Or will the evil enchanter have their way.<br />Though this wook wasn't as good as Charmed Life of Witch week it was still very entertaining. The plot line of two feuding houses it a bit chiched ever since Montagues and the Capulet's in Romeo and Juiet dropped into the scene. But the whole magic factor makes it a bit more orginal. All in all it was a very entertaining book. I'll probably read it again in again. I just wish Chrestomanci would show up a bit more. In the past few books he's only swooped in in time to do some magic, expalin things, than leave. I reccomend this to anyone whose a fan of the series. The last book in the series, The Lives of Christopher Chant, is on my shelf and ready to be read.	2001-05-24
1991895:US	49200164	R3DD01G5J5VX5P	0688155456	396997506	Witch Week (Chrestomanci Quartet)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just as good as Charmed Life	In a very strange world, different and similar to ours, in a classroom a teacher finds a note tucked inbetween too books. &quot;Someone in this class is a witch&quot; is written in big letters. But who is the witch? In this world every witch, good or bad, is condemmed to be burned at the stake. Could this witch be Charles, a boy who's just discovered he can do spells? Or is it Nam, a girl who's named atfter the most famout Witch of them all? THe teacher dosen't know but from that day on strange things start to happen. Things that only the great Chrestomanci can fix.<br />I really liked this book. It was just as good as the other book in the series I've read, Charmed life. If your a fan of magic books and/or works by Diane Wynne-Jones I really reccomend this book. I'm part-way through the next book in the series and I'm just as pleased. If you like fictional witchcraft and magic read this book!	2001-05-20
1993434:US	49200164	R3J3MNEG9MXXFI	0688155464	400028682	Charmed Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An emtertaining story	Cat looks up to his sister Gwendolyn more than anyone else. It's prefectly obvious why, she's a very powerful witch. And ever since the two sibling's parents died Cat has clung to her every day. And when he's sent to llive with Mrs. Sharp, all she wants to do is nourish Gwendolyn's gift. But when there sent to live with the fabled Chrestomanci Gwendolyn is more or less put in her place. SHe is not allowed to pratice witchcraft. SO she sets up into proving the Chrestomanci wrong and porving that she is the most powerful one of them all. But Cat know's what his sister is capable of and when she dose something so powerful, he's the one who has to fix it.<br />Like many people I found the title of this book on a online list called &quot;what to read after Harry Potter.&quot; When I read this I was very entertained. Cat's story is thrilling and suspenceful. I reccomend this book to fans of fantasy books such as Harry Potter and/or Tamora Pierce. Though it's not as good as JK Rowling's creations it's definatly a novel any fantasy lover should put in their collection. I'm planning on reading the other four novels in the series too. Read it you won't be dissapointed.	2001-05-19
1996148:US	49200164	R22FJREG6UTWHJ	0141311118	111838418	Blood Witch (Sweep, No. 3)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Who can Morgan trust?	When Morgan finds her birth mother's Book of Shadows she finds herself even more obnsessed with finding out more about her. But she dosen't have time for that. SHe also has to deal with her budding relationship with Cal. The fact that a close friend may leave the coven, and two new mysterious witches in town. They're names are Hunter and Sky. Morgan knows she can't trust Hunter from the moment she first saw him. Everything about her makes her stomache turn. But when he tells her things that surprise and hurt her she dosen't know what to do, or who to trust....<br />This book was just as suspenceful as the first two but with a touch of mystery that's new and refresing. I'm sure to read the next book in the series, Dark Magick, when it comes out. If your a fan of the 1st two books you won't be dissapointed	2001-05-17
2001810:US	49200164	RQPXFI8I8L8HZ	0064472957	667376739	Circle of Three #5: In the Dreaming	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wow! I can't wait for the next one!	In the book &quot;In the Dreaming&quot; the circle of three girls celebrate Midsummer's eve with absollutely no idea what's in store for them. All they know as they where told to come in dressed in costume. So when they all set out in the woods alone they each embark on a new exciting adventure. Cooper runs into a girl named Bird and finds herself up to a challengeing trial with only her talents and instict as her guide. Annie finds herself in the middle of a battle between too wood kings and is forced to reflect on a part of her life that scares her the most. Kate is sent out to find true love. Dose she love Tyler or Scott? The fairy Queen is going to make her choose. They all face their own trials but at the end of the day the circle of three will become a circle of two.<br />I think this is a very suspenceful read and it's a very good book. Unlike the other books in the series we don't get focused on just one person but we get to see what happens to everyone. The ending is quite a cliffhanger. If you like the other books in the Circle of Three series you'll like this.	2001-05-12
2012123:US	49200164	R3TH0R0JT70E6S	0394825993	994590504	The Shadow in the North (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A thrill!	Wow was this book good. The shadow in the North is a thrilling mystery novel about two cases and the link between them. In this story Sally has matured into a woman and owns her own buisness as a financial consultant. When a lady comes to her after losing 3 thousand pounds Sally is shocked. The stock she told her to invest in was very safe and profitable. Meanwhile Fredric and Jim get involved in another case. After Jim saves the life of a Scottish medium he realizes that there is more to his story than fake physic visions. But when these two seemingly different cases intertwine with one another the three charecters may discovered that they're involved in something much more complicated than they expected.<br />In my opinion this book had the certain something that the first one lacked (not that that book was bad or anything). It's fast paced and exciting. I nearly creid when you-know-what happened! If your a fan of the Sally Lockheart Trilogy I reccomend you read this. I'll be sure to read the last one.	2001-05-03
2013144:US	49200164	R1IINQCUQYKG6L	0743412494	169539843	Tears (Fearless #15)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Dose Gaia have hope for a good semi-normal life??	Gaia's life has taken a pleasent turn ever since she returned from Paris. She has a family, she has a boyfriend, and she has friends. To Gaia, she consideres her life to be perfect. But for everyone else, they might be smiling on the outside but they're going through pain on the inside. Ever since Sam stopped being a suspect for murder he hasn't been doing so great. And now Josh is starting to act strange, and Sam's been recieving threatening calls warning him to stay away from Gaia. Ed on the other hand is in quite a dilemma. Should he lie about the fact that he may walk again to get money for Heather's in debt family?<br />Though it dosen't measure up to Missing. Tears is a very good book. It has the spirit of the old fearless books and a much better cover picture if I do say so myself. I reccomend this to all fans of the series. I know you'll enjoy it.	2001-05-02
2027864:US	49200164	R36GZVM1XY8LJW	0671007637	960434439	Runaways	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very good	We all know what put the strong Brooke, the intelligent Crystal, the loyal Raven and the fragil Butterfly in the orphanege. But what happened after that? THis book tells that.<br />Life at the orphanege isn't fun for the four Orphanteers but it's liveable. Or so they think until their foster father takes a step too far. So to get freedom they plan their escape and set out to California on the open road. But once they get on the road their faced with more they could ever imagine. Who should they trust? Who's safe? Who's gonna help them? Making good and bad choices on the way the four orphans work slowly towards their destiny. ANd they'll make it, just as long as they don't get caught.<br />I was plesently surprised with this novel. The short books where great reads that I enjoyed a lot but they where just missing something. This was definaly a good book. I reccomend it to anyone whose a VC Andrews and an Orpahns fan. I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did!	2001-04-19
2028559:US	49200164	R37QW1G7VHQ0KF	0671028006	105863234	Misty (Wildflowers)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good	All Misty ever wanted was to be normal, but unfortunatly her dreams where shattered when her parents divorced and started to use her as a way to hurt each other. hurt and vulnerable Misty looks towards other things to make her happy, things that she should stay away form. Things that land her in Dr. Marlowe's office. Now she has a chance to tell her story to three girls with stories a lot like hers. How will they react?<br />This story was pretty good. It was short and pretty well written but it wasn't VC Andrews best work. I do reccomend it but I'd reccomend taking it out from the library instead of buying it. It's still a good book though and I'm planning on reading the other books in the series (Star, Jade, Cat, and Into the garden)	2001-04-19
2030024:US	49200164	R3RYYCV66K3K7Z	0743407865	362999147	Brave New Girl	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good book on being a teen	Doreen isn't a normal teen. She's an outcast and misunderstood by nearly everyone, even her own family. The only things in life she seems to enjoy is her best freind Ted and her love of music. But one summer things all change. She meets Matthew, her sisters 21-year-old boyfriend. And she goes to a party she was dead set against going too. Then things just don't make sense to her anymore. SHe is convinced that if she could just meet her brother Hernry,who left when he was 14, she would understand all that was going on. But since Henry isn't coming back she has to deal with the pains of growing up all by herself, or dose she?<br />I really liked this book. Doreen's views on life are very reallistc. I enjoyed it a lot. If your a fan of such novels such as Speak, you'lll love this book. I would reccomend it with anyone going through the painful teenage years.	2001-04-18
2033566:US	49200164	R1L5H8U4OBD94A	0060278234	895619710	Lirael: Daughter of the Clayr	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Amazing sequel	The book Lirael tells the story about two very special charecters, both different and similar in many ways. Lirael has never felt like a daughter of the Clayr. Not only dose she look different from the rest of the tanned, blond haired, blue eyed Clayr but she lacks the single most important thing that defines her as a Clayr. The SIght, or ability to see into the future. THis bothers her so much that she decides to end her life. But she is stopped and suddenly her life changes forever. Little dose she know but she has a destiny that not even the most expert Clayr could predict.<br />This story is also about the young Prince Sameth (son of Sabriel and King Touchstone). Since his sister will become the Queen of the old Kingdom, it's his job to become the Abhorsen. The only problem is he is deathly afraid of death (pun not intended). THere is nothing he wants less than to not be the Abhorsen. But dose he have a choice?<br />With a wonderful story that rivals it's predecessor, Sabriel, Lirael is definatly a must read. You'll enjoy seeing some old charecters such as Mogget (my favorite charecter), Sabriel, and Touchstone. And a bunch of new and entertaining charecters too. If you liked Sabriel you'll love this book.	2001-04-15
2033883:US	49200164	R15OC3H3RXWN5D	061309235X	214331890	Crystal	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Crystal has a new chance for a better life	Intelligent Crystal has spent most of her life living in a not so nice orphanage. She watched others get adopted before her and tried to sever all ties off from people her age. But one day everything changes when she's adopted by two very nice people Thelma and Kurt. Kurt lives his life by a constant schedual and is very organized. Thelma lives her life through the soap operas she watches on TV and the Romance novels she reads. Crystal feels slighlty out of place in this world but finds a friend in the smart boy down the street, Bernie. But when one single act shatters all that she has. She finds herself back where she started.<br />Like Raven and Butterfly, Crystal is a good read though a bit unrealistic. I'm looking foreward to read Brooke (the 3rd short book in the series) and Runaways (the full length novel staring all four girls.)	2001-04-15
2034263:US	49200164	RMNZ0RVHDRUBM	0671020315	547094384	Raven (Orphans)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A bit unrealistic but still a good read	Raven's upbringing wasn't the best. Her mother smoked ..., had one too many one night stands, and drank too much. She never knew her father and her mother never remarried. But some how out of all of this she managed to blossom as a good, strong person. But she's put to the test when her mother gets in troulbe for drugs and she has to live with her spoiled cousin Jennifer, her cruel uncle Reuben, her sweet cousin William, and gentle aunt. Life dosen't get any easier for Raven since her Uncle and Jennifer seem to be trying to ruin her life. Will she be able to survie?<br />I've only read another book in this series (Butterfly) and I found this one to be not so realistc but still a good read. I'm planning on reading the other two (Brooke and Crystal) with high hopes. VC Andrews is a talented writer or suspense and mystery. I hope her other books are just as good.	2001-04-14
2038468:US	49200164	R3GIEYF53JHER7	0141310901	82793978	Popover (Have a Nice Life #3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who knew changeing your future could be so complicated	Zola wants to get back her boyfriend Evan, and get even with Claudia for steeling him from her. But will her vengeful tatcis be too much? And what will happen when they affect the people who thought they where her friends.<br />Sally wants to get out of her future of never leaving town. Is buying a drum set the answer? Or is it just a waste of money and time.<br />Olivia wants to prove that she can to better than just be a flight attendant. SO when she gets a new job she finds her life going positive. But will this new found happiness last? Don't count on it.<br />Min wants to break up with Tobias and move on. Things are perfect she even has a great guy, Miles, she can move on to. But who thought breaking up with the one who drives you the most insane would be so complicated.<br />THis book tells the continuing saga of four girls trying to change their future by altering the present. But every timt they try something their fairy godmother, Clearence Tearence (nicknamed Lenny), tells them they're just moving closer to their dommed fates. Just like the last two books in the series this book was a humorous telling about friendship, finding yourself, and changeing your fate. If you like the series read this one! The next upcomming book is called Score.	2001-04-10
2038730:US	49200164	RN02U6A9IIHFI	0743411390	549642303	When Lightning Strikes (1-800-Where-R-You)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Jess's life changes all casue of one bolt of lightning	Jessica isn't the most even tempered girl in the world. In fact she's conmstantly getting in trouble for beating up guys much bigger than she is. So one day when walkign home from detention with her friend Ruth she get's hit by lightning. But since she isn't affected by it right away she thinks little of it. But then she starts having dreams about the little kids on the back of the milk cartons. For some strange reason she knows where they are. So she calls the number and tells the person on the line, whose name happens to be Rosemary, where they are. And the dreams don't stop. Suddenly everyone wants to know about this strange girl named Jess who can find the children on the milk cartons. And a group of men from the military wants to put her in a special research facility. And Jess isn't too keen on that.<br />Just like Jenny Carroll's Mediator Series, her new series 1-800-WHERE-R-U is filled with strong charecters and suspenseful plot lines. IF your a fan of her past work you'll love this series.	2001-04-10
2041307:US	49200164	RP3CDZ2AAASJA	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good books for Potterheads (people obsessed with the series)	If your obsessed with the Harry Potter Series these books are good quick reads to help numb the pain that we won't see a new book for over a year (gasp!). If you buy these too books you'll get to see the books that Harry really reads in the series. Quidditch Through the Ages is one of Harry's favorite books and gives you all the basic knowlege on the popular sport and some background information. Fantastic Beasts and where to find them comes from the hands of Harry Potter himself. You can flip through and read all intresting facts about mythical animals. SOme that have appeared in the Series, some that haven't. What's evne better about this book is it has comments written by Harry, Ron, and sometimes Hermione around the text. Just like a real school book. And to top it off their are intorductions by Dumbledoor himself. Like I said before if you're a true Potterhead these short little tidbits will be a treat. Now if only &quot;order of the Phoenix&quot; would come out just a little faster.	2001-04-08
2041832:US	49200164	R10N5NWB1KHIOA	0064472949	784361912	What the Cards Said (Circle of Three, Book 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Can Tarot cards change Annie?	When Annie discovers the Tarot cards she amazed with them. Reading them is like solving a puzzle and she has a natural talent for them. She ever voluenteers (with a little persuation from Cooper and Kate) to give readings at a carnival. But when her predictions come true she finds herself becoming more popular, and surrounded with more &quot;friends&quot; than she's ever had. Everyone wants Tarot readings, everyone wants to see their future. THen things start to go terribly wrong, things than can tear the circle of three apart, things that can make the whole school turn on Annie. Can the three witches make things right?<br />Just like the last three books in the series, What the Cards said is a good story about inward struggles and confilcts between friends and enemies. It makes the Tarot cards sound so intresting but dangerous at the same time. If your a fan of the Sweep Series, Daughters of the moon, or Silver Ravenwolf's Witches Chillers this book is for you. You'll love it I gaurentee.	2001-04-07
2042024:US	49200164	RQO6ROIT7XTSM	0786807083	646904924	Night Shade (Daughters of the Moon)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Jimena has to face a familliar figure from her past	Everyone knows Jimena as one of the must stubborn and bravest members of the daughters of the moon, but in this book we learn how she got her bravery. Before Jimena found out she was a Goddess she was one of the toughest girls in a gang. Everyone was afraid of her and she knew it. But now that she's shed her bad girl past, a famillar face is comign back to haunt her. It's Veto, a long lost dead boyfriend from her past. What is Veto? Is he real? Did he ever die? Is he back for good? Or is he just an evil tool of the atrox set out to destroy the goddesses. Jimena dosen't know but she's about to find out.<br />Like the last two books in the series Night shade is exciting and a page turner. I toatally reccomend this book for fans of the series and the supernatural. I can't wait to read the next book in the series, The Secret Scroll, which stars Catty.	2001-04-07
2044428:US	49200164	R3IRDZP2JSLSU6	0743400291	920361420	Don't Tell (Dark Secrets)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lauren has come home, but someone dosen't want her there	Don't tell is the Second book in the Dark Secrets series. ANd just like legacy of Lies it combines the supernatural with a thrilling mystery. In this book Lauren has come home years after her mother died in the town she grew up in. Since then she has lived a priveleged life but never quite gotton over her mothers death. When she comes home she meets some famillar faces. Her godmother whose mood swings are puzzleing. Her old pal Nick who she's becomming attracted to. Her cousin Holly who welcomes her home with open arms, and Nora, whose damaged mind is convinced that Lauren's mother, Sondra is haunting the boat house. But when Lauren stays at her old home for a while she notices that someone dosen't want her home. She finds her life being threatened on a daily basis and all of her electrical cords have been tied into a mysterious knot, just like what happened before her mother died. SHe suspects that Nora has something to do with it because she seems far from sane. But w!hen she digs deeper she discovers a dark secret that expalins why her mother's death wasn't an accident and that the killer is still out there.<br><br>I found this book to be just as good as Legacy of lies. Reading about Lauren's stuggle proving that she's sane and her mothers death wasn't an accident is entertaining. THe book is thillign suspenseful and filled with twists and turns. If you liked Legacy of lies and suspence stories, read this.	2001-04-05
2049563:US	49200164	R3DTQSTJ77IC1L	0399236015	923696830	Castaways of the Flying Dutchman	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Proof that Brian Jacques talents reach further than Redwalll	Being a Brian Jacques fan for the past five years, I was surprised when he decided to come out with something new. I mean I couldn't picture him telling any other kind of story than Redwall (I mean let's face it his seven short stories aren't his usual masterpieces). So when I picked up this book I was a little skeptical. But when I finished it I was plesently surprised. Castaways... tells the story of Neb and his talking dog Den who are the only survivors of the famous Flying Dutchman. After the shipwreck through an Angel's gift the two are left alive, and with the ablilty to never age or die. In the 19th century he is pulled into a mystery which could save a sleeply little town from being destroyed. But he's on a time limit. Becasue he has to ring with the sound of a church bell, and the villains who are going to steal the town aren't gonna wait for them to solve the mystery.<br />If you're a fan of Brian Jacgues or just a really good mystery novel read this book. I'm hopeing for a sequel or a prequel to fill in some of the missing years.	2001-03-31
2050019:US	49200164	R3PJU3BRKRZBNH	0743400771	6493410	Violet Eyes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Angel has a secret... and Michael has one too	Angel enjoys her life in Chincaga. SHe's known as the idea girl amongst her friends becasue she always seems to come up with the greatest ideas for games and things to do. She's amazing at sports, school (though she chooses not to show it), and pretty much everything else. Then when she meets Michael, she knows that she hates him from the start. He's good at everything she's good at, possibly better. But when ANgel gets closer to him she may find out some of the secrets of her past. And she finds out that everything she knows is way too unreal.<br />THough it was a little confusing I was greatly satisfied with this book. I'm not usually a big fan of futuristic books with the exception of a few) but I really liked this one. The historical projects seem very real (and not a bad idea. I'd like to go back to Midevil times or egypt) and I'm looking foreward to the sequel. Maybe now that I know what's going on it will be a bit less confusing to me.	2001-03-31
2061481:US	49200164	R28L57C5ZI706P	1550741144	864947628	My Mother's Ghost	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Spooky Ghost Story	When Jess's father moves the family to a ranch after the death of Jess's brother life is not easy for anyone. Jess's mother is slowly losing his mind and Jess is being forced into a world she wants nothign to do with. But when she hears her mother speaking to someone in her room in the night time, she's convinced that she's gone crazy. But as Jess digs into the past and finds an old journal she learns that her mother's Ghost is real, but not in the way she thinks.<br />I was impressed with this book. The first couple chapters are a bit slow but once you get past that you realize that it's an amazing book. It's written in two parts, one from Jess's world and another as Ian's journal. If you've read any other one of Margaret Buffie's books or just love a good ghost story this book is for you. I highly reccomend it.	2001-03-21
2069070:US	49200164	R3MJ1CRU5MCFCP	0064470954	507453006	Cherokee Bat and the Goat Guys (Weetzie Bat)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	While the adults are away the children shall play...	When the adults in the house are away. Cherokee Bat, Witch Baby, Rapheal Jah-Love, and Angel Juan are left under the care of Coyote. To keep themselves occupied they start a band that gives them much more than they bargined for. Staring Cherokee as the main charecter, Cherokee Bat and the Goat Guys, it tells about her need to help people and her want to be special. But when things spiral out of control Cherokee is forced to grow up too fast.<br />If you're a fan of the past two books in the Dangerous Angel's series you'll like this one. Though it's a little more simple than the other two, and a little less fairy tale like it's still carries the spirit and beautiful language that Block is so famous for. I'm definatly gonna finsh up the series by reading the next two.	2001-03-14
2069461:US	49200164	R19KQ78I78GHC2	0743412486	811014026	Missing (Fearless #14)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best books in the series	WHen we last left off in the series Gaia was leaving to go to Germany with the man she thought was her trusted Uncle Oliver who was dying from cancer. Ed undergoed massive surgery that could possibly let him walk again and Sam finds himself falling in love with Gaia and involved in the murder case of his friend. Now to tell you what happened in this book whould be a crime becasue I'd be spoiling it for you. Let's just say it has a lot less action, but is a lot more emotional. It's an important novel in the series that's sure to change everything, and everyone in it. It also reminds you on how evil Heather is. You'll never look at her the same way again after this book! I reccomend this book for anyone who loves the Fearless Series. You need to read this one!	2001-03-14
2075283:US	49200164	R15RQ7JE94V8T5	0064408183	492869537	Weetzie Bat (10th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A modern fairy tale	About a year ago I picked up this book, read the first chapter and passed it off as too strange. I had no idea what a big mistake I was making. I picked this up again a few days ago and was shocked on how good it was. Weetzie bat tells the story of Weetzie and her adventures in life and love. She lives an average life until she gets three wishes from a genie and all of them come true. Though the writing is escentric the situations are very real under the surface. If your a fan of her other writings, especially the Rose and the Beast, you'll love this book. I'm sure to read the rest of the books in the entire series.	2001-03-09
2075515:US	49200164	R2W60XBL6AI903	0064470652	434299507	Witch Baby (Weetzie Bat)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Where dose witch baby belong?	Witch Baby dosen't know where she belongs. ALl she knows that she was left on Weetzie Bat and My Secret Angent Lover Man's doorstep when she was only a baby. SHe spends her life taking pictures of her family but never appearing in one her self. When she becomes curious on who her real parents are and where she really belongs in the world she runs away to find her family. Only to find it in an unexpected place. <br />Like Weetzie bat even though the story is written as a fairy tale in an escentric way, Witch Baby deals with problems that everyone dose. Wanting to find a place in life and feeling as if you don't belong. I reccomend this book to anyone who's a fan of the series. It's twice as good as the last!	2001-03-09
2092768:US	49200164	R3VI79RWXHGMYU	0141310472	472741373	The Coven (Sweep, No. 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Morgan's powers are stronger than she thought	After Morgan was announced into the coven everything changed. SHe has a boyfriend, her best friend hates her, and she's seeing everything in a new life. But when she learns a life shattering secret from her past her view on everything is changed. She finds herself getting futhur and futhur into wicca against her parents wishes and she suddenly feels as if she belongs. But will her thirst for knowlege about her real birth mother change everything? Or will it just destory it.<br />Like the last book in the series this book is an amazing book on magical witches. But unlike the last in the series it's much more suspenseful and dark. I loved this book it's better than the last and I can't wait till the next one comes out. I reccomend it to anyone who's read the first book or is a fan of Silver Ravenwolf's Witches Chillers books.	2001-02-23
2093665:US	49200164	R35AWX3085BLEN	0141310464	283503882	Book of Shadows (Sweep, No. 1)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An entertaining new Series	Morgan has never really heard that much about Wicca until she meets Cal, a male witch who she finds herself strangely drawn to it. She has so many questions that she needs answered. Like what is wicca about? And why dose she has these strange reactions to circles? She wants to learn, but even more she wants Cal. Unfortunatly her much prettier friend Bree has a crush on him, amd she's willing to to anything to get him. Including crush their friendship.<br />Just like the Circle of Three series, the Sweep series provides a more realiztic veiw of wicca. Morgan is easy to relate to and the whole book is a great source of information on wicca. If you liked the Circle of Three series and the Daughters of the Moon series you'll love this one.	2001-02-22
2096335:US	49200164	R395JY6QUTUH4W	0671787985	750389760	Ninth Key (The Mediator)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Suze has a new challenge	When Suze is comfronted by a screaming ghost asking for her to find Red and tell her that he didn't kill her, she knows she has to act. SO when she finally finds a Red, named Red Beaumont, she shocked to find out that he's the father of the first guy she's even dated, Tad Beaumont. But as she continues into this case she finds herself involved in something much bigger. Is this what she was supposed to do? Or has she found herself involved in something a little too supernatural.<br />Just like the last book in the series this book was entertaining and a great ghost story. Don't always go for the obvious answers, becasue you never know what to expect. This book is just as good as the last. Even though another book hasn't announced for the series I hope another one is at least in the works!	2001-02-20
2096887:US	49200164	R3EEVL0C8ION6A	0064472930	297548332	Second Sight (Circle of Three #3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cooper's having visions, can she help?	Cooper Rivers been having nightmeres. Very vivid nightmere's where she can feel, taste and smell what's going on. SHe dosen't think much of them until she starts seeing a girl whenever she looks into flames. She soon learns that this girl is Elizabeth, a 15-year-old who was kidnapped and possibly killed. She dosen't know what to do but she knows she needs to help Elizabteh before it's too late. Can Cooper use her visions for good. Or will someone use it to expose her and the circle of three.<br />I consider this book to be the best in the series. It's nice to see an adventure that has Cooper as the main charecter. The new charecters (such as a nosy reporter who truley is the Rita Skeeter of the series) are entertaining and I hope they come back in later in the series. I can't wait until the next book in the series, What the Cards said, comes out. It stars Annie, who is my favriote charecter.	2001-02-20
2098007:US	49200164	R3BC8M330YPIRP	0064472922	223246983	Merry Meet (Circle of Three# 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good second book to the series	Kate's facination with wicca takes a new turn in this book. As she continues to stuggle with her wish weather to be a witch or not she keeps on finding herself drawn to the craft. After attending a ritual for a Wiccan holiday, Kate meets two very important people. Sasha, another blessed wanna be who uses wicca for more as a way to get what she wants. And Tyler a mysterious male witch who's she finds herself attracted to even though she still is going out with Scott. Is Sasha really who she says she is? Should she go out with Tyler or Scott. Read this book you won't be dissapointed.<br />I loved this book mostly becasue the witches in this book were MORE real than ones you see on TV. There's not giant balls of flashing light or creating earthquakes with anger. There's just simple spells, and a real good introduction to wicca. It's really a facinating relgion. I hope you enjoy the book as much as I did. THe next one (&quot;witch&quot; I am half way through right now) is called Second sight and unlike the first too, it houses Copper as the main charecter.	2001-02-19
2098700:US	49200164	RNXZUSEF4KVEK	0064472914	326566303	So Mote It Be (Circle of Three #1)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A great new Series about Witchcraft	Kate is sick and tired of not being noticed. The guy she likes dosen't know she exists and most of her her &quot;best friends&quot; aren't really good friends. But everything about her life changes when she accidently takes out a book on Wicca while gathering books for her History project. She finds a spell inside that will make the object of her affection want her as much as she wants him. But when she casts the spell, it horribly backfires. All the guys in school (including the ones with girlfriends) are turning their attention to her. And now all the girls hate her, including her friends. In a panic she turns to two other poeple who have checked out the same book from the library, anti-social Cooper, and shy Annie. But will they help her? Or are they as afriad of magic as she is.<br />I found this book to be very entertaining. I'm soooo looking forward to reading the others. It deserves five stars. I just hope the other books are as good. I reccomend it to anyone who's a fan of Buffy or Charmed. It's a mix of the two!	2001-02-18
2099051:US	49200164	RDUHAG10TZSWM	038532748X	273355096	Night Flying	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Short and Sweet	The women in the Hansen family have always had the power to fly. Georgia has been fling for as long as she remembers and when she turns 16 she will be able to fly by herself for the first time. But everything gets screwed up when Georgia's Aunt Carmen comes to visit. The aunt that has been banished from the family. Suddenly Georgia's perception on her solo flight, her grandmother's harsh rules, and her life is changed. So when she commits an unforgivable offense, how will her family react?<br />I loved this book. It's was VERY short but still a wonderful read. Georgia is easy to relate to and reading her story just makes you wanna fly. If you like stories with just a pinch (or more) of the supernatural in them this book is for you.	2001-02-18
2101827:US	49200164	R3VNJIPA0B44Q0	0671787918	669250163	Shadowland (The Mediator)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Susannah can see dead people, and it's no picnic	Ever since Susannah was little she has had the power to see ghosts, the undead, dead people... and she dosen't like it one bit but she deals with it. So when she moves to live with her mother and her new step father and brothers in Sunny California she's not too happy to find a ghost haunting her room. But at least this one listens. The violent ghost, Heather, from her school is much different. In fact if Susannah can't control her someone just might end up dead, like her for instance.<br />Following the Sixth Sense in a now popular new trend, the mediator is a very good book. Not only is it a must for horror fans, Susannah is easy to relate to. Not only dose she have to deal with the seeing dead people syndrom she has to go through normal every-day hight school hell. I would reccomend this book, and possibly the entire series, to anyone who's a fan of teen horror novels. It''s much like Buffy crossed with the Sixth Sense. Both which happen to be favroites of mine. This is a great book and most likely a very entertaining series.	2001-02-15
2116553:US	49200164	R1GGJ7VIW18MC7	0743412478	222783976	Bad (Fearless, No. 13)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hate the cover, love the story	Gaia finally has everything she's always wanted. She has Sam. She has friends. SHe dosen't have to spend her night beating up pick pocketers (all the time that is.) She has familly. She has a way out of New York. So why is everything so complicated for her? Now that Loki's takign matters into his own hand he's connecting to Gaia quickly then everyone else has. And Gaia has no idea what the truth about him is. Will she be fooled and risk her happiness for a liar? <br />Once again Francine Pascal delievers a great new additon to the series. THough I think she really should have stuck with the old covers, or at least picked a better one, it's what's on the inside of it that counts. I can't wait until the next book. I can tell something big is going to happen.	2001-02-03
2116715:US	49200164	RKECBJLPU6443	1550748297	701197520	Watcher, The (Watcher's Quest Trilogy)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Orginal!	Emma's always knew she's been different than her escentric thinkign family. WHen it comes to appearence her fair skin and blond hair a big contrast to her darker, tanner, family. When it comes to personality she's alwasy been much more serious and organized. But when she takes a new job helping out on an elderly man's house her life takes a magical turn. Suddenly everythign she know's is a lie. Her past is a mystery and she has a casue she never thought existed.<br />I absolutely loved this book. It was orginal, magical, and hearful. Emma is someone you can totally relate to. If your a fan of books that take place when the normal clashes with the supernatural this is definatly a book for you. This is the first book I've read by this author but definatly not the last! Hope you enjoy it as much as I did.	2001-02-03
2159425:US	49200164	R23Q78TX9PV2D9	0141310200	666222409	Have a Nice Life (Start Here)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Have a Nice life....	When Nin, Zola, Sally, and Olivia meet their fairygodmother. He (yes it's a he) shows them their futures, aLl which leave much to be desired. Each one of them is shocked to see what their life will be like in 10 years. So in an attempt to fix it all they make a pack to try to change it for the better. But as they start out they reallize that chageing their lives may be a little harder than they would expect.<br />I found this book to be orginal and very funny. It was so adicting that I read it all in one night (didn't take to long though, it's kinda short). I would reccomend this to anyone who likes funny orginal books. This looks like a very interesting series!	2000-12-30
2159713:US	49200164	R1ROWTF63WQ95F	0141310219	302842357	Play (Have a Nice Life #2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Can they prevent their future?	In this book the four girls continue to try to prevent their horrid futures (with a little help from their Lenny Kravits look-a-like fairy godmother, Clearence). Zola wants revenge on Claudia for stealing Even from her. Olivia despertatly wants NOT to become a flight attendant. Min wants to get away from her boyfriend and his little dog too. And Salley wants to be unvirginized. Unfortunaly this task is far from easy.<br />Just like the first book I read this one all in one big gulp. It's just as good as the last. I can't wait till the next two come out in April. This is fastly becomming one of my favriote series!	2000-12-30
2160554:US	49200164	R33TTP72UQMW03	0618055819	859351214	Gathering Blue (Giver Quartet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lois Lowry once again enters a futuristic world	Lois Lowry once again enters a futuristic world, much like the one created in the giver but with major differences. This is a world where computers, electricity, and all other forms of technology are forgotton. People have shrunk back to the time where they had to hunt for their own food, and build there own houses. The protagonist of the story Kira, has her life at risk when her mother dies. Most people now see her to be flawed and useless and should be killed for it. SHe's forced to use her special gift in order to save her life. But what she finds out on her mental journey changes her perpective on life itself.<br />This book is thought-provoking and entertaining, especially to those who loved the giver. If you love books about survival, and society this book is for you. I would reccomend this book to anyone.	2000-12-29
2160950:US	49200164	R1KE81CMLGWUEI	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Jonas has a lot to do	When every child in the village reaches the age of 12 they are assigned a job they will attend for the rest of their life. SO when Jonas recives the job of the reciver of memory he's a little more than nervous. He's supposed to recive memories of the past so he can help instruct the leaders of the village. But as he recieves memories he sees a new society, of how things used to be. A place where color, music, pain, and war exists. He also notices the flaws ot the society that he lives in today. WHat will he do about it?<br />I found this book to be both moving and inspiring. Like other books I have read it forces you to think of what the future could be like. A more likely version than alien's taking over and having a Star wars-esque way of living. I would reccomend this book to anyone who has an open mind to orginal fiction. It's really a five star book!	2000-12-29
2168598:US	49200164	R3S5GE9PL42C9J	0440226430	902500282	Summer Sisters	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An entertaining book about friendship	Slightly shy Vix dosen't know it but Caitlin is going to change her life. When Vix is only 12 Caitlin for some reasons choses her to spend the summer with her at Martha's Vineyard. When she gets there she's shocked at Caitlin's life-style. But soon she gets used to it and returns summer after summer. Caitlin helps to introduce her to guys, true friendship, cheesy romace novels, and later Sex. But when something horrible happens on Vix's last summer at the Vineyard, something that Caitlin did, can their friendship ever be reconciled? Years after the last summer Vix's loyalty is put to the test. Is she willing to give up the man she once loved for a friend?<br />This book was reccomended to me from a friend. I was quite surprised when she did becasue this isn't the usual kind of book I read. But I was pleasently surprised. Summer sisters is a funny, touching, and entertaining book about frienship, love, sex and growing up. Though it's aimed primarily towards adults highschoolers will also love to read about Vix's growing up on the Vineyard and at collage. I would reccomend this book to all my friends.	2000-12-21
2192930:US	49200164	R33JSD84A7SY56	0440410614	865407561	Alien Secrets	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A good Suspenseful read for all ages	When Puck is expelled from her school on Earth for bad grades, she sent to live with her parents who are studying alien life on Aurora. She know's they'll be dissapointed in her so she's not in the best of moods when she boards the Cats Cradle (the ship) until she meets Hush. Hush is an alien from the planet Shoo. WHen she makes friends with him she learns about the Soo, something very precious to Hush's people that he lost. If she can help Hush find the Soo he won;t return home in shame. But she's not the only one that wants it. And if she get's in it's way she might not make it off the ship alive.<br />In my opinion this was a great book. SOmething that anyone can enjoy. I myself usually stick to stories about just the supernatural, and if it was by anyone else than Annette Curtis Klause I would have never picked it up. Now I'm glad I did! I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did!	2000-11-30
2203648:US	49200164	RA1LAI9QNOEOY	0380773155	543226706	It Happened to Nancy: By an Anonymous Teenager, A True Story from Her Diary	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Nancy's Review of It happened to Nancy	Nancy's only 14 when she meets what she thinks to be the man of her dreams. He's 18, charming, smart, cute, and treats her with respect... or so she thinks. When she's attacked and raped on a date her life falls apart. She's affected with HIV, AIDS. At first she dosen't know how to deal but soon, with the help of her family and friends she learns to deal with it as best she can. How will she reacts as more and more problems develope?<br />It happend to Nancy is a beautiful true story about AIDS and learning to look on the brighter side of things. I read it for school and was happily surprised on how good it was. I'll be sure to read more diaries like this edited by Dr. B and I reccomend that others do to.	2000-11-20
2205767:US	49200164	R148G2DIX3C9XU	0786806540	385962629	Into the Cold Fire (Daughters of the Moon #2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Serena can read minds, but can she prevent the future?	Serena is a goddess of the moon with the power to read others minds. Though she likes her powers it turns out to be a mixed blessing. SHe never can get close to a guy becasue she always knows what he's thinking. SO when she meet's Zahi (who's thought are all in other languages) she's happy to find a guy who she could possibly be with. But she has more important things to worry about. Jimena has a vision of her becoming a follower by standing on cold fire. Serena panicks becasue none of Jimena's visions have ever been prevented. Can she prevent the future, or is she doomed to become on of them?<br />If you liked Goddes of the Night (Vanessa's story) you'll just LOVE this one. Serena's story is even better than the last!	2000-11-19
2215515:US	49200164	RQJ4MKLPC2UGR	0689815433	690160048	Don't You Dare Read This, Mrs. Dunphrey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A good quick read	Though this book is small, it's in no way non-entertaining or childish. It tells an amazing story about a girl named Tish. WHen her English teacher assignes her to write a journal, she has no idea how much will happen to her this year, or how much she'll write down of it. But Mrs. Dumphery won't read anything that says &quot;Don't read&quot; on the top. Unfortunatly what Tish really needs is someone to talk about abusive father, her emotionaly distraught mother, and dead grandmother, and her sensitive seven-year-old brother. If you've enjoyed entertaining books such as HATE YOU, and A DOOR NEAR HERE, you'll love this one.	2000-11-10
2219169:US	49200164	RV05C5VKWCZUC	0060283149	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Is there a shred of hope for the three orphans?	In this book things go down hill from the first few pages. The three clever orphans go to live with there Aunt only to find out that she dosen't understand children at all. She's afraid of virtually anything and is obessed with grammer. When Count Oalf shows up how will she react? I love this book, and in my opinion it's one of the best in the series. If you love funny, witty tales that don't nessicarily have the happiest ending in the world this book is for you. Lemony Snicket once again delivers a great book. I reccomend it to any fans of the series.	2000-11-06
2220853:US	49200164	R3VSX55F6BG54Y	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Can the poor orphans have happiness?	This continues the entertaining witty story of the four Baudelaire orphans. In this book the three children are sent off to live with there Uncle Monty. When they first meet him they're surprised to find that he's a plesent person. Do Sunny Violet and Klaus have a chance of happiness? Will they escape the evil clutches of Count Oalf?<br />Don't count on it.<br />This book was just as entertaining, funny, and enjoyable as the first one in the series. I recomend reading this book to anyone who's a fan of the series. I can't wait to read the next one (I'm part-way through it already)	2000-11-05
2228368:US	49200164	R33O6DZ81QC582	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The entertaining tale of three very unlucky children	Violet, Sunny, and Klause are three very unlucky children. They are clever, have &quot;pleasent facial features,&quot; and are all very talented in there own thing (inventing, reading, chewing) but there life is struck by disaster when there parents die. Sent to live with the evil Cout Olaf, they find that all he really wants out of them is the forture Violet has inherited for when she comes of age. He cooks up a devious plan and will do anything to get it out of them, anything.<br />I think that this was a very clevery written book. Though it is impossible to figure out what time period it is of what country it takes place I found it to be very entertaining. It's not the happiest book in the world (filled with dark humor) but it's something I would reccomend to all fans (past and present) of Roald Dahl. I hope you enjoy it!	2000-10-29
2228951:US	49200164	R1J5LSK04MMJQ6	0439202701	619049409	Secrets From Beyond: Survivor #1 (Sixth Sense)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great for all lovers of the movie!	Have you ever wondered what happened to Cole (a 12-year-old with the power to see dead people) after the movie ended. Well here's your answer. In this book Cole has tried to adjust to his &quot;gift&quot; but when a giant airplane crashes in front of his own eyes on a class feild trip to the museam, dead people are everywhere. There closeing in on him, all confused. all wanting help, all not knowing there dead. Excpet for one ghost named Marissa, but she wants him to do a tough task that could help her move on. Though it's aimed for a younger group I reccomend this for child and teen fans alike. If you loved the movie you'll definatly wanna pick this one up!	2000-10-29
2232574:US	49200164	R3SOENRP4G7RUP	0440210917	59815281	Fade (Laurel Leaf Books)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not as good as the last Cormier book I read	I've already read The Chocolate War, and it's sequel and I loved them both. So I automaticallly had high expectations for this book (which was assigned for school). It's starts out great but as I read more and more it started to get choppy and lose quality. Infact the whole Ozzie chapter seems to be rushed threw, like he was in a rush to finish the darn thing. My favroite charecters (Susan and Rosanne) don't even have big parts. But just in case your still intrested here's a summary of the book.<br />Paul has the ability to fade away into nothing, become invisable. In every generation of the Moreaux family there is someone born with the fade and this time it's Paul. But the fun of the Fade is soon spoiled when Paul sees things he shouldn't see, and dose things he shouldn't do. How will the next generation deal with the fade?	2000-10-26
2246965:US	49200164	R307YNGTBUI33	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Amazing Work of fiction!	Pullman once again takes us to his magical universe with Lyra, Will, Mrs. Coutler, Lord Asriel, and Dr. Mary. In the beginning of this book Lyra is traped under a powerful sleeping spell my no one else than her own mother. And Will (my favriote charecter), with the help of two guardian Angels must find her before the people of the Church do. This book answers all the questions about dust, and the subtle knife. <br />With charecter's you can't help fall in love with and others you never know when to trust or not ::coughMrs.Coutlercough::, The Amber Spyglass is an amazing book and well worth the 2 year wait! It's now one of my favriote books on my shelves. If you've read the first two books reading this is a must!	2000-10-14
2248936:US	49200164	R3N6LP0YQMAGSL	0060241497	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A beautiful retelling of a fairy tale	Beauty (real name Honour)with her big feet and hands, is not as beautiful as her two elder sisters. But what she lacks in Beauty she makes up in courage and intelligence. When her father wanders into the magical forests that surrounds her house, and plucks a rose from a forbidden garden, he is faced with a hard choice. Give up one of his daughter to live with a beat or die. Beauty, unwilling to see her father die goes to live with the beast. But things are different in the castle, almost magical and sometimes frighteneing. What shall she do? <br />In my opinion this story was a wonderful retelling of a story that I used to love when I was just a kid. I reccomend this book to anyone who loves fairy tales.	2000-10-12
2255803:US	49200164	R2GWNAN98YL0SI	0689801734	866305122	The Boggart	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Old Magic Creates New Mayhem!	It's not realyl Emily and Jessups fault that they brought a powerful Boggart, a Scottish spirit that uses trickery, into Canada. When they find out that there family is the heir of a Scottish Castle they are only too happy to go visit. After hearing that they can't keep the Galic Paradise they take a few books, some furniture... and a Boggart home with them. The Boggart is scared at first but soon becomes amazed with the tecnology of the west. But his tricks are not as Welcome here as they where back in Scottland.<br />If you like tales of Old Magic, and new technology you'll llove this book. I'll be sure to read another work of Susan Cooper!	2000-10-07
2289179:US	49200164	R39BSXU1HJ775C	0141309199	242480756	Slam	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great book! Really it is!	In my whole life I've never brought a book on Poetry, but when I saw this in Waldenbooks and looked over the inside of it and read a few poems and I  was entertained. So I bought it and I wasn't dissapointed. All the poems  are wonderful and are in a vast variety, the quotes and lyrics from singers  or rappers are inspirational. To tell the truth yes I do write poetry  myself but none of it has ever been this good. I loved the wole layout of  the book with the pictures and fonts! If alloy ever comes out with another  poetry book I'll definatly buy it!	2000-09-09
2295758:US	49200164	R316MHK6W8KYVS	0399235906	614011267	Lord Brocktree: A Tale from Redwall	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Better than the last!	Over a week ago I was shocked to find Lord Brocktree sitting on my doorstep. For some strange reason it had been shipped to me a week early! I  was estatic! And when I picked it up I wasn't dissapointed. It tells the  story of the greatest Badger Lord. He ventures from him home to get to  Salamandastron, to portect his father and the moutain from the evil wildcat  Ungatt Trunn and his huge army. But they are vastly out numbured. What will  the Badger Lord do? <br />As I said before I think this book was even better  than the last one. The descriptions where almost real, the hares  (especially Dotti and Fleetscutt) where soo funny, and the action was  incredible. If you like Redwall and want to read a good badger story read  this!	2000-09-04
2296542:US	49200164	R3TXIANXS6JDOP	0440227623	110567445	Hate You	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A great story for Teens	Alice is a bitter girl that hates the world. She has a voice that's scratchy from her fathers past abuse, a sweet boyfriend, and a mother  that's a bit crazy. Her life isn''t perfect but it's stable. So what will  happen when everything comes crashing down? I liked this book. It was a  good story about Teens for teens that touched on an important issue today,  abuse. If you liked stories that are real, funny, and don't have any bull  this this a book for you. Alice's Lyrics are touching and raw. I'd  reccomend this book to a lot of people!	2000-09-04
2299967:US	49200164	R747OZJP4L0UB	039923490X	777062090	The Legend of Luke: A Tale from Redwall (Redwall, Book 12)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An amazing read!	If there's one thing we've known very little about when it comes to the great Martin the Warrior it's what where his parents like. This book  answers that question. In this story Martin sets out to find out what  really happened to his father, so he leaves the abbey with a small band of  fighters as it's being built. When he reaches his birth place he's  surprised to find friends of his father still alive. THey tell him the  story.<br />I was always curious about who Luke really was so I was happy to  see this book when it hit the shelves. If you like Redwall and Martin's  tales (pun not intended) read this one!	2000-08-31
2300178:US	49200164	R2U1XNB9PTHLJW	0380719223	924818722	Mariel of Redwall (Redwall, Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of my favorite Editions!	There was never a firecer mousemaid than the great Mariel the warrior. In the begining of the story Mariel is washed up on ther shores near Redwall  Abbey with no memory of herself or her past. Useing her wit and strength  she manages to make her way towards Redwall Abbey. But meanwhile her father  has been taken captive by pirates and she is the only one that can rescue  him. Can she get back her memory in time and find her father before its to  late? Is she really in love with Dardin?... Well okay we never learn that  but a girl can dream can't she.<br />This is one of my favriote Redwall books.  Like the last three its a tale you'd want to read over and over again. If  you like Redwall you'll like this book just as much!	2000-08-31
2301021:US	49200164	R1H51LVC2POVR8	0441005764	368646193	Mossflower (Prequel to Redwall)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Story of Martin the Warrior	Martin the Warrior, the legndary warrior of Redwall Abbey. To everyone in Redwall he's not only the founder of the Abbey but a hero to everyone. This  is just one of his stories. In this story Martin arrives in Mossflower  woods, seasons before the Abbey was built, only to find it rulled by wild  cats. He dosen't know much about it but his fighting spirit gets him into  trouble. The Kings daughter breaks his sword and thrown him in the dungon  with Gonff the Prince of Mousetheives. Will he break out? ANd when he dose  what will happen to him? Will he ever get vengence upon the terrible  Tsarmina for breaking his sword.<br />Mossflower is one of the earlier pieces  of Brian Jacques work, and right up there with the best. If you loved the  heroic acts of Redwall you'll love Martin. Now if I could just translate  the molespeach everything would be perfect!	2000-08-31
2324858:US	49200164	RSCVHSJSH2DAD	0152012419	125875331	High Wizardry (Wizardry Series)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A step down from the others but still entertaining	Dairine Callahan is Nita (the wizard's) younger sister. When she sees how much fun Nita is having with the magic she naturally wants to join in too.  But when her new wizards manuel turns out to be a computer and her powers  are nearly limtless she is sent on an ordeal that will take her to diffrent  worlds, diffrent galexys and give her power that she never dreamed of. Nita  and Kit come to the rescue but unfortunatly the lone Power is not far  behind them. ANd he realizes how powerful that Nita is too. He dosen't like  it one bit. <br />Though it's a step down from Deep Wizardry and so you want  to be a wizard it's still ewntertaining. If you love the world of fantasy  magic and wizardry this book is for you!	2000-08-13
2324945:US	49200164	R1ON78K43SG5TV	0671034928	138309114	Body Bags: A Body of Evidence Thriller #1	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Welcome to Jenna's world	Jenna comes to collage looking for a good education and to spend some time with her father who she rarely sees. She wants to become a doctor but she's  afried of losign tha patient. Her father makes a surprising suggestion, he  suggests that she should operate on patients that are already dead. Out of  pure curiosity she tries it out and likes it. But there's one problem,  people are dying from sometimg that makes them go crazy. When the victums  come in Jenna realizes it might be murder. This is a suspenceful orginal  mystery that will have you on the egde of your seat. If you like mystery  and can stand a little blood you'll LOVE this one!	2000-08-13
2327830:US	49200164	RCNXJR566OA6O	0671039520	995714195	Trust (Fearless, No. 11)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Who Can Gaia trust?	Gaia's never been that lucky in love and friendship but she's as angry as can be when she finds out about Ella and Sam, her worst enemy and her  secret crush. But when Ella nearly beats her senseless she only has one  person to turn to. Her Uncle Oliver, but she dosen't know that Olvier is  realyl Loki, the person who was after her the whole time. He's offering her  a very tempting offer, leave everyone who's betrayed her in New York and  come live with him. SHe dosen't know what to do, and who really to trust.  If you love Fearless you'll read this one in one sitting! I can't wait  until the next one comes out!	2000-08-11
2328850:US	49200164	R1SS0CNLGHA7D6	0671014773	130927925	Night World: Witchlight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Looking for the Witch Child	Keller is a shapeshifter that works on one of the most reliable teams for  Cirlce Daybreak. When her team is assigned to finding the 3rd Wild Power,  who also happens to be the legenday witch child, she shocked to see that  she's not what she expected and wants nothing to do with them. Her life  giets poured into even more turmoil when she falls for the Witch Child's  soulmate. &quot;Love is for the Weak,&quot; she always tells her self, but  she's finding herself drawn to him each day. This book was a great book and  a good improvement to the Night World Series. I wish Strange Fate would  come out sometimes soon.	2000-08-10
2329740:US	49200164	R3GXY52TUWBJJO	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A real mystery	When Sally Lockheart's father mysterious dies she wants to know how. And  when someone gives her a cryptic message in scribbly hand writing, she sees  a phrase that will change her life as she knows it. Beware The Seven  Blessings. And when she asks a man who worked for her father about it he  drops dead. She's immeaditally thrown into a strange world where she's  hunted like a dog. She's meets people that will affect her life like no  other, a photographer, an opium smoker, a child who's never alowed to see  daylight and a boy named Jim. All of them who who's lives are put in danger  by the enemy.<br />This was a great book for mystery fans. I'm definatly  reading the next two!	2000-08-10
2332005:US	49200164	R2K8M1C6I4PSH3	0671039431	27589753	Run (Fearless, No. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Where's Sam	What dose Gaia do when the people that where out to get her kidnap Sam,  her secret crush. She has to compleat certin tasks, she dosen't know why  but each one is harder and harder to do than the last. SHe dosen't know  weather she'll ever see Sam again but she knows that not trying will get  him killed. I think this book was great! Just as good as the last! Possibly  even better. It just makes you wish that Sam and Gaia would actually hook  up sometime soon.	2000-08-08
2334813:US	49200164	R1SH3CV523ING	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Ella's Enchanting!	Ella's not like normal girls, and it's not becasue she's a strong feisty girl. It's becasue she was cursed with the &quot;gift&quot; of obedience.  What ever she is asked to do, she must do it. And when she's sent to live  with her evil stepmother and stepsisters they quite enjoy her gift. This  book is filled with mystery, magic and handsom princess. And it's a good  example of a well- written up-graded fairy tale. If yo llike fantasy I  think you should read this book. Mother Goose would be proud.	2000-08-06
2336241:US	49200164	R11GZS3GC0VJJV	0590110039	605685082	Perloo The Bold	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Perloo the bold?	Perloo is a timid hare that would rather read a good book than join the rest of the Montmers. But when he's given a message from Lubraca that the  granter wants to see him in the middle of a snow storm, he isn't so egar to  go. But when he dose he learns that the granter is dying, and a new grater  must be made. And for some reason the current leder wants Perloo to take  over? Avi once again shows up the world of talking animals in a book that  satifies the fans of Poppy, and any book in the Dimwood forest series. It  reminds me a lot of the Redwall series. SO if you like talking animals  you'll go for this book!	2000-08-05
2336615:US	49200164	R3E2MA5NWXCRFR	0440227518	65562579	The Killer's Cousin	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Such Suspence!	I loved this book. It tells the story of David Yaffe, after being auquitted of murdering his girlfriend he moves to his aunt and uncle's  house. He immeaditally finds out that his aunt dosen't have a liking for  him, and his cousin is very intrested in what it felt like to kill someone.  This book is full of suspence and mystery. There's a twist in there that I  surely did not see coming up! If you like to read, read this book, it's  very good!	2000-08-05
2336708:US	49200164	R1A97NZFTVH82F	0152012397	681141436	So You Want to Be a Wizard	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nita and Kit have quite a lot to do!	Nita's a smart bookworm that constantly gets in trouble with the school bully's becasue she refuses to fight back. But when she hides out in the school library one day she finds a strange book called &quot;So you Want to  Be a Wizard.&quot; At first she thinks of it as a joke, she has no idea  that it will change her life! So when she reads about it she's  immeaditallly thrown into her ordeal with Kit, another new wizard. If she  succedes she will save the world as we know it, but if she fails... Let's  just hope that failing is not an option.<br />This was a good start to Duane's  wizardry. I can actually relate to Nita! If you loved reading the tales of  Harry Potter you'll love this book!	2000-08-05
2336886:US	49200164	R2H5KMYCT1FR3R	0375802118	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lyra returns! And finds a companion	The last time we saw Lyra Silvertongue she had stepped into another world after seeing Lord Asriel murder her old friend. She left everything she  knew behind and traveled into the unknown. But when she meets Will, who  doesn't belong in this new world either. He belongs in a world where people  are different, and no one has a daemon.<br />&quot;Who is He?&quot; She asks  her golden compass.<br />&quot;He is a murderer.&quot;<br />The two travel into  Will's world, a place where Lyra can find out more about Dust, and where  Will can find out more about his father. The Subtle knife is an amazing  sequel. It's almost as good as the original book itself. Our favorite  characters return and set up for a battle between good and evil. But which  side is good? Which is evil? If you liked the Golden Compass you'll be sure  to add this one to your collection.	2000-08-05
2337261:US	49200164	R1OJGDMFMOLDCG	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	27	34	N	N	If you don't read this book, you're crazy!	I remember almost 5 years ago when I caught sight of a friend of mine reading a book called Redwall. I looked at it suspecially, why would my freind want to read a book with a mouse on the cover? (In the past the only  fantasy I had been showed was the Narnia stories) I asked her and she told  me it was one of the best books she had ever read. So of course I was  intrigued and bought it myself. I was immeaditally opened up to a whole new  world where animals could talk and laugh and cry and fight. <br />This book  tells the story of Redwall. It's a peacful Abbey ever since the brave  Martin the Warrior banished away all the vermin. But when the legendary  Cluny the Scourge acctacks, it's up to the mice to fight against them. And  then there's Matthias, a strong willed mouse. Will he be the mouse to lead  them to victory? And can he solve Martin the Warrior's riddle in time? Read  the book I guarentee that you will enjoy it.	2000-08-05
2337308:US	49200164	R91TVMBHFD1QD	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sabriel, an orginal book	Set in modern times, this book tells the story of Sabriel's life journey to find her father. But to do so she has to travel back into the old kingdom, where you're only guard is charter Magic and necromancy. But the  problem is, whoever has her father, dosen't want him to be found. Sabriel  is risking her life daily, and everything changes when she meets Moggart, a  strange cat that can speek. And after a failed flight on a paperwing she  finds a statue of a man, that looks all too real. I loved this book and if  you like ther supernatural you'll definatly like this one!	2000-08-05
2337514:US	49200164	R332F4WHZIHYOJ	0152012079	869663317	A Wizard Abroad (Young Wizards, Book 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great ending to a great Series!	Nita dosen't really like it when she's forced to leave her wizard partner and take a trip to Ireland, but when she gets there inbetween tea time she  discovers that something major is going on in the Wizarding world. And it's  all starting on the country of Ireland. Nita knows she has to stop it, but  what about Kit and her sister? Can she do it without them?<br />Being Irish  myself I was suspecious at first on how Ireland would be portrayed (you  know the stero-typical pub-filled country with drunk people everywhere). I  was surprised to see that it was shown in a good light, it really shone  light on some of the old legends also. I was very pleased when I read it.  It's a good book. So if you have read the rest of the series read this one!	2000-08-04
2337565:US	49200164	RRD9VY7RV76X2	0671039415	582844444	Fearless #1	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What's it like to be Fearless?	Gaia's not like other people. It's not the fact that's she's bitter, nor  the fact that she refuses to let people in, it's not even the fact that she  has a terrible past. It's the fact that she was born without the fear gene.  And no matter what she can't fear anything. So when she goes to New York  City, things get complicated. Weather it's muggers or the wheelchair bound  Ed that could possibly be Gaia's only friend. And of course she finds a  crush, but unofrtunatly he's not as single as she would like him to be.  This is a great beginning to a great series! It's a big improvement to  Pascal's usual books. I can't stand her Sweet Valley books anymore! It's  like reading about Buffy, minus the vampires and the demons. Read this  series!	2000-08-04
2337952:US	49200164	R361NTPVVYG43F	0671039482	995152510	Heat (Fearless #8)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Just when Gaia's life starts to get good...	With Mary putting down her drugs, Gaia finally has a friend she can trust beside Ed. So when things start looking up for Gaia you know somethings going to happen to have it all crash back down again. This book is another  great addition to the series, though it's not as good as the last, it's a  great read. I just gotta warn fans of the series, the ending is very sad.  But it's still a good one.	2000-08-04
2338241:US	49200164	R2NR35COARDZXM	0808586998	544398776	Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magical and Orginal!	Buttercup loves Wesley, but when Wesley is killed by the Dread Pirate  Roberts she swears she will never love again. But when she is ordered to  marry the Prince there's little she can do about it then accept. Life gets  more complicated when she's kidnapped by three men, a spaniard, a turck,  and a Sicillian. And a mysterious man in black is following them.<br />This is  an amazing book! It's a classic fairy tale with humorous sid notes from the  author. The spanish fenser Ignio, has got to be my favriote charecter. This  book is even better than the movie (yes it's possible). SO if you loved the  movie read this book. It's just a good fairy tale and a good story in  general.	2000-08-04
2338242:US	49200164	R1KPOZ0N77CJA7	0060277491	249090897	Violet & Claire	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A good beach read.	I thought that this was a pretty decent book. Violet wants to create a movie. One that will show everyone what she's made of. But since that  hasn't happened yet she spends her days as a student at her locl high  school, being avoided by pretty much everyone. But when she meets Claire  she is immeaditally hit with inspiration for a movie, and Claire will star  in it. She just has no idea how complicated her life will get with this  descision!<br />I liked this book. The charecters where scetched well but the  plot sort of sagged in the end. I'm not a fan of Block's other work but I  do reccomend this one if you want a good read. I think it deserves 3 and a  half stars insted.	2000-08-04
2338997:US	49200164	R65LO6HJAMVZ9	0671039474	750856073	Rebel (Fearless, No. 7)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's just a game of truth or dare....	When the Fearless Trio (Ed Gaia and Mary) decide to play a game of truth or dare, Mary and Ed realizes that if they can get Gaia to say  &quot;truth&quot; they might be able to find out about Gaia's past. But  Gaia will do any dare they put up to her, and it's starting to get  dangerous. I think that this book is very good and has a very emotional  ending. It's a good book. If you like the fearless series you will love  this book!	2000-08-04
2344903:US	49200164	R3IECZEY6EH1O1	0893756180	633423579	The adventure of the speckled band (Adventures of Sherlock Holmes)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A good mystery	I read the Adventure of the Speckled Band in 8th grade in English class, and I was plesently surprised to see how good it is. The stories I usually read in class are boring but this was very intresting. Holems is once again  faced with a confusing mystery. This time a young woman's sister has just  been murdered, and Holmes and Watson must find the killer before he kills  again. This was the first Sherlock Holmes mystery I've ever read but it  most definatly won't be my last!	2000-07-31
2345247:US	49200164	R2XMO99LSQ9MWN	0671026291	922676632	The Xander Years, Volume 1	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Xander's satire slays me!	Just like on the TV show Xander delivers scarcasm and humor that only he can do. He tells 3 tales of his strange supernatural romance (Teachers Pet, Inca Mummy Girl, and Bewitched Bothered and Bewildered)and proves that  Buffy isn't the only one with a twisted life. I liked reading about Xander  becasue he's pretty much the typical male, except a whole lot wittier, and  the occasional vampire slaying. I reccomend this to any Buffy the Vampire  Slayer and/or Xander fan!	2000-07-31
2346732:US	49200164	R3NYGET5UPSHXY	0440228158	656106154	Ever After: A Cinderella Story (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A novel that Dosen't put the movie to shame	Usually when I read books based on movies I am deeply dissapointed becasue A. they usually leave out important scenes, and/or B They treat the book like a screen play and barely put in any description. This book did not to  that. I found Danielle's Cinderella like Story to be just as good in a  novel as in a movie. If you liked the movie and you love fairy tales with  strong Female charecters then you should definatly read this book!	2000-07-30
2349215:US	49200164	R2XFLNS5VUYAVK	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great story!	Hazel lives a good life of an average buck rabbit in his warren. But everything is changed when he younger brother Fiver (who is known as sort of a seer) has a vision of the field covered with blood. Unable to convince  the cheif rabbit to move the entire warren Hazel, and his followers,  seperate from the warren and embark on a life changeing journey. What will  happen to them when they reach Watership Down? <br />I heard of the book on a  back of one of my favriote series (Redwall) and read it a couple summers  ago. It's now one of my favriote books. It's wondefully written and  deserves much more than 5 stars! Everyone should read it!	2000-07-28
2349392:US	49200164	RTGL4OQ22DLB3	0671551353	366084478	SPELLBINDER: NIGHTWORLD	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Spellbinder is Spellbinding!	Unlike the first two books in the series Spellbinder switches it's romantic connections to witches insted of vampires. Blaise uses human men as toys till they go crazy, and when she sets her eyes on Eric, Thea's  soulmate Thea will do anything to protect him, even if it means breaking  the laws of the Night World. A great addition to the series that will have  you excited to read more. Though it's a step down from Daughters of  Darkness it stands well on it's own.	2000-07-28
2350013:US	49200164	R2N6C6W59ALYI	0679833692	812471343	Juniper	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the best books I've ever read!	Juniper is used to her spoiled life as a Princess in her land but she gives it all up to work with Euny, a powerful doran that works her hard and breaks her into Euny's hard solitary life. I think this books is a maigcal tale of survival and sorcery. I reccomend this book to anyone who loves  magic. And loves midevil tales.	2000-07-27
2350315:US	49200164	R1L5PDVMHXG38C	0671551388	597048906	Night World: Soulmate	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Soulmates....	Thierry is one of the wealthest and oldest vampires left in the Night World. Hannah is an old soul that knows something is going wrong. She's writing notes in her own handwritting but dosen't know how and why. When  she meets Thierry she sees her soulmate, and possibly her own death, again.  I think this book is an intresting addition to the Night World Series. Not  the bes though, I think the story line was not one of LJ's best. But it was  great to see Ash again, he's my favriote charecter in the whole series!	2000-07-27
2350317:US	49200164	R2B748EAPRDTP6	038532720X	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Impressive writing but something was lacking...	I think that the writing was impressive, especailly on a 16-year-old. The story was pretty good but something was missing. I liked seeing Aubery return and lots of charecter devolpement in his direction. But I found a  few things strange about it. It almost felt like the author was putting  herself in the lead charecter spot. And with the whole Aubery story-lline  was like reading &quot;Daughters of Darkness.&quot; He reminds me way to  much of Ash, an evil charecter in the first book but he has a change of  heart in the second when he meets his soulmate. I'm looking forward to her  next book, I hope her writing will mature along with her age.	2000-07-27
2350495:US	49200164	R8HMKP6GMW4Y9	0440227615	585267893	A Door Near Here	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A great story	A door near here is a great story about a girl that must take control of her family when her mother is bed-ridden from drunkness. It's a uplifting story that will make you think &quot;what would happen if I was in her  shoes.&quot; Being a Cahtloic school veteren myself I can actually relate  to some of the scenes. I recommend this book to any teen who's going  through tough times.	2000-07-27
2350777:US	49200164	R3JUPC4SJQCYSB	0671551345	213505529	Night World: Daughters Of Darkness	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ash rules!	I thought this story was amazing, even better than the first. I was happy to see Ash return and a lot of charecter development happen to him. He's now one of my favriote charecters. And Mary-Lynette is definatly a strong  Female charecter! If your looking for some twisted Night World romance this  is the book to read. It's full of vampires and magic unlike ever before!	2000-07-27
2351025:US	49200164	R83L75UOO5NUK	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excelent sequel!	Harry's second year at Hogworts proves to be just as exciting as the first. After an intresting summer at the Dursley's and a strange warning from a house elf he returns to his school. The Chamber of secrets has opened at Hogworts  by the heir of Slytherin and who dose everyone suspect  to be the next big evil? Harry Potter himself?<br />This book provides a lot  of charecter developement with our favriote main charecters and more magic  for Harry Potter and his friends. It's just as good as the first book in  the series. Everyone that can read should read it!	2000-07-27
2351202:US	49200164	R1DZ09ZYVH3ECN	0671026283	851998548	Visitors (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not as I expected...	I give it 2 stars becasue once the charecters where portrayed as well as they are on the small screne. The problem was the story line wasn't strong as I would like it to be and it was quite borning in my opinion. Thank gooddness it was short. I don't reccomend reading this book unless you are  a Buffy Obsessive.	2000-07-27
2351284:US	49200164	R3MMRDE7UQ11E0	0671014757	743074136	Huntress Night World 7	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If she tastes blood... she's his	The story of the Wild Powers is a great new story line to the series. And I think that Jez is a great charecter. She's not like most vampires, and she's not like most humans. She's half and half. And when she hears about  the Wild Powers she has to return to her old gang... and Morgead. If you  like the Night World Series and LJ Smith's work you'll love this one!	2000-07-27
2351324:US	49200164	R2QKZMDJRQ203N	0671551337	820990493	Secret Vampire (Night World, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great Beginning to a great series	I thought this book was a great beginning to a great series. Poppy is dying, and she most likely won't get well. There is only one way to cure her illness, and James is one of the few to do it. But if he dose he will  be breaking one of the rules of the Night World. But by falling in love  with her, he has broken an even stronger one. I reccomend this book to fans  of Gothic romances. You can't help fall in love with Poppy, James and  Phillip.	2000-07-27
2351645:US	49200164	R23GJR6JXOMEGK	0671551361	170540346	DARK ANGEL NIGHT WORLD 4	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My favriote in the series (so far)	I really enjoyed this book and Gillian's story mostly because she's someone I can relate to. Like Gillian I was never popular, and very shy. And in this story, Gillian is given the chance to have the popularity that  she's always wanted, the guy she's always wanted, and something almsot  magical. I loved this book and reccomend it to anyone who loves the Night  World Series.	2000-07-27
2351646:US	49200164	R243CENIKYV6E5	0689829574	719730821	On Fortune's Wheel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just as good as Jackaroo and then some!	This book is even more exiciting than Jackaroo! It tells the story of (once again) the inkeepers daughter. But when Brile finds a mysterious man trying to take one of her ships she attacks him but dosen't manage to stop  him. And she is immeaditally thrown into a new life where everything has  changed, and all she knows may be the only thing that will keep her alive.  What's in store for the inkeepers daughter? I reccomend this book highly.	2000-07-27
2351707:US	49200164	R2F430BD3TJ3A2	0671041177	788917768	Immortal: Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An impressive addition to the Buffy Series	I loved this book! The story lines where exciting! Veronique is an anchient vampire that cannot die, but be passed on from body to body, and when she comes to Sunnydale the scooby gang finds her to be more than one  slayer can handle. But that's not Buffy's main concern. Joyce Summers, her  mother is very sick and it could be life threating. I find this book to be  a very good read, Holder and Golden once again provide a exciting storyline  with convinceing charecterization. I'm sad to see they won't be doing any  more colloborations after this. But I look forward to their individual  books.	2000-07-27
2352449:US	49200164	R3NNSVALRZZUVK	0671039490	911671911	Blood (Fearless #9)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great responce to the turning point in the Fearless Series	While Heat was definatly the turning point in the series, number 9 shows an intresting responce. Gaia showing a very Gaia responce to Mary's death, blaming herself and going out to get revenge. And Ed once again plays the  role of the patient friend trying to bring Gaia back to sanity. The ending  is great and any fan of the fearless series will definatly read this one!	2000-07-26
2352748:US	49200164	R2XNW7TKCKCV9H	0440944597	638391927	The Chocolate War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good bud Disturbing	I found this book to be very good bu also kind of disturbing. Unlike most people, I have not considered Jerry's story to be a &quot;realistic&quot; story but more of a &quot;What if&quot; story. What IF there where a group  that rulled your school and could make you do anything like the vigils did.  What if teachers like the cruel Brother had everyone in school under his  little thumb. I find that very disturbing indeed. But this was a good  story, well written and it get's you thinking. What of all of this acutally  did happen?	2000-07-26
2352920:US	49200164	R3GN4XGNLMNB0A	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter Rekindles the Magic in Fantasy Stories!	Harry Potter isn't handsome, unnaturally brave, or popular but still he fills the role of the hero! Harry dosen't like his life with they Dursleys but when he finds out the truth about himself, that he is actually a wizard, and his parents where killed by Voldemort, the most powerful dark  wizard ever. His whole life suddenly changes. He goes to Hogworts, a  magical school where he is automatically a hero and everyone knows his name  as the one who defeted you-know-who!<br />I recommend this book to absoultly  everyone. It's so incredibly well written that even if you aren't to  intrested in the fantasy genre you will love this book! I guarentee it! JK  Rowling follows the tradition or C.S. Lewis and Tolkin proudly. This book  and series will certinly be a remembered book for generations to come!	2000-07-26
2352953:US	49200164	R2HS7WZUDYAK9X	0671039512	658055933	Liar (Fearless, No. 10)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pascal dose it again!	Trust forms yet another bump in the road for Gaia, her best friend and her worst enimies most likely becomming more than just friends. It kinda makes you feel bad for Gaia. Just when things are starting to act normal she  finds out all these things that shake her from her own reality. This book  gives a major plot change in the series and is pulling towards a thrilling  conclusion in the 12th book.	2000-07-26
2366486:US	49200164	R3DWDHXFXBIWQU	0590485954	89829782	Jackaroo (Point Signature)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Slow in the beginning but great ending!	I loved this book! It's the story of Gwyn a girl who dosen't wish to marry like the other girls. One day when she has to guide a Lord and a Lording throught the country side she gets trapped in a tiny cabin with the  Lording. The Lording teaches her to read and write, but nothing to compaire  to what happens when she finds a costume that resembles the outfit of  Jackaroo, the legendary outlaw who serves the poor and fights injustices.  Sort of like a cross between Robin Hood and Zorro.	2000-07-17
2366746:US	49200164	R3IM3C7F7F41ZI	0064471047	915528414	The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A classic!	I remember back when I was in second grade and I read The Loin The Witch and the Wardrobe. I wasn't really used to something this long but I immeaditally fell in love with it. The Story of Lucy, Peter, Susan and  Edmund is an imaginative adventure of Narnia. WHen Lucy finds a door into  another world called Narnia she befriends a faun and enjoys herself very  much. But no one will believe her! ANd when she convinces then to come they  find them self traveling to find Aslan, the great lion, and running from  the white witch's powerful wrath. I'm 15 now and going to be a softmore and  I still love this book. Everyone should read it.	2000-07-17
2380798:US	49200164	R26ENJRLTU0TCI	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	WOW!	All I can say is WOW! This book is better than the last three put together! Harry has quite a frightening experience when he dreams of Lord Voldermort and Wormtail murdering a man and wakes up with a blinding pain  in his scar on his forehead.<br />His summer gets more complicated when he  goes to the Quidditch World cup and something very unexpected and Erie  happens. And when he gets to Hogworts he's horrified to find out that  there's NO QUIDDITCH but instead something just as exciting. Who knows what  will happen to Harry in this book. With a new Defense against the Dark  teacher,  a nosy reporter and Padfoot on the sidelines. Harry defiantly has  his hands full this year! And Shhh someone dies and it's not who you would  expect and at the end.<br />And the thing that we all fear will come to  pass... Dum dum Dah!	2000-07-09
