588:US	49263512	R10HXEISRHYFHL	0192158988	673866422	Columbus	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A looney expands the world	To my knowledge, this is the most rigorous biography of Columbus so far. It is basically an unknown story, since what they teach us in school is almost all of it lies and myths, for example that Queen Elizabeth sold her jewells to finance the first trip, or that everybody in Columbus' time believed the Earth was flat. By any standard, Columbus was a bit of a lunatic who probably also suffered from what todat we call bipolar disease (for example, he thought that God spoke to him directly). He seems to have been given to theatricality and emotional blackmail, but undoubtedly he was also very intelligent and a great navigator. He also had an urge for social climbing, and he longed for glory and fame more than for money. He was obsessed with finding a way to China, India and Japan by sailing West, which suited the Western European powers's commercial interests. As said before, in his time the great debate among learned people was not over the flatness or roundness of the Earth, but about its size. Columbus, by grossly underestimating it, became convinced that the voyage to Asia was within reach. Had there been no American continent, he would have been murdered or starved to death. But he was also a very courageous and brave man, and so he made possible what seemed impossible. He was a very bad politician, and his emotional diseases made him quarrel with soon former friends, which of course marred his leadership abilities. His life, very well written by Fernandez-Armesto, is a glorious, tragic and incredible epic which reads like the best adventure novels.	2005-10-13
700:US	49263512	R2GY47GW861XKY	0027893901	987540997	Ivan the Fool and Other Tales of Tolstoy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Some of them are really good	This collection of tales by the great Tolstoy contains some gems and some not-so-good ones. See, this is due to the fact that Count Leo had at least two phases in his brilliant career as a writer. In the most important one, he revealed himself as a master craftsman of the Verbe, an acute and profound vivisector of the human soul, like in \\"Anna Karenina\\", \\"War and Peace\\", \\"Hadji Murad\\" and his best tales. In a late phase, Tolstoy transformed himself into a preacher, a proponent of rural lifestyles -which is fine if it does not contain the condemnation of other lifestyles. Even worse, he turned into a moralist, preaching to the world the way everybody should conduct their affairs, and into a moral celebrity.  <br /> <br />Bat anyway some of his tales are really good, including \\"Ivan the  Fool\\", which nonetheless lets the reader see very clearly the cheap philosophy behind it. In my opinion, the best tales in this collection are \\"Polikushka\\", a masterpiece of crude and rude Naturalism, vivid and sad; \\"Albert the Musician\\", a sadness of alcoholic delirium-tremens; \\"Forty years\\", the story of Divine punishment; and \\"The Three Questions\\", about moral learning. <br /> <br />The strange characteristics of Russian literature shine through in this volume: mysticism, spiritual torment, poverty and harsh weather abound in the work of this great author.	2005-10-13
873:US	49263512	R3MKXKE909RL76	0140195017	612933632	The Monks of War: The Military Religious Orders (Arkana)	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Tough knights in shining armour	This is a very good introduction to the history of the military religious orders: Templars, Hospitallers of Saint John (today Knights of Malta), Santiago, Calatrava, Alcantara, Teutons and others. The first ones, Templars and Hospitallers, were founded in the XII Century, after the First Crusade, in order to protect pilgrims in the Holy Land and to provide humanitarian and medical services. Soon, these monks became more warriors than anything else, true machines of war which came to be the first organized and properly trained and disciplined professional elite troops in the West since the Roman Empire. The West and Islam lived then (and still do) in a permanent state of threat and holy war. Although these warriors made vows of poverty, obedience and chastity, they soon accumulated enormous riches, fighted one another and their discipline, especially in sexual matters, relaxed.<br /><br />The first part of the books tells the two centuries of Christian occupation in the Holy Land, which the Islam had taken by force centuries before, and where, despite some resounding successes, the Christians ended up being totally defeated and expelled, to this day. The second part tells the story of the Crusade in the Baltic, performed by the Teutonic Knights against the pagan Slav Prussians, terrifying cannibals adoring spirits in trees, as well as snakes in the woods. These Teutonics founded what was probably the first \\"modern\\" state: Prussia (the German one). This story is practically unknown, in spite of being totally fascinating. The third part is the Reconquest of Spain, where the orders were crucial in defeating the Moors. Then come the stories of the Hospitallers in Rhodes and Malta -also wonderful- and then what became of the existing orders today.<br /><br />One striking common theme during the thousand years covered is the permanent and bloody conflict between the West and Islam. In spite of the torrent of names, places and dates, this book is an incredible collection of adventures and improbable deeds, especially the sieges of Acre, Rhodes and Malta, as well as the Spanish Reconquista and the Prussian episode. The tone of the book is apologetic, the author himself being a Knight of Malta, but it also vividly portraits the terrible atrocities committed by both sides. It fills a huge vacuum in the historical and political education of almost any reader, besides being an impressive saga of courage, dedication, violence, survival, glory, triumph, defeat and corruption at the same time. It really motivates you to read more about this subject.on of adventures and improbable deeds, especially the sieges of Acre, Rhodes and Malta, as well as the Spanish Reconquista and the Prussian episode. The tone of the book is apologetic, the author himself being a Knight of Malta, but it also vividly portraits the terrible atrocities committed by both sides. It fills a huge vacuum in the historical and political education of almost any reader, besides being an impressive saga of courage, dedication, violence, survival, glory, triumph, defeat and corruption at the same time. It really motivates you to read more about this subject.	2005-10-13
1144:US	49263512	R5OGK09CCB473	0812550927	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (Tor Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Prescience and adventure	This is one of the most famous novels by Verne, and justifiedly so.  A strange thing is happening in the seas of the world: a gigantic sea monster is terrorizing and sometimes sinking ships. The US government assembles a team of experts and sails around the world to discover the monster and catch it. Among them are two French scientists, Prof. Arronax and his assistant Conseil, and a Canadian harpooner, Ned Land. One day they fall to the sea while chasing the thing, and then are astonished when the monster rescues them. Alas, it turns out it's not a monster, but a machine that can travel under the surface of the waters. That is, a submarine, nonexistent at the time the book was written. So the three men become the prisoners of the enigmatic Captain Nemo and his crew. The \\"Nautilus\\" is a self-supporting device, lavishly decorated and the work of a genius, a strange one. The central question throughout the book remains: Why have Nemo and his people rejected all contact with their fellow human beings? What happened to him and to them to escape the world and become lonely travellers of the underseas? Mystery. During many months, our heroes travel around the globe, and in the way they discover Atlantida, hunt in submerged forests, rescue a pearl-gatherer, rest in a submerged volcano, and fight aborigines and giant squids. Prof. Arronax classifies and describes every creature they encounter, which slows down the reading between adventures.<br /><br />I took one star out of the book because it lacks a central feature of any great work of literary art: character development. To reach the highest literary glory, Verne lacks psychological depth, the exploration of human beings' motivations. I would have loved to know Nemo's story, his reasons for doing what he does. But it doesn't matter much. To read Verne is to come back home, to turn back the time and be a kid again, flying to that moment when one discovers the infinite possibilities of literature, chief among them the chance to live other lives and see the world anew. Verne and his characters have a unique charm, and in this book the fascination od the ocean is added.	2005-10-13
1299:US	49263512	R204GBDD58D1AV	0871136643	331588213	The Lucifer Principle: A Scientific Expedition into the Forces of History	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A revelation	This is a provocative, bold and fascinating book that mixes up scientific reasearch and history to prove that \\"evil\\" is deeply ingrained in our brain, that it is an essential part of us, and that it serves a natural purpose. Just like genes use organisms to reproduce and grow, we use superorganisms -societies- to the same end. These superoganisms and their componentes (individuals), among  which there is always a hierarchy -the pecking order of societies- use memes -ideas, concepts, ways of doing things- to justify and achieve favorable changes in the said hierarchy. Bloom uses examples from the animal world (ants, rats, chimps, gorillas and chickens) to show us the superorganism in action, as well as human history's examples to reveal to us human superorganisms in action (Rome, China's Cultural Revolution, the Iranian Islamic Revolution, etc.). He studies the memes par excellence, religion and ideologies, to show the way in which they have been used in the eternal struggle to alter the pecking order in one's favor. Bloom thus shows that the whole is more than the sum of its parts, since each individual is but an expendable cell in the social superorganism. Just as Bruce Thornton does in his book \\"Plagues of the Mind\\", Bloom proves that the Noble Savage is just a myth, and debunks other myths like the idea that females, including women, are by nature more peaceful and harmonious than males. They simply play different roles within every superorganism. In fact, playing different roles has distinct effects in the biological functioning of animals and persons. Those individuals who play a superior role in the social order tend to have better health and better looks than the rest, for example lower arterial pressure. Isolation may prove fatal, just like the lack of use of members tends to atrophy them. Another characteristic of superorganisms, according to Bloom, is that they give themselves myths and identify enemies, in order to create an identity and a social cohesion. We humans have created memes to control other humans. And by the way, memes can produce peace and progress, or backwardness and hatred, and so there are substantial differences in the quality of different cultures, and not the other way around, like multiculturalists sustain. Either totally accurate or not, this book is an eye-opener and an agent provocateur of intelligent debate, and so it is most welcome.  <br /> <br />PS: be aware that Bloom does not deny free will nor presents human beings as just bricks in the wall. He simply takes us to the big picture and shows how it works.	2005-10-13
2064:US	49263512	R3PMTIQRKQ6KNI	0786704713	690505973	Lily of the Valley	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A huge joke	That is this book: a huge joke. Of course I won't reveal the ending, but it's definitely that. The other two reviewers on this page have noted that Balzac regarded this novel, certainly not his best, as one of his favourites, and I think that is due to the fact that throughout it he is playing with the characters and with the reader. One of the reviewers also noted the similarity with subjects treated by Stendhal and Falubert, and indeed it would be good if someone (I may do it one day) wrote an essay comparing this novel to Stendhal's \\"Red and Black\\" and Flaubert's \\"The Sentimental Education\\".  <br /> <br />This is what literary critics call a \\"bildungsroman\\", a novel of apprenticeship -or lack of it. Apparently a Romantic novel, it can also be read from the other side of the street, as an Anti-Romantic novel. The experienced reader of Balzac is surprised that here he turns out so much corniness and cheap sentimentality, until he/she finds out why at the end.  <br /> <br />Felix de Vandenesse is the youngest child of a noble family of Touraine, in beautiful Western Central France, whose luck has been bad under the Revolution and the Napoleonic Age. Nobody loves poor Felix, especially his horrible mother, who sends him to live first with a breast-feeder and then to cruel boarding schools where he suffers from loneliness and poverty. During his return home, he attends a party where he instantly falls in love with a married woman, older than him. In fact, he falls so in love that he kisses her shoulder, to the astonishment and rejection of the surprised lady. Felix then falls into depression and his mother sends him to the countryside with some rich friends. And... surprise surprise, the neighbor of the friends is none other than the lady and her husband and two permanently sick kids. Felix befriends the Mortsauf family and starts a strange, indeed sick, romance with his beloved, Henriette, Madame de Mortsauf. It's a platonic, repressed and tormented love affair. Thefour memebers of the Mortsauf family are among the strangest and most complex in all of literature, especially the Count and Henriette. The former is an asylum lunatic suffering from bipolar depressive disease, big time. He is hypochondriac, coleric, verbally violent, blackmailer and unsympathetic, and he makes life hell to his wife and kids. Henriette is also an emotional blackmailer, a religious fanatic, martyr by vocation, overprotecting mother and a lover with the Wendy complex: she feels herself to be the mother Felix never really had. The kids are two morbid creatures with a foot in the tomb, who appear and disappear like the children in Henry James's \\"Turn of the Screw\\". The novel is written in the form of a long letter Felix writes to his current lover many years after the events. <br /> <br />After some months by Henriette's side, young -and virgin- Felix leaves for Paris, where he will enjoy contacts in high places, provided by Henriette's parents. When he leaves, Felix carries a wonderful letter written by Henriette, in which she gives him sound advice about how to deal with the world of politics, sex, and business. It's one of the best parts of the novel. Through the years, Felix comes and goes keeping the platonic relationship with her. But then he gets an English lover and it all goes to the dogs. The scene of the confrontation with Henriette on the subject of the sexuallly greedy lover comes right out of a bad soap-opera: \\"I enjoy her body but it's you I really love\\" , \\"I'll never be yours but then no other can be\\".  <br /> <br />In the end cruel and funny, it is a little piece of psychological penetration, a dissertation on human nature, an examination of love, and the analysis of a twisted passion.	2005-10-13
102291:US	49263512	R2E0MJ8YYBWA0Q	1414258011	425681427	Red Redmaynes, The	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Great mystery in the moors	Mark Brendon is a rising star in Scotland Yard, a 35 year old guy who has become successful and somewhat famous. One day in the early  20's, he's down in Dartmoor on vacation, when something unusual happens: one man disappears in what seems to be a murder, but the prime suspect is also gone. The supposedly murdered man's wife asks Brendon for help, and so he starts looking into the mystery. Also, he falls for her, hard. The suspect happens to be the woman's uncle, a strange man suffering from shell shock after service in WWI. Neither man is found, and suspecting the other two uncles might be in danger, Jenny, the young wife, goes to live with one of them, uncle Bendigo Redmayne, who lives in a countryhouse in the steep coast of Southwestern England. <br /> <br />There, Brendon is introduced to the handsome boat driver Doria, Uncle Bendigo's employee. Doria is helpful and talkative, but Brendon instinctively dislikes him. After a while, the affaire fades away, there being no notice of the men. One day Brendon pays a visit to Jenny and Bendigo. He's still in love with her. On his way back, Brendon sees the suspect Uncle, Bob, who runs away apparently afraid. Thus, the search begins anew, with more murders, strange interviews and no results. The action moves then to the beautiful lakes in Italy near the Swiss border, when the manhunt continues. An American detective is called to help the unproductive Brendon, and eventually the mystery is solved, with tragic consequences. <br /> <br />This is a very fine detective novel, on of Borges' favorite (and he was an expert on the genre). The locations, the mood and the scenery are perfect for the kind of story it tells. The characters are pretty well developed, and as with any good book, it goes beyond the mere plot to reveal something relevant about human nature. Hopefully this novel will gain a renewed public in the future, since it is very well written and entertaining. Much recommended.	2005-08-20
154721:US	49263512	R3ABR2EHZZBAE8	0140441417	925590424	Sentimental Education (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great passions and bad choices	Generally considered by the critic as a work slightly below \\"Madame Bovary\\", this book is probably better. If the former is the criticism of life in the countryside, the latter is the unmerciful criticism of life in Paris between 1840 and 1850 something. Frederic Moreau, a young man of affluent situation, has finished his studies in Sens and moves to Paris to look after fortune, and, above all, after love. During a trip to his native Nogent-sur-Seine, Frederic makes the acquaintance  of a certain Jacques Arnoux, editor and art merchant. Instantly, he falls madly in love with the man's wife, Marie Arnoux. This passion will literally consume his whole life. Frederic goes back to Paris and sets upon conquering Mme. Arnoux and become her lover. To that end, he befriends M. Arnoux and his circle. He even becomes yet another lover of Arnoux's mistress, Rosanette, a disolute and ignorant but charming young woman whom he meets in an all-night party with Arnoux and other colorful characters.  <br /> <br />What follows is precisely the sentimental education of Frederic, a series of triumphs and defeats, of lost opportunities, as well as a comprehensive panoramic view of the Paris of those years, especially the Revolution of 1848 and its turbulent consequences, in which every character gets involved, except for Frederic himself. At one poiint, in a moment of failure and depression, Frederic goes back to Nogent, where he languishes and becomes the object of adoration of his little neighbour, Louise Roque. After believing he is economically ruined, he gets notice that an uncle has died and left him as sole heir, which makes him very rich. Stimulated by the good news, he returns to Paris and introduces himself in the grand world, thanks in part to his friendship with M. and Mme. Dambreuse. Meanwhile, after a disillusion with Marie Arnoux, he becomes the (almost) full-time lover of Rosanette.  <br /> <br />In the background we witness the political mayhem which seem to affect everybody except him. And in his own life's background, the passion for Marie becomes the leitmotif of his life. Encounters and, above all, disappointments, mark that always embrionary and frustrating relationship. Finally, life is what it has to be, according to the decisions of every character.  <br /> <br />\\"Sentimental Education\\" is practically a perfect work. The economy of words and resources is never at odds with the poetic quality of the prose. But it is by no means a romantic book. Much on the contrary, it is a manifest against Romanticism, a fight against it. Flaubert never gets lost in verbosity; he always gets to the point and in the first one hundred pages he diposes of five years. In the last ones, something like fifteen years. It is the story of one -or better, many- disillusions. It is cruel, cold and passionate at the same time. Character development, and the abundance of them, is astonishing. Like in every great master of writing, even very minor characters have a personality of their own. The most disconcerting one is Frederic himself, a kind of permanent and passive witness of his world and the world around him. Little things of everyday life, clothes, and especially a certain small silver jewelry-box, embody a symbolic but absolute relevance. Flaubert portraits the corruption, frivolity, treason, adultery, fakeness and greed of nobles, bourgeois and proletary alike. Nobody gets spared, not even the reader, in this book whose ending is terrible and yet not, but certainly moving. The reader, at least this one, comes out of it with a wrinkled heart, and with more wisdom about the ways of the world. Absolutely recommended.	2005-07-21
201874:US	49263512	R1J81G3300R7WJ	0375406972	667466602	Snow	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The futile search for love	It is very easy to mistake this for a political novel. I don't think it is, although of course politics is present in the plot and in the emotional background. After twelve years as a political exile in Germany, 42 years-old poet Ka returns to Turkey. In Istanbul, he finds out that Ipek, the girl upon whom he used to have a crush in college, has divorced and now lives in the remote Northeastern town of Kars. He arrives there with a journalistic assignment to report on municipal elections and a wave of suicides by young Islamic girls. These are girls who refuse to take off their headscarves, the wearing of which in school has been banned by the State. The leader of the movement is Ipek's sister. Ka gets there at the begininig of a three-day snow blizzard, and the same day, at the National Theatre, there is a strange and bizarre military coup, during which twentysomething people die, especially young Islamic students. Ka had suffered from writer's block for several years, but now, in this povert-stricken place, surrounded by the amazing snow and filled with a sudden and absolute love for Ipek, he starts writing poems again. At the same time, Ka gets involved in politics, as he has contact with every possible faction in town: secularists, socialists, liberals, Kurds, and, above all, Islamic fundamentalists. He is chosen by Blue, the local clandestine Islamic leader, to convey his message to the West (a lunacy by a lunatic), and this gets Ka in danger. Blue happens to be the lover of Ipek's sister and also... OK, I won't give up that part. <br />In the end, politics will force Ipek to decide whether to go back with Ka to Frankfurt or not. <br /> <br />The novel is imperfect but well written. The plot is fast and tense, the love story is very moving, and at some parts it makes you sit on the edge. Although politics is everywhere, I don't think it is a political novel (in the sense that it explores or takes part in a political debate), but a novel about identity and a sense of emotional balance. Ka is a likable character, although a little obscure. Ipek's depiction makes you want to go there and propose. The atmosphere is simply snow, a lot of snow coming from the sky, darkness, cold, poverty, isolation and misery. It is about loneliness and love, about loss and oblivion. The political part is simply a harsh context for a sad story.	2005-06-16
202046:US	49263512	R2589DS56CL88G	1860468233	483837365	Danube (Panther)	Books	5	28	32	N	N	A river of memory	In this fascinating journey, Magris takes us from the very -and much disputed- sources of the Danube in the Black Forest, in Southern Germany, to the mouth of the river in the Black Sea, in Romanian territory. Along the way, Magris recreates the legends, stories and historical moments of every village and city he visits. The Danube area is, of course, full of history, since most peoples who ever set foot in Europe seem to have crossed it one way or another. Princes, wars, writers, lovers, many interesting and even fascinating stories illuminate for the reader the waters of the Danube. It really makes you want to make the same trip. <br /> <br />It would be interesting to read an update by Magris, especially about those places who were then under Soviet rule, now that almost 20 years have passed since the publication of the book. Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and the former Yugoslavia all pass before your eyes like a dream.  <br /> <br />Every town and story motivates in Magris deep reflections on history, memory, the passage of time, politics, and many other subjects. Magris's prose is dense in the best sense of the term: it is rich and deep, with a poetic quality to it. Very much recommended, it discovers for us many writers from that area who seem worth to read.	2005-06-16
321177:US	49263512	R239RCYK0KBX8Z	0679772871	380732504	The Magic Mountain	Books	5	346	360	N	N	The great novel of ideas	In this absolute masterwork, Mann tells us the story and the education -intellectual, emotional and spiritual- of young Hans Castorp. Recently graduated from his engineering studies at the university, and just about to begin working for a shipyard, Castorp travels to the Swiss Alps at Davos. He is supposed to spend there three weeks visiting his cousin Joachim Ziemssen, who is receiving treatment against tuberculosis in a high-mountain hospital. After the three original weeks, Castopr discovers he is \\"sick\\", and so he stays there seven years, the span of this magnificent \\"bildungsroman\\" or novel of apprenticeship and inner growth. It is never really clear if Castorp does get sick or if he gets trapped by the magical place.  <br /> <br />Anyway, the isolated hospital is the perfect place for Mann to create this microcosmos of Europe and of life, a few years before that world came crumbling down forever in the suicidal WWI. In the Berghoff hospital, Castorp meets several people which will be, either through affinity or antagonism, his mentors. But first we have to mention the beautiful Russian Clawdia Chauchat, the one with the \\"steppenwolf-like eyes\\", a little older than Castorp, and with whom he falls in love -from a distance. Castorp will only have one chance of passionate love with her, before she temporarily leaves the hospital. The rest of their love will be only Platonic.  <br /> <br />But Castorp meets other interesting and influential people. The most important one is Settembrini, an extremely sympathetic and attractive character. He is an Italian rationalist and liberal, who talks about progress, democracy, freedom, and the bright future of humankind, once it is set free from oppression and superstition. Settembrini embodies Western culture , faith in science, and progress, with a touch of naivete. Settembrini is sarcastic and straightforward, and a great creator of memorable sentences.  <br /> <br />Halfway through the novel appears Settembrini's antagonist, his eternal (or almost) rival in heated debates. He is Naphta, a Jewish converted to Jesuit seminarist, who is a dangerous and terrorist radical. He embodies the spirit of the Middle Ages, mysticism and occultism. At the same time a religious fanatic and a Communist (after all, Communism is more a religion than a philosophy), Naphta hates all things bourgeois: family, business, democracy, science and freedom of thought. He proposes a world that is static and egalitarian, a mystic Communism ruled by the Church, and he states that the only way to reach that Utopia is through Terrorism. Settembrini's and Naphta's discussions, which have a prophetic ending, are of the utmost relevance for our time.  <br /> <br />A third mentor appears, late in the book, in the form of the millionare Dutchman Peeperkorn. He is an old, vane an at the same time endearing man. He comes back with Clawdia when she returns from her European sojourn, as her lover. Even though he is his beloved's lover, Castorp develops a father-son relationship with this man. Peeperkorn represents the Dyonisiac impulse, the life of the flesh, the senses, and the self. Irritant and inarticulate, Peeperkorn teaches Castorp many things about life, until he makes a sad, honorable and admirable decision. I won't spoil the ending, but it makes for one of the best books ever written. <br /> <br />Anyone who reads this book, aside from his or her affinities, will come out of it a little or much wiser. Like in \\"Doktor Faustus\\" (which can be considered a philosophical sequel and which I have reviewed here in Amazon), Mann brilliantly explores a number of important subjects. The most important is Time, or rather, the passage of Time. What is Time? Can it be really measured? Is it its length the same for all of us, all the time? What is its relationship with Space? The hospital's isolation, as I said, is perfect to explore this subject. The other major subject is sickness and health, as well as the relationship between body and mind. And, of course, Society. Mann opposes the rational and liberal mentality to the mystic and spiritual. <br /> <br />Never boring -in spite of its seemingly dense themes-, and with a great sense of humor and of irony, this book can be read fastly and merrily, even though it is long. Character development is of the highest order, as well as the Alpine setting and the poetic quality of Mann's prose.  <br /> <br />PS: Look out, near the end of the sixth part (there are seven), for a chapter called \\"Snow\\". It is magical and it could be a masterfull short story in its own merit.	2005-03-09
322725:US	49263512	R26DGCLZ41MB3L	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	5	167	178	N	Y	Do it for the Fat Lady	This book consists of two interrelated stories about members of the Glass family. These kids (seven of them if I remember well) are the children of a showbusiness family from New York and they used to be genius-kids who appeared on a radio show answering quizzes and philosophizing. Apparently the Glass kids had a special education in an ecumenical religiosity and philosophy, and their situation as whiz kids has led to emotional distress, much a-la Holden Caulfield but more illustrated. By the way, in terms of its central themes, this book could be said to be the closing of the full circle of Caulfield's story. The Glasses, just like Caulfield, are intelligent people, very frustrated with the inadequacies of life in general and the people who surround them. They are very neurotic in a New York way. They are angry because people aren't as intelligent as they should be, and because the ways of the world are not what reason and humanism tell us they should be. How to cope with it? <br /> <br />In the first story, Franny, a young college girl, arrives in New Haven (Yale) to be with her preppy and also intellectualizing boyfriend for a football weekend. They go to a cafe to have some food (and drinks and cigarettes). The story is simply the account of their talk. Salinger is one of the greatest masters of frenzied and fast dialogue, and it shows here. Franny is telling his boyfriend about all the phoniness of campus life, about the lunacy and presumptuosness of teachers and classmates. She tells him how she has read a book about a Russian monk who discovers a special Jesus prayer. If you repeat this prayer incessantly, it will become a part of you and repeat itself automatically, bringing you closer to grace and peace. The conversation starts getting out of hand as Franny gets carried away and as the boyfriend becomes rather estranged, until Franny collapses on her way to the restroom. When she wakes up, she is constantly whispering the Jesus prayer. <br /> <br />In the second story, Franny is at her parents' home in NY, recovering from her nervous breakdown. In a long talk with her brother Zooey (both of them being the youngest Glass children), they confront each other's traumas, weaknesses, genius and problems with the world. Zooey is also extremely talented and aware of the inadequacies of the world, but he seems to be in a (slightly) better emotional phase than Franny. The dialogue is moving, neurotic and masterful. After they argue rather violently, Zooey goes to another room and calls Franny pretending to be an older brother living away. In a further conversation Zooey forces Franny to understand that following a simple but futile recipe will not do the trick. The Jesus prayer is not enough: we have to accept the world as it is as well as the people around us. We can not be \\"catchers in the rhye\\". But we should live an ethical life, just because (which made me think of Kant's \\"categorical imperative\\"). As Seymour Glass, the eldest brother, once said to Zooey, sometimes you have to do things \\"for the Fat Lady\\", that is, just because it is the right thing to do, even if no one will notice. <br /> <br />\\"Frany and Zooey\\" is written in a lower key. It is unprententious, unlike its characters, but deep down it is about profound questions. How to cope with this mad world filled with people who are not bright nor good? Can you save the world? How to live? Yes, sometimes we have to do things we wouldn't like to do, but we have to do it, if only for the Fat Lady.	2005-03-08
323184:US	49263512	R25QN4WKMCW5C0	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	What lies beneath the surface	These are nine vignettes, barely sketches, of what goes on inside the souls of apparently perfectly normal people. More: they are normal, as most of us are, but they, like us, hide inside longings and surprising reactions to everydat situations. Most characters are Newyorkers, and most of them are also young, sometimes very young, people. Salinger, as showed in \\"Catcher in the Rhye\\" and in \\"Franny and Zooey\\", has a great eye for the attitudes, perceptions and preoccupations of kids and teenagers, as well as a great ear for the way they really speak. Amazingly, most of the time Salinger's kids sound like contemporary ones.<br /><br />In my opinion, the best four tales were these: \\"A Perfect Day for Bananafish\\", in which Seymour Glass, older brother to Franny and Zooey, meets his destiny after a strange but tender and amusing talk with a little girl on the beach. \\"For Esme, with Love and Squalor\\", tells the amazing conversation between a young British girl and a soldier fighting in WWII. She is one of the most interesting young characters in Salinger's work, and the end is poignant and painful, but endearing. \\"De Daumier-Smith's Blue Period\\"  is a wonderful satire of painters' autobiographies, a tale in a farsical tone. And \\"Teddy\\" is another small masterpiece about a young boy travelling with his parents on a cruise. This boy  is a lecturer on reencarnation, and his talk with an older but still young guy is one of the most memorable pieces in modern literature.<br /><br />The rest are also good, but didn't strike me as much as the others. In \\"Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut\\" we see the emotional collapse of a young mother, as she talks and drinks the evening away with a friend from college, with the interesting appearance of her daughter, another weird but still normal Salingerian character. \\"Down at the Dinghy\\" is a short snap of another of the Glass girls talking with her shy but brave little son. \\"Just Before the War with the Eskimos\\" is another farce, a fight between two spoiled brats of Newyorker girls, and then how one of them discovers love, or at least romantic interest, in an unlikely guy. \\"The Laughing Man\\" is the most enigmatic of these tales. Finally, \\"Pretty Mouth and Green my Eyes\\" is just neurotic.<br /><br />Christianism in its most unsuspected manifestations, the pains, agonies and glory of being a child or a teenager, people from the exotic New York, hidden longings and passions, all of this and more is the subject of one of last century's most penetrating and enigmatic writers. I wonder what he has been up to these last years.n two spoiled brats of Newyorker girls, and then how one of them discovers love, or at least romantic interest, in an unlikely guy. \\"The Laughing Man\\" is the most enigmatic of these tales. Finally, \\"Pretty Mouth and Green my Eyes\\" is just neurotic.<br /><br />Christianism in its most unsuspected manifestations, the pains, agonies and glory of being a child or a teenager, people from the exotic New York, hidden longings and passions, all of this and more is the subject of one of last century's most penetrating and enigmatic writers. I wonder what he has been up to these last years.	2005-03-08
341582:US	49263512	R2J52YCYBJZ37F	0743216768	499277831	The Measure of All Things: The Seven-Year Odyssey and Hidden Error That Transformed the World	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A story about science and scientists	This book follows a recent trend, which has produced some very good books, to take a relevant but poorly known scientific development and telling its story and the story of its main protagonists. Alder has chosen the story of how, in the late XVIII Century, the Royal Academy of Sciences in France was trying hard to reach the definitive measurement of the meter, and hence of all the metric system, the one which today dominates weights and measures around the world. The meter was supposed to be a ten millionth of the distance from one of the poles to the equator. The French proposed taking a sample of one meridian, the segment running from Dunkirk down to Barcelona, measuring it to perfection and then inferring the rest of the distance of the meridian. One ten millionth of that would be the meter. Two outstanding astronomers are chosen for the job, which was supposed to last no more than a year. But alas, the French Revolution comes to full gear at the beginning of the labors, and our scientists suffer all kinds of setbacks, prolonging the task for seven long and hard years. <br /> <br />Who were these gentlemen? Well, here is where the story gets all its fascinating features, illuminating the reader about how much the personalities involved in research can affect the scientific outcome of it. The first man is Jean Baptiste Joseph Delambre. He is a man of humble origins, a Classicist who has become tutor to a noble and rich family. A late bloomer, Delambre  has become a remarkable astronomer almost all by himself, as a disciple of renowned (a magnificent and eccentric character) Jerome Lalande. The other man is a professional astronomer, also a disicple of Lalande's. His name is Pierre Francois Andre Mechain, who lives in the Royal Observatory in Paris.  <br /> <br />Delambre goes north of Paris to Dunkirk while Mechain goes south to Barcelona. In the early days of their quest, political events (the execution of King Louis XVI and the instauration of the Terror) impose severe setbacks to both scientists. So severe, that the original year of labor will stretch to seven years. This is where the book reaches high altitudes, when it describes the differences in personalities between Delambre and Mechain. Granted, Mechain suffers much more, including a terrible accident and exile in Italy. But while Delambre is patient, practical and business-going, Mechain starts developing a severe anguish, emotional imbalance and paranoia. All this is aggravated by a mysterious situation, which really becomes the axis of the story: while measuring up the latitude at Montjuich, south of Barcelona, Mechain seems to make a mistake which will torment him for the rest of his life. One of the meditions (each one related to a different star) simply doesn't fit with the rest. Delambre or any other practical astronomer would simply have dismissed the incongrous data as a mysterious distortion, but Mechain, a man obsessed with an accuracy impossible for his age, decides not to disclose the mistake, fearing it might destroy his reputation. And so, year after year, he carries along his guilt and his paranoia.  <br /> <br />Somehow, the book has a happy ending I will not spoil here. Suffice it to say this a very interesting and well written story about a true and relevant scientific quest. Don't get bogged down in scientific detail if you don't get everyting right. The adventure and the human story are more than satisfactory enough.	2005-02-21
341745:US	49263512	R1MPVUCFVRRHM	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	7	8	N	N	When Satan came to town	One fine day, the Devil arrives in Moscow, in the time of Stalin. He starts off by predicting and then causing the horrible death of a writer who had told him neither God nor the Devil existed. Then he causes great misfortunes (although mostly comical ones) all over town, assisted by the motliest of crews: a tall, thin man ridiculously attired, who wears broken pince-nez, called Koroviev; Azazelo, a dwarfish guy with a protruding fang; a redheaded vampiress; and a black cat who talks nonsense and walks straight up, called Behemoth. Many people end up in an asylum for maniacs, including the companion of the dead writer, Ivan Homeless, an aspiring poet who is confined after he tells his story with Wolland (as the Devil calls himself). In the asylum, Ivan meets a guy called simply the Master, who tells him a sad love story with a married woman called Margarita. The Master happens to have written a biography of Pontius Pilate (whose first part is curiously told by Wolland in his first conversation with the writers). After he had finished the book, the Stalinist censors destroyed both the book and the Master's emotional sanity, and so he ended up in the asylum and separated from his lover Margarita.  <br /> <br />After causing great disasters in Moscow, including a very crazy performance of magic in a theater, the devils set out to fulfill their mission, which is precisely to reunite the Master and Margarita. This they achieve by transforming the peaceful Margarita into a witch, making her fly on a broom to a witches' party and then to the aposents of Wolland up in the sky, or down in Hell, God knows where. There she presides over a great Satanic ball, and after that she gets together with the Master and they are freed from suffering and given over to eternal peace, along with Pilate. Interspersed with the main story is the one about Joshua's (Jesus) trial and crucifixion, in an heterodox version, of course. The overall tone of the story is one of sarcasm, parody and black comedy. Bulgakov is supposed to having made fun of the Soviet regime, based on his own personal disheartening and tragic suffering of Stalinist repression and censorship. Of course, many of these allusions and real-life characters will go over your head, unless you are a very specialized scholar of Soviet history. But the book's main quality is a general parody of human vices, as well as an uncontrolled imagination and talent for wild, crazy sceneries and situations. The Great Satanic Ball is simply out of this world. Many influences are easily detected here: Dante's visit to Hell and, of course, Goethe's \\"Faust\\". I also was very much reminded of Lewis Carroll's crazy dialogues between Alice and the characters she encounters underground. There are many symbolisms, some of them obscure, but if you're only trying to have an entertaining and rewarding read, you don't need to worry about them. This is a literally fantastic romp, crazy, wild and well writtem, a true gem of last century's literature conceived and executed in some of the worst times of human history.	2005-02-21
403699:US	49263512	RI4UICIWZGL97	0460877305	654666450	King Amaz'd (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The religion of common sense	I have to disagree with the reviewer below. He says this book can only appeal to people interested in XVII century Spain, but I think this novel can be enjoyed by anyone who likes good literature. It is not so much about Spain or the XVII century, but about dogma and how institutionalized religion often strays far away from the core doctrine of their founders and drifts toward stupid rules based on prejudice and dogma. The young king of Spain, only 20 years old, has never seen a naked woman, and so he one day goes to a prostitute in the company of a mysterious young man who serves as his guide. The experience is so exciting that next day, after mass, the king expresses in public his wish to see the queen, his wife, naked. This unleashes a scandal, how is it possible that a king wants to see the queen naked? Gossip spreads all over Madrid and the Holy Inquisition convenes a meeting to debate the proposal. What follows is a delightful romp of political intrigue, conversations with the Devil, and the tearing apart of stupid superstitions (for example, that the king's sin will be the cause of defeat in war, as a punishment to all Spain). This is a very funny and short novel, with absurd theological discussions treated with humor and sharpness.	2005-01-03
412540:US	49263512	R13746BYEYDP4V	0300084935	176560451	Ancient Greece: From Prehistoric to Hellenistic Times (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Great overview of great civilization	Professor Martin has done a great job here, compressing into 221 pages the history of Greece from prehistoric to Hellenistic times. The book is very well written, and the fact that it includes maps, timelines and pictures helps a lot. The prose is clear and concise, with brief biographies of the most remarkable people. Martin has an ability to vividly depict the daily life and social structure of the Greeks, especially Athenians, that makes it very engaging and approachable. Of course, the main attraction of the book is that the Greek civilization was so fascinating, and that there is much in our own time that comes straight from them, so it's easy to feel empathy with the Greeks. We owe them so much. An excellent book to put some order in your chronology of events when you read texts from these times, and excellent as well as introduction or reminder.	2004-12-26
412640:US	49263512	R16QOQ6FNV8VW9	0156003945	696833954	Rituals (Harvest Book)	Books	2	7	19	N	Y	The emptiness of nothingness	Unfortunately, there are many writers who have talent, but no subject to write about. So they turn to fashionable fads and the emptiness of life to create stories so absurd and pointless that the reader (unless he or she shares that same emptiness) leaves out totally... well, empty. The only reason I'm giving this book two stars is because, as I said, Noteboom can write, and because there are several clever and even bright sentences in the book. The subject seems to be the Death of God in modern life, and it is an interesting one, only the author should have written a philosophical essay instead of a narrative. <br /> <br />Inni Wintrop is a lonely man totally estranged from his family. One day an aunt arrives and introduces him to an ex-lover, a man also estranged from his family and from the world. This man has a very cheap, infantile, Greenpeace-like anti-human environmental \\"philosophy\\". This man has replaced God with Nature and a neurotical daily schedule. Years later, Inni meets the man's son,  an Indonesian who pathetically follows each and every oriental New Age philosophy (until he commits suicide).  <br /> <br />In the first chapter, entitled \\"Interlude\\", the author tells us the story of how Inni lost his wife, because he got to bed with other women and never paid any attention to her (strange, so, that she leaves him). <br /> <br />That's the book, disconnected clever musings about how God doesn't exist and how lonely we are in this cold world. No character is deep or likable in the least, there is no plot nor conflict nor anything but the repulsive contemplation of people with nothing to do but gaze at their navels and look for stupid rituals to supplant God. None of them even have real jobs.	2004-12-26
480796:US	49263512	RYMV15YSMLUPK	0140443339	167010526	The Oresteia: Agamemnon; The Libation Bearers; The Eumenides	Books	5	4	5	N	N	From Gods' caprices to the rule of law	Aeschylus is the oldest of the three classical Greek tragedians, the other two being Sophocles and Euripides. In this trilogy, the only one surviving from Ancient Greek times, we see the development of human thought, from ascribing it all to the whims of the Gods, to the inauguration of popular jury and the Rule of Law. In \\"Agamemnon\\", we see the return of the Greeks' leader to his home, after ten years of war in Troy. Before the war, he had sacrificed his daughter Ifigenia to the Gods in order to have good winds, a deed which his wife, Clitmenestra, resented ever after (understandably). During the time he's been at war, Clitemnestra has taken Aigisthus, his husband's cousin, as her lover. When he comes back, Clitemnestra receives him and when he's takin his bath, she kills him in revenge for her daughter's murder (and because now she has a lover).  <br /> <br />In \\"The Libation Bearers\\", Orestes, son to Agamemnon and Clitemnestra, comes back to kill his mother, and then in \\"The Eumenides\\", he is put to trial. The last of the three plays is, in my opinion, the best. Three female monsters are after Orestes to punish him for having killed his mother, on orders from Zeus. But then Apollo stands up to defend him, on the grounds that he had foreseen and ordered him to do so. Orestes flees to Athena's temple to find refuge, and so the Godess intervenes. The Gods are thus trapped in a hard dilemma: What to do with Orestes? He has certainly killed his mother, but in revenge for his mother having killed his father for having killed their daughter (there was no Geraldo at the time to go to). Athena decides to try a new thing: she calls Athens's best citizens to act as popular jury, and the trial starts, with the Eumenides (the monsters) as prosecutors, Apollo as Orestes's counselor, Athena as judge and the citizens as jury.  <br /> <br />To me, this was fascinating because it describs the mythical way in which the capricious intervention of the Gods in human affairs was substituted by the Rule of Law. Aeschylus's style is easy to approach to, and this set of three tragedies should be read by everybody who wants to understand how we humans came to develop an idea of Law instead of Divine rule. Illuminating,.	2004-10-23
482919:US	49263512	R2Q60TK666FJJU	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Honor, hatred and redemption	This is easily one of my favorite novels. It has overtones of Greek tragedy, but most of all it is a very Shakespearian piece of literature, as can be seen in the force of dialogue and the magnificent eloquence of the characters, as well as in dramatic tension and the vividness of situations. Of course, it is all due to Dickens' great ability to take the English language to the highest form, as well as to his skill in creating characters, in particular Sidney Carton, Mr. Jarvis Lorry, Miss Pross and the Defarges.<br /><br />Dickens goes back and forth between tragedy and tenderness, violence and family quietness, between the intimate and social denounce, without failing or getting lost. He is, moreover, a genius of irony, of subtle sarcasm and sense of humor, even when the story is not comical at all.<br /><br />Dr. Manette has spent 18 years of unjust imprisonment in the Bastille (you'll find out later why). His little daughter has been rescued by an English banker and taken to London, where she grows up. Lucie is a charming young woman, the happiness of everybody around her. One day, Mr. Lorry, the banker, breaks the news that his father has been released, and they go to Paris to bring him back, a broken man on the brink of total insanity. A couple of years later, father and daughter are called as witnesses in the trial of a young Frenchman, accused of spionage, whom they had met on the trip from Paris to London. The man is acquitted thanks to the timely intervention of a lawyer, Sidney Carton. Years pass by happily. The Frenchman, Darnay, marries Lucie, with whom also Carton is in love. Carton is the character to follow and his parts are possibly the best crafted in the book, as Dickens paints us a portrait of a gifted but weak man, a good lawyer sunk in the depths of alcoholism and lack of self-esteem. Then the French Revolution breaks out, in all its horror. Mr. Lorry and Darnay are forced to travel to Paris, the first on business and the second on a call of honor. Darnay will get trapped in the Terror on account of the noble past he had renounced, and he will be put into prison. To say more would risk spoiling parts for future readers, but rest assured tension, drama and adventure increase rapidly as Darnay's imprisonment drags on. Another set of characters worth remarking are the Defarges, husband and wife, the leaders of the Revolution in their St. Antoine quarter. She is one of the most perverted, malefic, horrible and well-crafted female bad-guys in literature. It will give you the creeps every time she appears, and for good reasons.<br /><br />Although this is by no means a political novel (and so it's silly to complain that \\"there are no two sides to the story\\"), Dickens shows us both the contempt and despotism of the Ancien Regime, as well as the bruteness, baseness, horror and violence of the masses set loose to take revenge, to replace an old tiranny with a new, fiercer one.<br /><br />Some people complain that in Dickens' novels too many coincidences occur and some characters are too good or too bad. The hell with everything, there are amazing coincidences every day in the world and some people are too bad and other too good. When it all comes down to giving us a great piece of excitement, identification with the humankind, and pure fun, so be it. This is a wonderful way to spend your time.l get trapped in the Terror on account of the noble past he had renounced, and he will be put into prison. To say more would risk spoiling parts for future readers, but rest assured tension, drama and adventure increase rapidly as Darnay's imprisonment drags on. Another set of characters worth remarking are the Defarges, husband and wife, the leaders of the Revolution in their St. Antoine quarter. She is one of the most perverted, malefic, horrible and well-crafted female bad-guys in literature. It will give you the creeps every time she appears, and for good reasons.    Although this is by no means a political novel (and so it's silly to complain that \\"there are no two sides to the story\\"), Dickens shows us both the contempt and despotism of the Ancien Regime, as well as the bruteness, baseness, horror and violence of the masses set loose to take revenge, to replace an old tiranny with a new, fiercer one.     Some people complain that in Dickens' novels too many coincidences occur and some characters are too good or too bad. The hell with everything, there are amazing coincidences every day in the world and some people are too bad and other too good. When it all comes down to giving us a great piece of excitement, identification with the humankind, and pure fun, so be it. This is a wonderful way to spend your time.	2004-10-21
482936:US	49263512	R3KDSN1PUHFQW	0460876147	312893745	Three-Cornered Hat (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A  wild night in Andalusia	This book is like a comedy of errors told as a short novel. It is about a very happy couple, a miller and his beautiful wife, who live in a pretty mill-house in Andalusia, Southern Spain, in the early 1800's. Everybody in town has a crush with the miller's wife, including the town's principal political figure, a disgusting, lascivious old man. When this man tries to seduce the woman, all hell breaks loose in a crazy tale of mistaken identities, nocturnal escapades, horseriding and farce. It is a very easy to read book and it will give you a couple of hours of good-written entertainment, just like if you had gone to the movies, only here you get to decide the faces, places and color of everything.	2004-10-21
529122:US	49263512	RXIV0BB6RQY48	0060928832	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	3	5	N	N	I wonder what will come next	After a lifetime of study, travel, research and reading, Jacques Barzun sums up a history of the last 500 years of Western culture. It is, of course, a fascinating trip, from the awakening of Europe in the Renaissance to our wonderful and yet terrible times, with Internet, amazing advances in health and comfort sharing the world with loonies driving planes into buildings and stupid murderers blowing up schools filled with kids and teachers.  <br /> <br />Along the way, Barzun discovers the main themes of Western culture during these past 500 years: emancipation, individualism, progress, material comfort, primitivism, abstraction, analysis and the unconditioned life. Imbedded is also the continual struggle, within the human soul, of the two opposing forces of security and freedom.  <br /> <br />This book is cultural philosophy as it should be written: rigorous but at the same time accesible to the reader, with comprehensive indexes and notes at the end of the book, but without cumbersome and intruding footnotes or pedantry. It is a fascinating trip through the development of a way of being in the world. It has wonderful descriptions of what life was like at every stage of history, as the book concentrates not so much on what was happening in politics, war or the economy, but indirectly so, as it focuses on the common life of people and the trends in the arts and sciences.  <br /> <br />Along the way, Barzun tells us briefly the stories of many persons, whether or not they are famous nowadays, who made significant contributions, for good and bad, to the current state of the world. He also tells us what books could give the reader a deeper understanding of the trend, situation or character he is analyzing at every moment, which is very useful. Barzun writes alwalys with a tongue in his cheek, with a subtle and acute sense of humor. <br /> <br />Finally, when he analyzes the present, Barzun wraps up his conclusion that the present culture is in its final moments. But beware, the book is not the disappointed lament of an old man in his final days. It is simply a devastating statement about how several forces, which blossomed in the XX Century but which come from trends set before, are destroying the core of Western culture. But he understands that the end of this culture will not necessarily mean the end of the world. Barzun trusts that the West will be able to reinvent itself in a new shape, pass through a period of transition and finally rediscover the many good traits developed in the West in these past 500 years. Not pessimistic nor openly optimistic, this great work of philosophy will surely stimulate in the reader an impulse to look deeper into the current trends of the world and how we got here. It is entertaining and utterly readable in spite of being that long, and the cast of characters is fabulous. Much recommended.	2004-09-08
540818:US	49263512	R2NEKQBTXLPFXB	0380012057	52526986	Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Love in the time of change	Hidden behind a fabulous love story, this book contains an acute and profound analysis of social change: what progress, prosperity and civilization do to mores, habits and the way people see the world. Ilheus (look up the pictures in the internet, the place is very beautiful) is a small city on the coast of Brazil, between Bahia and Rio. The cacao crop is making many of the people in Ilheus richer and richer, and so new people come from different parts of Brazil and other countries, to find work and share the prosperity. The city and its surroundings have a history of violence and bloodshed, due to the bitter fights to get the best lands and control production and trade. The conquerors of these lands are called \\"colonels\\", the old barons, strongmen used to resolving disputes at gunpoint. \\"Democracy\\" is understood as having the same puppets winning all the time, assuring political control for the bosses. One should note that these guys are not simply crooks and killers. They are extremely audacious and brave people who used to have a point in behaving the way they did. <br /> <br />But times are changing. From Rio has come a man called Mundinho Falcao, a young, entrepreneurial, modern kind of man, who has brought new ideas and habits (like bathing in the sea). Ilheus has a problem: the entrance to the port is blocked by a sand barrier, which makes it impossible for big boats to get in, and so most of the revenue from the cacao trade goes to Bahia's capital. Mundinho, a man with strong political connections, is pushing for the beginning of works to remove this obstacle and bring more money to the town. This, of course, is a threat to the colonels' control of politics, and Mundinho is an ambitious man. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, there is this guy Nacib, a man from Syrian descent, who owns the most popular bar in Ilheus. On the day the novel begins, old habits make a big shock in the town's life, as everybody wakes up to learn that colonel Jesuino has discovered in bed hiswife and a dentist, and he has shot them both to dead, as a man should do (at least in Ilheus). But Nacib has other things to worry about, for his cook has left for good, on the eve of an important meal he has to serve. After many tribulations, Nacib goes to the \\"slave market\\", the place where destitute people from the poor inlands come to look for work. He finds Gabriela, a filthy young woman who says she can cook. After bathing, Gabriela turns out to be an extremely beautiful and sexy girl who becomes the object of desire for every man in town, and her cooking makes for big success at the bar. In order to keep her, and after falling madly in love with her, Nacib decides to marry her. The development of their love is very interesting, erotic and entertaining, and at some point it will become a new symbol of new habits and social mores. <br /> <br />The novel examines, through stories and things that happen in the town, many aspects of societal change, how progress affects old interests and brings about some violence, the kind of violence that signals the withering of the old regime and the arrival of new ways to do things, from politics to falling in love to dealing with infidelity. <br /> <br />Don't waste any more time: this is a gorgeous novel, full of humor, erotism, violence and politics. Characters are extremely well developed, all of them reminding the reader of people he/she has met in real life, especially if one has lived in a small city. <br /> <br />Plus it is very exotic, with a wildly tropical scenery. Amado is a great writer with many things to say and people to invent.	2004-08-28
559692:US	49263512	R1VYAH8AFWBU16	0879237511	267849428	Life: A User's Manual (English and French Edition)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	A whole panoramic view of life as it is -and can be	Although this is certainly an experimental novel, it is absolutely readable and fun. The layout is supposed to be taken from chess, with a knight jumping up on some squares which represent the appartments on the building map. Frankly, although ingenious, the scheme is not all that important to me. What truly fascinated me were the stories themselves, the full development of characters, situations, histories and sceneries. In every chapter, Perec gives us an introduction about how the appartment / room looks like. The descriptions may be long sometimes, but they are essential to the whole point of the book: to bring to life real people living in comprehensible, complete surroundings, and to make these easy to visualize. Some of the descriptions, in particular Mme. Moreau's dining room, are simply beautiful and innovative.    <br /> <br />The book was completed in 1978 and the action of the stories ranges from mid-XIX Century until June 23, 1975. The final chapter, which gives us a photograph of what each inhabitant is doing at that precise moment (8 pm), is also very beautiful and moving. The book projects a humanity so rich and vivid, hard to find in most fiction. The stories intertwine while being totally independent, and the cast of characters is wide-ranging and believable even in the most outrageous ones. <br /> <br />The central story, which forms the backbone of the book, is about a rich young man, Bartlebooth, a typically eccentric Englishman who decides to devote his life to a single, useless, morally neutral and highly aesthetical project: along with his faithful servant Smautf, he will visit 500 seaports to paint acquarelles of them, and every 15 days he will send the pictures to Winckler, an artisan also residing in the building. Winckler will make puzzles attaching the paintings to a wood panel and then cutting the pieces, not in the mechanical proceeding common to commercial puzzles, but in an artistic one. Then, after 20 years of wandering the world, Bartlebooth will come back to Paris and dedicate the following 20 years to put the puzzles back together, then sending them back to the place where they were painted, to be chemically cleaned up: destroyed. <br /> <br />It would be too long to mention here all the stories that caught my attention, but suffice it to say that they are incredibly different in content and style. Supposedly, the styles mimic those of distinguished writers like Poe, Joyce, Borges, Calvino, Flaubert, Kafka and others. <br /> <br />It is truly a fascinating, delightful book and I think that every taste will find some unforgettable stories here.	2004-08-10
586973:US	49263512	R3VU984PCW40EJ	1882897137	656189124	Zalacain the Adventurer	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fast action and a great character	Zalacain is a man born in the tiny Basque village of Urbia, in Northern Spain. It is a very beautiful place (and the book makes you yearn to go visit it), but Zalacain is born a poor fellow. He is a tough, brave young boy who then is orphaned and adopted by a great-uncle, rude and drunkard but also brave and smart. He teaches Zalacain to work hard and be clever, and after his death Zalacain gets better and better at his many businesses, of which the most prominent is smuggling things from France. Raging in Spain is a civil war, the Carlista war, and Zalacain learns to play with both parts to his advantage. He lives many adventures on the road along with his faithful, smart companion, who will marry his sister. Zalacain marries the daughter of the local rich family, whose brother ardently hates Zalacain since childhood. At some point in the story, Zalacain gets deeply involved in the war, which causes him a lot of trouble and new adventures, including jail, escape, and the kidnapping of a nun in order to save his girlfriend from a convent. Through his adventures, Zalacain manages to get the attention and love of a good many girls, but he always stays faithful to his, first, girlfriend then wife. By the end of the war, Zalacain will meet his destiny.<br />This is simply a gem of a book. It's short and it moves very quickly in brief episodes. It's a tale about a brave, smart man living in dangerous times. Zalacain is good but he's far from being a saint. After all, he's a smuggler and a tough man ready to use his fists and knife. He is cunning and of quick mind. The rest of the characters are very well developed, in spite of the brevity of the book. It's not a moralizaing tale, by any means. It's pure fun, pure storytelling at its best. How good was the time when great literature could produce big, heavy, philosophical books but also simple stories about common yet uncommon people having to make a living in a difficult age. What shines through in this book is the valueof everyday braveness, intelligence, allegiance to values, faithfulness and audacity.	2004-07-16
602430:US	49263512	R6ANH1T4V30BC	0679420290	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The perils of moral relativism	First be aware that this is not a philosophy book. As every great literary achievement is, it's a book that's hard to classify. Raskolnikov is a young, intelligent, but emotionally unstable young man who has had to quit school for lack of money and a depressive crisis. He seems to be mad at the world for the injustice which prevails in it. During this difficult and sad time, a very dangerous idea starts moving around his mind. There is this old lady pawnbroker, a bad woman who cheats on the desperate people who approach her. She has money she doesn't use for the benefit of his fellow humans. On the other hand, Raskolnikov is sure that he could be a great man and achieve things that would benefit the humankind... if only he had the means to jumpstart his career to glory and fame. From these two thoughts, Raskolnikov begins a road towards rationalizing his potential crime. He poses good questions (how come people who kill a lot of persons are called heroes and achieve fame and governments erect statues to honor them, but poor bastards who kill someone for money to eat are put in prison?) and finds bad answers: some extraordinary people are above the common laws and moral rules that guide the rest of humans. These extraordinary characters can not be subject to those vulgar rules, lest they could not achieve the great things destiny has them in store. So, we get to the crime: Raskolnikov deserves that money to reach greatness, and anyway the woman he will kill is harmful to society. So he goes and kill not only the pawnbroker, but also her good, half-witted sister.<br />What follows is the truly fascinating story of the aftermath of the crime, with a very clever, wise and interesting police detective playing cat and mouse with Raskolnikov, at the same time his life is crumbling down in guilt, paranoia, and inoportune events happening around him, to his family and friends. The story ends and begins within only a few days. Raskolnikov's mother and sister arrive in Saint Petersburg looking for him. His sister is about to marry an older, egotistic man whom Raskolnikov reads from day one as a future bad husband for his sensible, wise and beautiful sister. Meanwhile, Raskolnikov gets involved in the tragic end of the Marmeladov family. Marmeladov is a drunkard whom Raskolnikov befriends ina low-budget bar, where they have a conversation on morals that will be central to the philosophical background of the story. He dies and leaves her family broke. His wife is very near death from tuberculosis, and the eldest girl has been forced to become a prostitute, in spite of being an angelical and saintly girl.<br />So events unfold and the logical end arrives. The plot is great and it moves faster and faster, with tension reaching exasperating heights. The book is filled with unforgettable characters: the dark, troubled but in the end good Raskolnikov, a good guy with bad ideas; his mother and sister; the sinister Petrovich, who wants to be adored by the sister; the police detective, a great guy; Sonia, the saintly prostitute; and Svidrigailov, former boss and harasser of Raskolnikov's sister, a man so degenerate, perverse and evil.<br />Other reviewers are right that Raskolnikov's philosophy is a twisted and evil one, but some go so far as to say that this philosophy is espoused by Dostoevsky himself. I am convinced this is not the case. The novel clearly shows that moral relativism can only conduce to crime, tragedy, death, guilt and... punishment. In the best case, after the crime is committed, there is the hope of redemption through repent and love, as well as by the Christian values and faith. I think there is no doubt that, by every possible standard, this is one of the best pieces of literature ever penned. It has everything a masterpiece must have: a plot that hooks you up right from the start, deep, well-rounded characters. a dark moral and everything tightly knitted together by a master of the craft. Come stay a few days in this hotttest of summers in Petersburg.	2004-07-05
602761:US	49263512	RTKX3YSOXRKJ9	0060935502	897653726	Modern Times  Revised Edition: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Good he's not a professional	Paul Johnson is an historian, wether Ph.D. or not. He does his homework and researches well his subjects. But he's thankfully free of the cliches of the profession, and so he is brave and bold when it comes to assess the facts he's described. In this extremely useful and refreshing book, Johnson says things most historians are not willing to tell, or tell while blushing. The distinguishable truth of the last century is that the demise of several basic certainties, i.e. the existence of God, the absolute nature of morality, and the value of the inidividual, borught about only death, war, tragedy and the worst and most horrifying massacres of history, performed by the most perverse and distorted political regimes man has ever known. And you don't have to be a religious nut to believe this.<br />Johnson's history is great to read. It includes illuminating anecdotes and profiles of many of the main characters in the wonderful yet terrible century just finished. We get to peer through the mist of ideology and legend and see what kind of people ruled our world: pure evil people like Lenin (who couldn't stand peasants and workers), Stalin (a crazy whacko with a small soul and a big killing instinct), Hitler (ditto), Mussolini (another lunatic, only also stupid); Mao (a vulgar looney with an incomparable talent to come up with the most idiotic ideas, which only caused hunger and misery), the host of African dictators, which must have made their peoples deplore the day the hated Europeans left, and Latin American morons like Peron, who managed to destroy a first-class economy and transform his country into a poor state (and still they love him and the hooker whom he married).<br />There are also fascinating portraits of other, imperfect but less evil politicians of the century. I realized I knew absolutely nothing about people like Harding, Coolidge and Hoover. There is the frivolous and unlikable Roosevelt, the corrupt (and also frivolous) Kennedy, etc. Churchill comes up,of course, as an admirable and brave man, always a step ahead everybody else even when he made mistakes, and De Gaulle, an arrogant man but a good statesman.<br />You will hardly agree with everything Johnson says, but his book is always thought-provoking and interesting. This is and will remain an important book to read.	2004-07-05
602855:US	49263512	R2BIPYH5LIHYPO	0385721676	264457638	Oryx and Crake	Books	2	16	22	N	N	The author herself got tired	This is the first book I've read by Mrs. Atwood, so I can't compare it to her other work. Suffice it to say that it was not a compelling reading debut. \\"Oryx and Crake\\" is nothing: it's not science fiction simply because the \\"science\\" part could have been written by anyone who has no scientific background and has simply listened about scary fantasies like global warming and genetic manipulation. Both, of course, can be fascinating subjects, but here it's only cliches and commonplaces. It's also not a character study: Jimmy is sometimes compelling, but most of the times seems like a regular loser. Crake is never explored as a character, perhaps because he is like any other mad scientist so common in paperbacks and movies a la James Bond. But Oryx is the most absurd of the characters. What's with the child pornography story? I can imagine a very good novel written about the horrific world of child pornography and the human degradation it must imply, but the novel simply mentions the thing and doesn't give it any significance. It's not a thriller either. Certainly, what kept me reading was the interest to find out how the catastrophe came about, but in the end the author got bored or had to go to the supermarket, and it simply ended with some virus killing everybody, and we readers get nothing interesting about the process. An atomic bomb could have dropped from the sky and finished everything. Not recommended.	2004-07-05
673066:US	49263512	R1GCWP9OXO0GLZ	0809594706	283328506	The Secret Agent by Joseph Conrad, Fiction	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dark humor and a bleak prescience	For all the talk of the supposed &quot;difficulty&quot; of this novel, I found it to be one of the best construed and told that I have read lately. It goes well beyond a simple thriller or spy novel; it is an intense human drama in which the characters have real personalities. Verloc is a loser. He has been living, for the last eleven or so years, off the payments of a foreign embassy which employs him to spy and report on the activities of a terrorist cell, also composed of frustrated, useless, all-talk-no-action losers. Other reviewers have aptly described these characters.<br />Verloc lives also off the meager profits of a news store, which serves as cover up for his clandestine activities, ignored even by his family. This consists of his younger wife, Winny, her mother and her retarded brother Stevie, a sympathetic but hopeless young man.<br />As the novel opens, Verloc is in deep trouble. The new officers at the embassy are displeased at the results Verloc's work has achieved, and so one of them brutally warns him that the pay will stop if he doesn't produce at least one major act of terrorism, say, blow up the Greenwich observatory, an icon of modern faith in science. Verloc gets obviously dismayed at this order, for he is no terrorist at all, just a scumbag of an idler. I won't spoil the rest of the story up to the attack, but the resulting situation will show how coward these terrorists are (we hope none of them were as bold as other terrorists we know are) and how fragile Verloc's family relations are, especially in view of the terribly stupid action he commits.<br />This is a very dark tale. None of the characters are attractive, but they are exteremely well developed, and that's what counts. The humor used by Conrad is without concessions: for all its cruelty, I found the bombing scene a very funny one. Conrad makes hard fun of all these types who talk and talk about anarchy, the &quot;Revolution&quot;, ideology and their supposed love for humanity, a love conspicuously absent from their daily lives.<br />How pertinent, in these times, to have a great and darkly funny novel to taka a look at, now that the types have, sadly, passed into action.	2004-05-11
673179:US	49263512	ROLMYEK1WM6CS	2070251144	513362405	Ponce Pilate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful &quot;what if?&quot;	Just think about the potential consequences that could have been produced had Pontius Pilate decided to stand his ground and absolved Jesus. Would Christianity exist today? What would have happened without the Crucifixion? It is mind numbing.<br />Subtitled &quot;The dilemma of power&quot;, this short work present Pilate as a rather indolent man, fed up with all the petty fights of the Jews. He despises all the farisees and other religious leaders. And so this day there is here yet another holy man, this time called Jesus, who the leaders want dead because of his subversive message of love, compassion, and a kingdom which is not &quot;of this world&quot;. Pilate sees no reason whatsoever to put this man to death, since he seems to be rather peaceful, if a little weird. But he happens to be in a difficult political position, so he decides to consult his advisors, who tell him to accept the execution and wash his hands off the whole affair. Still undecided, he visits his wise friend Marduk, a man from Sumer, and he tells him the same, but for entirely different reasons. Marduk advises him to allow the execution, for that is the only way this new religion will be able to take root. In the end, Pilate decides not to allow for the Crucifixion.<br />Caillois only thinly depicts the incalculable consequences had this been the real decision of Pilate. As a counterpoint, the volume includes the apocryphal Gospels of Pontius Pilate and Nicodemus, very interesting. It is a pity this slim volume seems to have no English translation, since it sparkles a very strange idea: how would the world be without Christianity?	2004-05-11
678812:US	49263512	R21G25PIRN4END	0807120049	85913114	Rasero (Pegasus Prize for Literature)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fantastic even if flawed	I enjoyed very much this magnificent tale by Mexican author Francisco Rebolledo. It tells the story of a unique and likable character, the Marquis de Rasero, a Spanish nobleman who arrives in the Versailles court when he is only 16, as an assistant to the Spanish ambassador. Rasero is an enlightened, rich and strangely attractive man, who beds many women, both humble and aristocratic. Through his story we are witnesses to the development of the last decades of the XVIII century and the first decades of the XIX, from the heyday of the Illustration right down to the horrors of the French Revolution. Rasero befriends many of the most interesting (or disgusting) characters of that wonderful and turbulent age. Rebolledo's portraits of these people are definitely the strongest points in the novel. We get to know Voltaire in all his acerbic glory and wisdom, in his estate at Ferney, where he and Rasero sustain fascinating conversations about many a topic. We meet Diderot, the relentless promoter of the Encyclopedia and lifelong friend of Rasero, a brilliant, just and good man (with human flaws, of course), as well as his partner D'Alembert, an orphan with a bright mind and a weaker will. We also know Madame de Pompadour, the beautiful and intrigant mistress of Louis XV, also a friend of Rasero's. There's the chemist Lavoisier, the revolutionaries Danton and Robespierre, this last one a premonition of Lenin, Hitler and Stalin. The story is simply fascinating and perfectly well written (I hope the English translation does it justice). It has joyous moments, like Rasero's love for the widow of the Viceroy of Mexico, and depressing moments, like the coming of the French Revolution and the Terror. As I said, character development is in great shape here, the mark of great literature...<br />However, there is something else: Rebolledo introduces a narrative device apparently designed to give depth to the historical events of the age, by comparing them to the future horrors of theXX century. Whenever he reaches an orgasm (which happens quite a few times in the novel) he has visions of the future. He sees WWII, the space age, 1968, Vietnam, etc. he sees scientific and technological advance with a mix of hope and fear, for he sees very good and very bad things. Now, contrary to the reviewer from the Publishers Weekly posted in Amazon as editorial review, who wishes Rebolledo had bordered less on the historical and more on the fantastic, I deplore this artificial device. It wasn't necessary and it adds a bit of corniness to the novel. The point when Rasero \\"sees\\" the Tlatelolco massacre in Mexico City in 1968 is just plain ridiculous and it adds a touch of parochialism to the book.<br />But never mind. The good news is those visions get increasingly sparse as the story develops, and the book gains momentum and strength. I look forward to reading more of Rebolledo's works, as this one was truly good even with the flaw.	2004-05-06
762835:US	49263512	ROHNF0ZJ1DV26	0671722840	43217624	Richard III (The New Folger Library)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A real bad guy	This historical drama, not exactly accurate for all I know (but who cares, it's Billy) depicts one of the best bad guys in all literature, to the point of caricature (and this rhymes!). Richard III is the impersonation of ugliness and pure evil: he is a man both morally and physically malformed, who gives everything for the sake of a vain and insignificant moment of power. He is pure rancour enveloped in hypocrisy and treason. He kills his relatives, including his two child nephews, then he marries his rival's widow, and finally he gets what he deserves screaming: &quot;A horse! My kingdom for a horse!&quot;<br />&quot;Richard III&quot; is a wonderful satire; as always with WS, the dialogues are perfect and the action supreme. It is not intended to be real history, but a satire of ambition run amok, of the lonely obsession for power and of the depths of evil which humans can reach. It has humorous moments and it was, in its times, good politics, since Richard belonged to the predecessors in power of Queen Elizabeth's family . Another masterpiece by the Bard.	2004-03-02
762932:US	49263512	RDLVD24UY6UCA	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Deep South	This was my first approach to Faulkner, and a very satisfying one, though experts advise on NOT starting with this one, as it is one of the most complex and obscure of his novels. However hard to read, it is very rewarding, since Faulkner's prose is so intense, dark and realistic. Clue after clue, the reader puts together the pieces of a nightmarish puzzle, a story of ambition, sin, revenge, envy, hard work, disappointment and tragedy. Indeed, it reminds of a Greek tragedy, one that takes place during several decades, in the torrid scenery of the Yoknapatawpha county in the American Deep South. <br />The story is totally phantasmagoric; it is the account and the reflection of the diverse -and improbable- narrators, who imprint their own passions and longings as they build the story. The Sutpen saga is a journey of madness and perversion, close in its own way to Russian classical stories. Just as in Greek tragedy, the main character is Fate. The most disturbing aspect of this novel is the ambiguity which characterizes the narrators.<br />Thomas Sutpen is a man of humble origins in the Appalachians, a man who has suffered rejection and discrimination. But he is terribly strong-willed and so he travels to the South looking for fortune. He dreams of building an empire and a dynasty that will prevail and avenge him for his misfortunes. He arrives at Yoknapatawpha and buys some land, which he, by virtue of hard work, turns into an emporium. But he is also a dark and violent man, who rejects his first wife and son for having black blood in their veins, an action that will come back to haunt him.<br />The main narrator is Quentin Compson, the son of a neighboring family, who years later recounts the story to a roommate in Harvard, so building a parallel story of drama and death.<br />Even if it is a challenging read, it is much worth it, since Faulkner develops a very powerful narrative with a strong prose and a great gift to create moods and sceneries. It leaves you with the sensation that you have read an epic of grand proportions, a &quot;War and Peace&quot; with much war and little peace, without balls nor nobility.	2004-03-02
778287:US	49263512	RTEMWIB47QJSR	1564782689	831262428	The Hive	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The fellowship of the cafe	In &quot;The Hive&quot;, a most appropriate title, Cela recreates the everyday life of Madrid in the 1940's, centered around a small cafe and the life of its employees and clients. This place is the real protagonist of the novel, as we are witnesses to the small tragedies, triumphs, fights and passions of the people who live around it. It is verily a hive, an endless show of life with all its grandiosity, sordidness, pettiness and small acts of love and redemption. For those who know the modern-day Madrid, a cosmopolitan, prosperous place, it should be reminded that this book portrays the city right after the bitter Spanish Civil War, during the first days of Franco's dictatorship. Under Franco, Spain was a poor, provincial, backwards place where the most primitve form of Roman Catholicism was the religion of state, where the Catholic Church reigned supreme and where political repression was everywhere. Life wasn't easy in Spain in those days, and though this is not by any means a political novel, it is useful to remember this as we look at the lives of the many characters in this moving and excellent story.	2004-02-19
778358:US	49263512	R329CG9KI9O1SL	0226801063	521826774	The Peloponnesian War	Books	5	14	18	N	N	The first serious Western history	For all we know, Thucydides was the first real historian in the Western world, and possibly the first in the world, period. Unlike Homer (a poet, not a historian) and Herodotus, who mixed folk tales and myths with factual reports, Thucydides sticks to facts, with the advantage of having been a contemporary and even a participant himself in the Peloponnesian War. So it makes for a credible reading. But this book is also important for other reasons. This war terminated the glory of Athens and in fact precluded its development as an empire. The war between only two &quot;superpowers&quot; and their allies has also served to illustrate bipolar conflict, such as the Cold War, and there are even whole courses about this book to illuminate a bipolar situation.<br />This translation by master political thinker Thomas Hobbes (&quot;Leviathan&quot;) is not an easy read, yet it conveys the power of Thucydides's prose. Famous episodes of the war include, of course, Pericles's funeral oration, one of the best speeches ever recorded (if T. made it up, then he was one of the best speechwriters); the plague in Athens, a most unfortunate development for their side; rebellion in Corcyra; and the disastrous and worth-learning-from invasion of Sicily. One of the best history and politics books you can read.	2004-02-19
778918:US	49263512	R1UK8TUTOW1W2X	0393318664	837575213	Worldly Goods: A New History of the Renaissance	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wealth and commerce stimulate art and luxury	Although a good book with a valid and interesting point, the subtitle &quot;A New History of the Renaissance&quot; is too pretentious. Jardine convincingly argues that the astounding rebirth in the arts and in knowledge in general during the Renaissance was in god measure a byproduct of renewed trade, a commercial revival, and the lust for wealth and social recognition. Also very interesting is the demonstration that the artist as a solitary, bohemian genius who faces the world by expressing in his work his internal emotions, dates back only to the Romantic period. Before the late XVIII century, artists were basically employees or entrepreneurs eager to put their talents (oten as sublime as those of Michelangelo or Raffaello) at the service of the highest bidder or patron. It is a valuable book if only for the seldom-made link between the &quot;new rich&quot; and the progress of knowledge.	2004-02-19
779016:US	49263512	R2PV4JQMTQXOZ9	2226128905	290033187	Diotime et les lions	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A beautiful gem	It is a pity that this small book does not have (at least in Amazon) an English translation. It is really a small masterpiece of imaginative writing, rooted in Classical Greek literature. It is a tale of the initiation of a small girl who lives in one of the very Ancient tribes of pre-classical Greece. In the savage ritual of her tribe, in order to advance to womanhood, Diotime has to have her first fight against lions. Then it is time for her to get a husband, and along comes a young tribal chief, a sailor with no experience in the travails of landed life. He too must go through an initiation with lions in order to win the beautiful Diotime. They have to travel then with an old wise man, aboard his old ox, to look for the supreme lion, to confront and defeat him. The imagined world of very Ancient Greece is wonderfully depicted, and the story is infused with savagery and humanity. Less than a novel, it is almost a short story, but a very powerful one. Very recommended.	2004-02-19
779166:US	49263512	RSFFLV2R5BAD3	0375761225	82761703	Washington Square (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	See honey, Dad told you so	In the hands of any other writer, &quot;Washington Square&quot; could have ended up being a simple soap-opera, as its subject is typical of that genre. Catherine Sloper is a rich heiress to a wealthy physician. Her mother has died and she lives with Dad and a spinster of an aunt, an almost Emma Bovary-kind of woman, constantly devising romantic affairs where only the crude reality is happening. Far from the verbosity of other of his works, James uses here a cold, dispassionate approach of high irony and deep psychological insight. Character-building is at the top, more remarkably so for so common and risky a subject. Catherine is not beautiful, but she's destined to become very rich, and then along comes Morris Townsend, a young man from a &quot;good family&quot;, but poor and jobless. He is charming and good-looking, and of course shatters Catherine's small world apart with his gentlemanliness and his wit. Catherine falls in love with him, encouraged by the nave and romantic aunt, who plays intermediary to the lovers. But Dr. Sloper, Catherine's father, is a much more worldly man than the two women. He is cold and astute, and immediately suspects what Morris is after -his money. This is no romantic novel, dreams won't come true, but only the hardets reality. James has written here an acute psychological story, a most realistic one for anyone who wants to read and understand.	2004-02-19
779423:US	49263512	R54WIHMRP2WGC	0553214861	53359311	Babbitt (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The heart of Middle America	The action happens in a Midwest city called Zenith -your typical Cleveland, Cincinnatti or Minneapolis, during the 20's. The US are getting out of nation teenage and moving on to superpower status, which will come about after WWII. America is getting rich and the middle class which is its bakcbone is rapidly developing towards the crisis of the Great Depression and the further revival. Many guys are getting rich in the business-friendly country. George F. Babbitt is one of them, proud, ignorant and conformist. It is interstting to compare this novel to the ones by Scott Fitzgerald (the frivolity and wild life of the very rich) and to Steinbeck (the misery of the lowest clasees). Babbitt is the business man, the middle class self-made-man who really built what the US are today. The portrait, however, is not a celebration. Deep inside of him, Babbitt feels the hollowness, the vacuity of a life built around petty business success, a heartless social and family life, and the pretentiousness of his surroundings. At some point, Babbitt tries to rebel against society, but fails utterly, just as his friend Paul, a frustrated violinist turned roof-material salesman, who will end up in jail. It is the story of a man who tries to break up the mold of a rigid society, but is unable to do so for lack of will and spirit. <br />Although it is certainly unfair and absurd to think that all middle-class life is empty or unhappy, this is a powerful book in that it crudely depicts the dangers of conformity, of the &quot;quiet desperation&quot; of the life devoted solely to material success and social status, with no spiritual or intellectual life whatsoever. It should be read even more now, when American society is conforming to keeping the lowest common denominator in social life, and where mediocrity is rampant in the popular arts and entertainment.	2004-02-19
779441:US	49263512	R1FQQKUVW0KS2X	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Disaster and the human spirit	This is a a magnificent novel from a wise, understanding and compassive writer. The story is simple: the city of Oran is stricken by a terrible (and metaphorical) plague spreaded by rats. As soon as it is universally acknowledged, the inhabitants start trying to survive, both physically and emotionally. But each one does it their way, often hanging on to the past which is all they have left in the face of the hideous present and the very uncertain future.<br />The main character is Dr. Rieux, who takes charge of organizing the medical response. He is helped by a curious and moving character, Grand, a man who is trying to write a novel but gets stuck rewriting forever the first sentence, always remembering a lost love and growing to be resigned to his future. There is Cottard, who enjoys the odd situation created by the plague, after trying to kill himself: it seems the plague has given him something meaningful to live for. And Rambert, the foreign journalist who tries time and again to escape the city, only to be deterred by his conscience. The female presence is notoriously scarce. The tone is apparently cold and distant, but it is written with a mastery which gives us a glimpse of the humanity of the author. It's hard and real, and the human spirit in the face of such a disaster shines through.<br />Interestingly enough, this novel seems to contradict Camus's manifested existentialism, such as the one portrayed in &quot;The Stranger&quot;. Strange that an existentialist would write a novel where he seems very clearly to send the message that life exists and is important, that it has a meaning, even if obscure for us mortals, but that somehow it is valuable and deserves to be preserved even by sacrifice. Camus seems to have grown up by the time he wrote this great parable.	2004-02-19
779505:US	49263512	R38ZA1XKGT9XDI	0521484278	803994604	Birth of the Leviathan: Building States and Regimes in Medieval and Early Modern Europe	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Illuminating and solid	This book contains a great historical analysis of the building up of nation-states, from the dissolution of the Western Roman Empire unitl the French Revolution. Ertman classifies the upcoming states into four different types of regime and origins: patrimonialist absolutism (Spain, France, Portugal and the Italian states); bureaucratic absolutism (Denmark and the German states); patrimonialist constitutionalism (Hungary and Poland); and bureaucratic constitutionalism (Sweden and Great Britain).<br />Ertman defines as determining factors of the type of regime: 1) the timing in the emergence of geopolitical pressures, which forced states to recruit and finance armies (the earlier, the more patrimonialist); 2) the kind of local government, centralized or participative; 3) the kind of assembly or parliament, territorial or estamental; and 4) the existence or not of large-scale state-building efforts during the Middle Ages.<br />This is a deep book about how the nation-state came to exist the way we know it. It is a fundamental tool to understand where this political form of organization comes from, especially now that both local and multinational forces are putting it into question as to its future. Ertman describes with precision the forces that shaped the nation-state, and now it would be very interesting to read someone who has an explanation for the forces that are seemingly tearing it apart.	2004-02-19
791133:US	49263512	R2WVQ86LC1UK5E	0142437301	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fleeing from God himself	In what has to be one of the best-written novels of all times, Greene tells us the story of a nameless priest, running away from himself, from God and from fascist authorities in 1930's Mexico. A little background: in the 20's and 30's, Mexico suffered a civil war concerning the repression or outright prohibition of religious cults. The war was mainly concentrated in central-western Mexico, but curiously enough the place where the repression against Catholics was harshest was Tabasco. Tabasco is a southern state, only recently developed as a result of its huge reserves of oil and gas. It is all jungle and swamps. Back in the 30's it was really a dreadful place to live. A governor called Tomas Garrido completely banned not only the public practice of Catholic rites, but the very existence of the religious cult in the state. To this end, he formed armed bands called \\"the Red Shirts\\", which searched for priests in order to force them to get married or be shot.<br />Greene's novel concerns this state of affairs, and his nameless \\"hero\\" is THE last priest in the state. The cops are looking for him; he is running away. That in itself makes for a good tale, but of course, Greene being a truly great novelist, \\"The Power and the Glory\\" goes to a higer level by depicting a man consumed by doubt and guilt, a lone soul who is running away from cruel atheists but also from his own conscience. He feels guilt for having been called a \\"whiskey priest\\" and for having fathered a daughter whom he loves desperately, in spite of the child's despise for him. The priest wanders around, hiding from the authorities and trying to reach the border with Chiapas, where the persecution was much lighter. It is really a travel through an outer and an inner hell.<br />Greene displays all his mastery here, to dig in the soul of this troubled and tormented man, to depict the savage scenery with no Romanticism whatsoever about it. A barely inhabited jungle-swamp is one of the most hostile environmentsyou can think of. Not a single word is gratuitous, the prose is one of the most controlled and unsentimental I've ever read. <br />Of course, the tale is full of Christian allegories and metaphors, from the Judas-like peasant trying to sell the priest, to teh dead child and others. It is no sermon, though. The author is never intrusive: he's just a voice telling a desperate, tragic and illuminating story, well beyond politics or religion. Most recommended.	2004-02-10
824557:US	49263512	R3QCWLXBDFSGFP	0140441069	874869418	Three Tales (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The progression of Christianity -or maybe not-.	Who knows what was going through the mind of this most enigmatic of modern writers, Monsieur Flaubert, when he came up with these stories? Reviewers have speculated about the only common thread that could link these three extremely different tales: Christianity and what it has meant to the people in different historical times. Each tale is completely different in approach and style from the other two.<br />&quot;A simple heart&quot; is easily the best of the three, in fact a masterpiece of Flaubertism, that is, a subtly ironic and totally dispassionate and realistic account of some provincial character. Felicite is a &quot;simple heart&quot;, a woman of miserable origins who spends her life in servitude, contemplating the years go by, each one identical to the next. Felicite has a simple faith in God, unquestioning, unphilosophic, the kind of faith every priest dreams about for his flock. The tale is perfectly written, utterly sad and desolate, but being written by Flaubert, there's a cold irony beneath. Some people think this tale represents Christianity as it came to be in Modern times (XIX century).<br />&quot;The Legend of St. Julian Hospitator&quot; is a very strange tale of sin and redemption -the Medieval way. Julian is born rich, but he's a cruel man, fond of killing animals. He has no mercy in his heart. After a strange prophecy which he thinks has been fulfilled, Julian flees home and wanders around for many years, until he finds love. But he will sin again and ruin his life for his impiety. The end is a mystic and chilling one. Some people think this tale represents Christianity as lived by people in the Middle Ages.<br />&quot;Herodias&quot;, is a cinematographic tale which tells the story of John the Baptist's beheading. It is picture after picture of action. The central character is Herod, puppet king of Judea. He's having a hard time watching his numerous enemies camped outside his palace, dealing with the Roman envoy, placating the Jewish priests andwondering what to do with the prisoner he has in a dungeon -John. Then everybody shows up and a party begins. There, his lover's daughter, Herodias, will ask for something from him. Some people think this is the social context of the beginnings of Christianity.<br />Make your own conclusions: is Flaubert giving us a history lesson? Or savagely attacking Christianity and mocking it? Or simply depicting the different ways Christianity has been lived through the centuries? Or none of the above?	2004-01-16
825912:US	49263512	R3J0IX8QMIKY4W	0192839411	817020183	Theogony, Works and Days (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The Ancient Greek's handbook	&quot;Theogony&quot; is one of, if not &quot;the&quot;, original sources of Greek mythology. Hesiod tells us the full genealogy and origins of the Greek gods, and how the hegemony of Zeus was established after bitter fights and prolific intercourse with godesses and human females. Perhaps the most impressive part of this poem is the story about the god Typhoon. Hesiod depicts a horrific set of disasters that happened to the Earth, with Typhoon apparently being an unimaginable electric storm. Scholars like Immanuel Velikovsky have taken this episode as proof that many centuries ago, Venus and Mars, then wandering cosmic bodies, came very close to each other in a location near the Earth, which presumably caused our planets rotation to stop, with the following earthquakes, electric storms and the like. In fact, reading that passage by Hesiod strongly seemed to me to be the writing of very old memories of a defining catastrophe that left an indelible mark on human memory. Be that true or not, the poem is very powerful.<br />&quot;Works and Days&quot; is a very different story. After Hesiod's father died, his apparently indolent brother Perses tried to rob him of part of the inheritance. We all know how bitter fights among siblings can be, especially about inheritances. So Hesiod decided to write a book to teach his brother some lessons, beginning with a little history and theology, and then some practical advice on how to make a decent living by hard work and honesty. The result is a simply wonderful account of some important myths, like the ages through which man has passed (Golden, Silver, Heroic, Bronze and our own), as well as Pandora's myth. He also tells us about Prometheus, the Christ-like figure of the Greeks. After that, Hesiod tells us how a Greek farmer should plan his activities for the year, with delicious depictions of the seasons and very concrete information about their way of life. <br />It is a very pleasant experience to go down to the very sourcesof our culture, especially when written in Hesiod's light, brief and humorous way. A very old masterpiece whhich is very important for how much of it we have carried to the present day.	2004-01-15
826300:US	49263512	RQOB07Y8GCLNO	0156013053	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good story for sea-lovers	I have always loved stories related to the sea, and so this book appealed to me from the start. The premise is good: a grounded sailor develops a quick crush on a mysterious blonde he encounters at a maritime objects auction in Barcelona. He goes after her in Madrid and discovers she is looking for a sunken XVIII century ship, which should be buried under the sea outside the Mediterranean Spanish coast. And, she happens to be in need of someone with time and deep knowledge of the seas. Coy, the sailor, signs for the deal, not least because by now he is madly in love with her, Tangier. But it happens that there is someone else in search for the enigmatic ship, this time a professional treasure-hunter from Gibraltar, a man who has a very dangerous sidekick, an Argentinian ex-torturer. Coy recruits his old buddy, the Pilot, to take them in his boat and go looking for the ship. Why this ship attracts so many attention I will not spoil for you, but it is an interesting and exciting tale. Some reviewers complain about the long discussions on things maritime, but I tended to like them. <br />The book's strong points: the link to an ancient adventure and the historical background. Perez Reverte does his homework and is very good at surrounding his tales with historical roots. That gives the present-day adventure an epic aura. The political intrigue surrounding the historical event is another thing Perez Reverte likes to do and is good at. One further strong point that should be remarked, since it gives the book much of its appeal, is the author's ability to vividly depict places. Of course he has the advantage of locating his story in beautiful towns of Southern Spain, which hardly need any embellishment, and especially in Cartagena, where Perez Reverte himself was born and obviously knows very well. Plus, the story is ingenious.<br />Unfortunately, the book has one weak point, but one that is crucial in distinguishing a good novel from a great work of art. In fact, it is the cornerstone of great literature: the characters. The best-crafted character is the main one, Coy, a likable loser and basically a good and brave man. It is obvious, and the author makes no secret of it, that this character was inspired by Conrad's Lord Jim, but without the tragic, Shakespearean overtones. But most of his expressions are cliches. Nevertheless, I think every reader will root for Coy. The woman, on the other hand, is totally unlikeable. She's not even sexy. Another reviewer here was right when he thought of her as a spoiled little brat. I didn't want her to win. As a character, shes flat as flat can be. The Pilot is commonplace tough-but-good-guy, a wise old man. And the bad guys seem to jump right out of a Disney movie. The boss would be a wolf and the Argentinian a bad rat. They are the weakest point of the book. <br />Anyway, it's a good entertainment but don't look here for the great literary achievement.	2004-01-15
828772:US	49263512	R3EZ2LU333RJHQ	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	5	8	9	N	N	What would you do?: characters at the limit	Iain Pears uses a single region (Provence, around Avignon) and a common thread (a manuscript on philosophy)to illustrate three different moments in Western civlization and the lives of three different men who had to make difficult moral choices. It happens that each historical moment is one when civilization, the whole order of society, is about to crumble down in a great catastrophe, all of which makes the heroes' choices all the more painful and exasperating.<br />Pears skillfully interweaves the three stories: in the Fifth century, Manlius Hippomanes, a wealthy and educated Gallic Roman and a community leader, is faced with hard choices regarding the impending conquest of Rome by the Northern barbarians. What should he do? Fight a lost battle just for honor's sake, or negotiate with the oncoming forces to try to save what he can from Roman civilization? Not easy to decide.<br />In the Fourteenth century, Olivier de Noyen is a young man working for a Cardinal at the Papal court, then settled in Avignon. He has found Manlius's manuscript, \\"The Dream of Scipio\\" and is studying it with a wise Jew with whose servant he falls in love. As the great Plague sets in, political intrigues start boiling, with Olivier's master a prominent figure. At some point Olivier will have to decide between remaining loyal to his master and being a part in the unfair condemnation of Jews as the cause of the Plague, or changing his time's history for the sake of love and fairness, betraying his master.<br />And Julien Barneuve, a scholar, is forced after the Nazi invasion of France to decide between resisting the invaders by force with no chance of winning, or collaborate with them in order to civilize them and save French culture. It won't be easy as he is desperately in love with a Jewish woman.<br />I think Pears has done a very well rounded work, keeping the three stories different, but tied together by common themes and situations. Each one of the three main characters is different from the other two, all of them intelligent but with distinctive qualities and shortcomings, as well as with differing stances in life in terms of power, status and money. Each one of them has a love story with a woman with whom there is no chance of a normal loving relationship, for different reasons. In each story the Jews are threatened (while never degenerating into a simple pamphlet).<br />Each story is very beautiful, moving and exciting, and Pears manages to keep a near perfect symmetry between the three of them, in terms of space, tone, and quality of writing. Pears is also very good at depicting, in an economical yet rich way, landscapes, towns, garments and people. More than just a novel, I think this is one of the best books written in the last years, at least among those I have read. It is erudite yet never pedantic; complex but at the same time clear. But the bottom line is the stories are good and cleverly intertwined.	2004-01-13
879568:US	49263512	RR5Q7H8MXKXQV	0140182829	623789051	Le Grand Meaulnes (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Le Grand romantic obsession	This little novel is the kind of literature that has everything to be appealing and unforgettable. It is set in one of the most beautiful parts of France, a distant, remote land of forests, lagoons and castles. It recounts a tale of childhood and adolescence, a time of innocence long lost and of hazy adventures in the long evenings and vacations of school times. It involves a glimpse of total bliss and the dream of permanent and absolute happiness. It verges on the border between reality and fantasy.<br />The story is told by Francois Seurel, the son of the schoolmaster in a small, secluded town in la Sologne (Central France). One day a new kid comes to study and live with Francois's family. He is called Le Grand (the great) Meaulnes. He's a natural leader and an independent kid who one day steals a carriage in order to go pick up Francois's great parents. He gets lost in the woods and loses the carriage, which forces him to wander around the countryside where, after some time, he comes to an ancient domain, a big, decaying house where a huge party is about to begin. He notices everybody seems to be welcome and after a nap in a bedroom he finds old-style clothes seeminlgy ready for him to wear. So he does and he goes to the party. At some point he meets &quot;the&quot; girl, the most beautiful living being he's ever seen, and of course he falls madly in love with her. But she's mysterious and they will only have chance to exchange names. The day after, the party ends on enigmatic circumstances and Meaulnes gets a ride home at night, and so he is unable to figure out the way back to the house. The rest of his life will be one long and tragic search for the place and the girl of his dreams, and to reveal more would be unkind to potential readers.<br />As with basically all other books that can aspire to immortality, this one can be read in many levels. You can simply take the story at face value and appreciate it as a great tale, but for me it was impossible not to glimpse some kind of deep symbolism in it, something about the nostalgia for innocence lost, for the irretrievable days of our youth, for the kind of love that is hard to feel later on in life (for good and bad). There is also something about that old notion of being careful with what you wish for, lest you achieve it. The book borders around the realistic, the romantic and the gothic, and it has its touches of magic which are highlighted by the incredible scenery in which the story takes place. It is probably one of the greatest tales ever told and it sure will agitate in the reader their own memories of countryside vacations and that little girl one once saw, fell in love wiht, but was unable to see again (or maybe yes, but in less romantic circumstances). It achieves what great literature does: sparkling something valuable, in this case totally bittersweet, inside the reader's brain, and it is only possible to regret Fournier's early death in that stupidest of massacres, WWI.	2003-12-02
885333:US	49263512	RHCPDVFFCCJEL	0140268863	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Powerful original adventure	So much literature has stemmed from this very Ancient poem-turned-novel and it is easy to see why. Western culture is soaked in these original myths, heroes, women, Gods. The imagery of the Odyssey is in our common language, in our everyday &quot;odysseys&quot; to get back home after work, surrounded by modern equivalents of the sirens (bars), driving between Scylla and Charybdis (thiefs, police, beggars). Some people indeed follow the Penelope policy, unraveling by night what they thread by day. This myth is within the marrow of our culture but it is not a heavy, ponderous philosophy of a book (little Ancient literature is, although for strange reasons people are afraid to approach it. Many modern novels are much more insufferable adn pedantic than Ancient tales).<br />Deep down, &quot;The Odyssey&quot; is simply a great tale, an outrageous adventure in the Mediterranean. The storyline is well-known: after figthing in the long Trojan war, Odysseus (Ulysses) starts his trip back home, in the company of his men. The trip will in fact last ten years of dangerous and often tragic adventures. At the beginning of the tale, we are introduced to Odyseeus's house in Ithaca, from where he has been missing for 20 years, and where his wife Penelope and his son Telemachus anxiously (but increasingly disheartened) await his return. The house is full of men who want to convince Penelope that Odysseus is most likely dead and will never return, so she has to choose a new husband. The situation is getting to be unmanageable, and so Telemachus decides to go visit some of his father's old friends and see if he can get any news. Meanwhile, Odysseus is set free from the island of the nymph Calypso and starts his final voyage home. And when he gets there, the unscrupulous men courting his wife will see what insulting a Greek hero is like...<br />The tale is so much fun the reader tends to overlook a striking fact: it is structured like a modern novel, even in a cinematographic technique: it starts where the hero is not, proceeds to the almost-end of his journey, then goes back in a long -and fascinating- flashback where all the famous parts happen (the loto-eaters, the Cyclop,the Lestragons, the Sirens, Scylla and Charybdis, the cows of the Sun), and then finally it proceeds to the arrival of Odysseus to Ithaca, and his final revenge.<br />As a sequel to the Illiad, it is very different, both in content and in style. The Gods intervene less here than in the Illiad (except for Arthemise, always looking after the hero). Homer's skills in depicting islands, people, houses and the sea are simply impressive, and the action proceeds always quickly. It is almost a thriller, full of beautiful images and prose. Don't you ever think of this as a &quot;classic&quot;: it's just a wonderful tale, one that has inspired all sorts of artists for 2,700 or so years now. It has endured because it is very good. It's fun and it's beautiful (but of course it's very violent -it's Greek). One of the best stories any guy (whoever he was and whether it was one or many involved) has ever come up with. There's little out there more worth your time and attention.: it starts where the hero is not, proceeds to the almost-end of his journey, then goes back in a long -and fascinating- flashback where all the famous parts happen (the loto-eaters, the Cyclop,the Lestragons, the Sirens, Scylla and Charybdis, the cows of the Sun), and then finally it proceeds to the arrival of Odysseus to Ithaca, and his final revenge.<br />As a sequel to the Illiad, it is very different, both in content and in style. The Gods intervene less here than in the Illiad (except for Arthemise, always looking after the hero). Homer's skills in depicting islands, people, houses and the sea are simply impressive, and the action proceeds always quickly. It is almost a thriller, full of beautiful images and prose. Don't you ever think of this as a &quot;classic&quot;: it's just a wonderful tale, one that has inspired all sorts of artists for 2,700 or so years now. It has endured because it is very good. It's fun and it's beautiful (but of course it's very violent -it's Greek). One of the best stories any guy (whoever he was and whether it was one or many involved) has ever come up with. There's little out there more worth your time and attention.	2003-11-28
885412:US	49263512	RQJP9B4TE8T2N	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Confused about this one	It's been very hard to come up with a number of stars for this book, but ultimately I have decided on three. I did like it and certainly Russo can write. However, there are problems with it. Reading other reviews here, I am mystified by the amount of people who found \\"laugh-out-loud\\" passages. There are certainly moments of humor, but overall the book is utterly depressing. All of the characters' lives are destroyed and pathetic, the atmosphere of Empire Falls is one of pure decadence and sadness. Miles Roby, the main character, is a good and decent man, and his daughter Tick is an attractive character, but Miles also lacks courage to an unnerving point and Tick is simply given too little space in the book to fully come to life. The rest of the bunch is totally unlikable, including the insufferable ex-wife and her fianc&eacute;, the repulsive Max Roby (a man you wouldn't sit beside to for all the world), the gay priest and the demented priest, the corrupt policeman and his stupid son, etc.<br />Having said that, I must admit that the book is well written. Russo does have an eye for detail and depiction, as well as a subtle sense of humor which unfortunately gets lost in the total decadence of this town. The book flows slowly but pleasantly for 80% of it, and what little plot there is unravels quickly in the last 50 pages or so. I had the feeling it was a rushed ending, and that the writer tried to finally put a note of optimism in his story, but it was not very convincing.<br />This book is not a waste of time by any means. It's an entertaining read and you can see that Russo is talented. The only other book of his that I have read is \\"Straight Man\\", a book I liked more even if it is considered the weakest of the Russo corpus. I think that, on the contrary, \\"Straight Man\\" is a better book, which unfortunately is considered a minor work just for being \\"funny\\". Well, \\"Empire Falls\\" is certainly not funny. It is very depressing and the mood is constantly one of impending doom, even if the ending runs otherwise.oom, even if the ending runs otherwise.	2003-11-28
895087:US	49263512	R1UYBRXIRF58NK	1410207668	83281301	Letters from the Country and the Town of Fishermen, Farmers, Parasites, and Courtesans	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny, informative and bawdy	It was really nice to discover this gem of a little book in a collection of Greek-Latin literature. Although since I was a child I've read my share of this Ancient kind of books, I had never even heard or read about Alciphron, a writer about whose life we know close to nothing. I understand that these letters are fictional, although some of them talk about real persons (Menander, Epicure and others). Even so, they have the power to put you right there several centuries BC, being witness to the daily life of Ancient Greeks. The first thing that comes to my mind is how much they resemble our own Western lifestyles, so much that it is easy to see that we are truly the children of Greece in many respects. Apparently, life was hard for Greeks, but much happier than for most other Ancient cultures, whether it was a nicer weather or specific cultural traits (or, most likely, the combination of both). The letters are wide-ranging in the emotions and situations they depict. Some are sad, some are happy, some talk about gruesome facts, and some other simply reflect common life. There is much interaction between city and countryside, between the well-to-do and the utterly poor. Which is interesting, since differences in access to technology were much less wide than today, but social and status differences were probably larger, and decreed by birth.<br />Farmers, fishermen, parasites and courtesans tell their stories in a straightforward manner, men and women alike. The Greeks are revealed to us as a funny, cynical, outspoken and expressive people. They are sincere, mischievous, hypocritical, tender and passionate as we are today. Some of the courtesans' letters border on the raunchy, telling about orgies, jealousy and lover-theft. All of them are interesting, both for the casual reader or for those who want to have more knowledge about what life in old Greece was like more than two thousand years ago.	2003-11-19
897073:US	49263512	R3ENYFUHMKE6PE	0151005729	471726665	The Same Sea	Books	2	9	19	N	N	A disappointment	I am usually not mean-spirited to books I read. I always try to find something of value, but it is sometimes simply impossible. This is the case with \\"The Same Sea\\". I found it lacking in character development and plot, which leaves us only with language as the possible source of aesthetic achievement. I admit some of the poetic passages were beautiful in a subtle way, but that wasn't enough to win my attention. If Mr. Oz wanted to write a poem, he should have done so explicitly, without disguising it as a novel. The \\"plot\\" is simple yet unappealing: an old Israeli man loses his wife to death; his son becomes depressed and  travels to Tibet, Bangladesh and other lands to meditate and overcome his grief. His girlfriend is cheated by a film producer, loses her money and moves in with Albert, his boyfriend's father. Then she sleeps with her botfriend's best friend. That's it.<br />I didn't find any of the characters interesting, whether good or bad. They just ruminate about their problems, but there's not really a plot or some interaction that becomes appealing, at least for this reader. I'm not a prude at all, but a story that centers on the sexual lust of an old widow for his son's girlfriend is not terribly interesting (maybe Nabokov could have made it so). She's kind of cruel walking around the house with a towel for all clothes, as well as giving him glimpses of young flesh. Naughty girl and dirty old man. The son's reflections on his travels weren't much illuminating either. He made me remember the main character in Somerset Maugham's \\"The Razor's Edge\\", but without the vitality and passion for knowledge that characterized him. All in all, a disappointment of a book.	2003-11-18
904670:US	49263512	R3C77N1F4LKKTW	0226805328	857677473	Democracy in America	Books	5	138	145	N	Y	A whole course on political science	It has been said that this is the best book about the US and the best book about democracy. Having just read it, I can say it is even more. Tocqueville reflects not only on the US or on democracy, but his comparative approach sheds light on the Europe of his times and before, on the nature of aristocracy and the inevitable democratic revolution which was on its way across the civilized world. Tocqueville was a realistic aristocrat, sometimes nostalgic for the &quot;greatness&quot; of yesterday, but bearing no illusions whatsoever about the feasibility of stopping democratic change. So, he sets to find out what is it about democracy that can work, and what its inherent risks are. And he decides to tour the grandest democratic experiment ever attempted by Man: the United States.<br />What Tocqueville finds is a unique nation. Unlike most other nascent states in history, the English who moved to America found a huge land, practically devoid of people (and in those cases where it was inhabited, they were easily killed), where everybody could be a landowner. This, plus the particular ethics of the Puritans, the glorifiaction of hard work, thrift and virtuosity, provided for a prosperous, practical people (not necessarily tolerant, especially in religious affairs). Far away from kings and emperors, Americans developed a communal democracy. So far so good, Tocquevill really admires the basic qualities of the US.<br />But this book is not a long eulogy of democracy. Tocqueville admits democracy is the best way to govern a modern society, but that does not mean he thinks it's perfect or endlessly beneficial. Democracy DOES poses risks: among others, the tyranny of the majority, the mediocrity towards which it impels mores; the loneliness of the individual, lost amidst an endless, faceless crowd.<br />Even for some minor mistaken attempts at prophecy, Tocqueville's prescience adn long-term vision is simply astonishing. He was right about the merits of democracy; he was rightabout its shortcomings. If he would come to the present-day US, he would probably find much to celebrate (prosperity, technological progress, widespread access to education, health, etc), and much to deplore, precisely the mediocrity of democratic tastes (think music, literature, cinema, art. etc).<br />Tocqueville's culture and knowledge are impressive, even more so considering how young he was when he travelled in the US. His style is conversational and straightforward, assertive but modest. The reader will find here a whole lot of wisdom and subjects to think about and it is simply one of the best books on politics and society ever written, one that is relevant todat as it was many years ago.	2003-11-11
936661:US	49263512	RFJ7DFALUB7VV	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The ethics of responsibility	I have recently re-read this always useful classic on politics. Without hypocrisies, Machiavelli recommends to the Prince that he resigns from pursuing the utopia of what &quot;should be&quot; and he elaborates on his recommendations with the aim put on political responsibility: to govern is, before everything else, to keep power. He who can not maintain his power is not fit to govern. He who follows a nave and idealist morality, is ignoring the rules of power (which were certainly very harsh in his day), and so he can't govern well, since he will make mistake after mistake. <br />Of course this book should be read according to its historical background, but its deep message is still valid today, even for all of its rudenness: politics has its own morality, the morality of prudence and of responsibility. Man is NOT born good. A nave ruler who is not aware of this and who does nothing to prevent treason is incurring in a major political responsibility, for he will put the State at great risk of falling in the hands of selfish and plain bad people.<br />Machiavelli's book is not about political theory, but political practice. Much of his specific courses of action are impracticable today (or maybe not that much). Now that we have democracy, human rights and worldwide surveillance of rulers, methods are different, but the principle of poliical responsibility is as valid as it was five hundred years ago.	2003-10-17
937300:US	49263512	R3T2T6XZBPYM4T	067978330X	289712823	Anna Karenina (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good love and bad love	This is a splendid novel about the intertwined lives of a group of noble Russians by the middle XIXth century, most of them related to each other. It could also have been titled \\"Konstantin Levin\\", since this character is as important as Anna. Levin is the best rounded of all the characters, and in fact he is the center of the tale. His life, torments and thoughts are the central thread of the narration, which has a lot of cholateral stories: the Anna-Alexei Karenin-Vronsky triangle; Anna's husband drama; the fatal and sad love story between Anna and Vronsky; and the life of Stepan Oblonsky, Anna's brother (the most amusing one)and his wife Kitty, the sister of Dolly.<br />Without exaggeration, each character is a fully developed human being, flesh and blood. Tolstoy manages to probe deep inside everyone's soul. There are no stereotypes, but you could depict each one. Oblonsky is a merry, good-natured but irresponsible and frivolous man. Vronsky is kind of a pervert but ultimately a good guy in need of some moral education. Anna is a hypersensitive woman, but tormented, selfish and hungry for passion. And Levin, well, Levin is a profoundly sensitive man, tormented not by the hunger for passion but by metaphysical questions, eager to find the good life. His long walks through his big estate, his work with the peasants and his musings on life are some of the most beautiful passages in this beautiful novel.<br />I won't spoil anything, just read it and find a great tale of good love and bad love and how it all turns out. It is one of the peaks of world literature, along with some other works by Tolstoy, like \\"War and Peace\\" and \\"Hadji Murad\\".	2003-10-17
938638:US	49263512	R3935XI5HBSYS	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Total indifference is not the way to live	This is one of the most disturbing books you can ever read. Basically, it can be interpreted from two extreme points of view: either you think that Meursault is a man minding his own business and focus on how people who don't even know him judge him morally, or you think that he is a hollow man, devoid of any feelings and so barely human. I personally think that the first stance is almost impossible: Meursault DOES fail to care for his deceased mother who dies completely lonely in a nursery, and he kills a man without feeling any remorse. Plus, he goes to bed with women without giving any further thought to the experience. I am not a person proned to moralizing about other people's lives, but here it is impossible not to be astonished at the total lack of empathy Meursault has towards his fellow human beings, including his mother. <br />Don't get me wrong: the book is not only a gem but also a very important one to be read, especially by young persons. It is very good that someone took the effort to face this modern attitude which many young people have been compelled to adopt during the last two centuries. One could go on rambling about how the modern world has dehumanized us, how individualism has depraved us from a sense of community, etc. etc. In the end it all comes down to the human being and the moral courage we need in order to survive this admittedly hard world. The fact that the story is so appalling shouldn't discourage anyone from picking up this short but important book and give it a minute of reflection. Are you living your life the Meursault way?	2003-10-15
938824:US	49263512	R1YWGL6RE8CZX7	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	4	7	9	N	N	It's hard to love when you're at war	Of all of Hemingway's works, I had only previously read &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot; (a masterpiece) when I started this novel. It is a crude, dispassionate and cold testimony of the life of an American soldier on the Italian front in WWI. Henry, an ambulance driver just like Hemingway himself was in the same theater of war, gets wounded and is taken to a hospital where he spends several months. He eventually falls in love -thinly at first- with the British nurse who takes care of him.<br />But falling in love in the middle of a war is not an easy thing. Henry's psyche is, understandably, shattered by the devastating experience and he tries hard not to fall too deep for the nurse. But love is also a strong passion and at some point he decides to desert the Army in order to pursue his love. The ending is moving and at the same time disturbing, showing how war kills even those who survive.<br />In spite of being well written, I take a star away from the book for one single reason: even though I can understand the stressing circumstances under which this love develops, thorughout the novel I felt that Henry was still a shallow man, without the resolve to take a firm course of action. Neither he nor the nurse are very likable, and the novel is permanently permeated by that sense of nothingness, by the nefarious existentialism that influenced much of last century's literature and which, I understand, is a characteristic of much of Hemingway's work. The novel is good but character-development fails and in the end, it is just a sad, crude story. Compare this with the manly, deeply moving attitude of &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot;'s main and only human character towards life and you'll appreciate that Hemingway was capable of a better tale.	2003-10-15
945197:US	49263512	RTC6MMI6VVJV2	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A book full of life	This novel covers fifteen years in the lives of several noble families from early XIX-century Russia, at the time of the Napoleonic wars. More than having a plot, it is a vivid depiction of life in Moscow and Saint Petersburg, as well as in the different theaters of war. First we are introduced to the families and their daily lives, but very soon some of the young members have to go to war, and that has a definitive inlfuence on the developments that follow. Summarizing the book is hard to do in a short space, since it is precisely its huge epic scope which constitutes its main charm. Beyond few and scattered comments by Tolstoy on his view of history, illustrating but not very useful, since he has a determinstic approach, the book is pure action, in a cinematographic way. The book is long, but every chapter is very brief, and you change scenes frequently as you read it. It is by no means a hard read, especially after you learn to discriminate between important and less-important characters. Some reviewers have complained that characetrs go in and out of the story without much explanation, but I think that is one of its main strengths: in our lives, people enter and leave the scene and we don't always know where they come from or what becomes of them after they leave our lives.<br />The literary aspect itself is of the highest quality: even in translation, you can see that Tolstoy was a master of the written word. The characters are fully rounded, complete personalitites, at least the most important ones. None of them is entirely good or bad, likable or unlikable. Like all of us, they have their moments. Tha main ones are: Natasha Rostov, a lovely yet troubled woman, who goes through a lot of changes in her life. Sometimes she is a young beauty, full of life and splendor. Then she is a total fool, then a sad woman and in the end... well, no spoilers here. Another one is Pierre Besukhoff, a strange man, insecure and intelligent, who also goes through many adventures and misadventures. Andrei Bolkonsky and his family are antoher point of focus. If character development is the mark of great writing, then this is one of the best books you can read.<br />Tosltoy alternates between war and peace to show us the many different faces of life, and he does so with masterful skills. There are many hilarious moments, but also many tragic, sad and gloomy ones. Favorite scenes that come to my mind are, among many others: the Rostov kids' Chrsitmas holiday celebration in their rural estate, driving in their carriages on the snow, having fun and feeling love; Pierre's experiences in the frontline; the public execution outside the Kremlin, etc.<br />Certainly one of the highest points in world literature, it is a very entertaining novel full of life.and misadventures. Andrei Bolkonsky and his family are antoher point of focus. If character development is the mark of great writing, then this is one of the best books you can read.<br />Tosltoy alternates between war and peace to show us the many different faces of life, and he does so with masterful skills. There are many hilarious moments, but also many tragic, sad and gloomy ones. Favorite scenes that come to my mind are, among many others: the Rostov kids' Chrsitmas holiday celebration in their rural estate, driving in their carriages on the snow, having fun and feeling love; Pierre's experiences in the frontline; the public execution outside the Kremlin, etc.<br />Certainly one of the highest points in world literature, it is a very entertaining novel full of life.	2003-10-10
965878:US	49263512	R3KAD29K5F6LV2	8432230170	480857069	Coronacion/Coronation (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Decadence, madness and hope	This novel tells the story of the decadence of an ancient and wealthy family from Santiago (Chile's capital) in middle XX century. The author contrasts this story with the one about Estela and Mario, the former being one of the maids of the manor. It is the contrast between the decadent life of the rich and the sordid affairs of the very poor. It is a cruel and bitter reflection on life and what can happen after death; about lucidity and madness; about the impossibility of happiness whether one is rich or poor. The main character is Elisita Grey de Abalos, the matron of the family, now old and suffering from something like Alzheimer. In spite of her illness, Elisita turns out to be the most lucid and clear-minded of the whole set, being able to perceive the innermost emotions and intentions of those around her, even more clearly than they themselves. Her middle-aged and bachelor nephew, Andres, discovers too late that his pretended indifference about life and passions has not cured him from the lust for life. His brother in law, Carlos Gros, has enjoyed life's passions and pleasures but in the way he has lost what he treasured most. On the other side there is the story of the maid Estela and her impoverished lover, Mario. Estela is one of the millions of poor women who fall for false promises and sees her trust and love betrayed. Mario is poor and ignorant, but at some point he will be near success. However gloomy this sounds, ther is hope in the end: madness as a remedy against desire and rejection.<br />I know this doesn't sound very engaging, but I assure you it is a very readable novel with substance to it, it is a clever depiction of very human developments and it is well written.	2003-09-23
966075:US	49263512	R3LODZ1AA0QH2P	0948166037	416871590	Armance	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Stendhal warming up before his great works	I am a big admirer of Stendhal. His novels &quot;The Red and the Black&quot; and &quot;The Charterhouse of Parma&quot; are, in my opinion, two of the best in world literature, as well as some of his short stories, especially those included in his &quot;Italian Chronicles&quot;. &quot;Armance&quot; is an early novel, in which Stendhal explores an uncommon subject, especially for his age: impotence. The novel is far from vulgar or obscene, instead, it depicts a very difficult and painful dilemma, ages before Viagra came to the rescue. In spite of its being an early work, Stendhal displays here one of his trademark characteristics: although there is much drama, he remains aloof and distant, avoiding melodrama and corniness. In 1827, Octave is a young man living the moment in which an aristocratic young Frenchman must become a grown-up. This includes getting married. Small wonder that he is rather gloomy and tormented about the whole idea, since he feels obliged to find a rich wife, but he is in love with his cousin, Armance, an orphaned, sensitive and intelligent young woman. And there you have your drama: he is shy because of his illness; she is shy because she's poor. Doomed love. Nevertheless, Octave will decide to marry her after an equivocal incident in which her honor might be at risk, thus finding a suitable excuse to let her finally know how much he loves her (those were the days). I won't spoil the ending, but it is an interesting solution to the problem.<br />In this tragic book, we can observe how social conventions and the rigidity of human interaction prevented real communication, which helped make problems even worse. Stendhal himself, however, remains unmoved and at some points you get the feeling he is ironically smiling at the sufferings of these poor bourgeois people.<br />This is not a masterpiece by Stendhal, but it is interesting because the tale is good and because here you can see the first steps in a literary career which left us truly great books.	2003-09-23
987895:US	49263512	R32FVC479B98VI	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wrong turn of the American Dream	On the surface, this is a simple novel, not unlike many Romances-with-beauty-and-money. But the magic of the book resides in the depth of the context in which the story unfolds: the restless prosecution of money which characterizes Americans (in general), and which in this case would also buy love. It is a Romantic story in the strict sense of the concept.<br />The novel evolves with agility, elegance, and freshness. Jay Gatsby is a new millionaire who desperately tries to recover his beloved girlfriend of old, now married to a bully and also millionaire man. The narrator is a neighbor of Gatsby, Nick, who is witness to Gatsby's efforts to reconquer Daisy Buchanan. Eventually the lovers reunite, but of course happiness lasts little, and the events unfold, as another reviewer has aptly put it, like a Greek tragedy. Social conventions impose themselves, and finally Realism triumphs over Romanticism. It all happens in the Twenties, when American society rapidly evolved towards the hedonism and materialism that characterizes much of it today. It is undeniably a great novel and it will last not just because it reflects neatly the American character, but because in the end it speaks to any manifestation of human nature. Say: back when you were a young person, and your loved one turned you down, didn't you dream of becoming rich and successful and THEN getting the girl (or boy)? How did it turn out?	2003-09-04
988049:US	49263512	R1UL0PUH985GDF	0374503486	432602964	Memoirs of Hadrian	Books	5	9	12	N	N	An extraordinary character	In a long letter to his successor Marcus Aurelius, the old emperor Hadrian, sick and close to death, tells the story of his life, his intense presence on Earth, over which he left traces from Scotland to Iran. Born in Spain, Hadrian is taken at a a very young age to study in Rome and Athens, where he falls in love with all things Greek. Actually he would do much to re-hellenize Rome. Then comes military life in Orient (what we call now the Middle East) and Panonia (roughly Hungary-Czech Rep.), where he acquires and comes to appreciate military values. After Hadrian is made governor of Syria, Emperor Trajan dies and appoints him as his successor. His reign begins, against his will, with the murders of four enemies. Hadrian stops Trajan reckless expansionist wars and consolidates the Empire at its highest point in wealth, power and size. Then come the happy years, when he wanders the Empire, governing and enjoying the company of his young and beloved Antinoo, who would suffer a tragic death. At an old age, he retires to his villa in Tibur, where he supposedly writes the long letter that forms this most engaging book.<br />This masterpiece creates a living human being, one who transmits greatness, intelligence, cultivation, sensitivity and unique statesmanship abilities (not so common these days). Hadrian is, of course, a man with a big ego (how to be Emperor of Rome and not have one?), yet he is anything but vain or nave about himself. He does not swallow the tale about emperors' divinity: he knows himself to be mortal, vulnerable and his religiosity is vague and sober. He learns to know Man. He abhors the Coloseum carnages, but shows up because he understands their role in alleviating the people's lives.<br />The abundant lamentations over Antinoo are not very enticing for non-homosexual readers, but they are critical in revealing Hadrian's vulnerable side and consequently help humanize him. <br />Full of memorable sentences, this book runs like water. The years and years of research and meditation aren't felt, since the prose is rich, fluid and terse, which is one of the major merits of this great book.	2003-09-04
988532:US	49263512	R17A0S4SIMARB1	0521426219	43217624	Macbeth (Cambridge School Shakespeare)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The lust for illegitimate power	This is one of Shakespeare's plays I have liked best so far (I still have several ones left to read), along with Hamlet, King Lear and Julius Caesar. It is the tragedy of ambition and delusion, and the fatal results of those two vices combined. It is also one of Shakespeare's plays in which the supernatural has a greater participation. Just as Hamlet is driven to revenge by a ghost -his father's- Macbeth is driven to desperate ambition for power by three witches who tell him he is destined to occupy the throne of Scotland (way back in the Middle Ages). Though Macbeth is not a very resolute man and so has many doubts, his inescrupulous wife jumps in on the prophecy and pushes him all along. She must be one of the dreariest women to have appeared in fiction ever. You can imagine her truly as the mother in law from hell. Together, the Macbeths perpetrate a series of treasons and horrible murders, and even start up a war, all for the throne they will, of course, never enjoy. As always with Ol' Billy, the dialogues are incredibly strong and magnificent, full of passion and energy. The scene where the ghost of Banquo appears in the middle of a dinner is more than spooky, horrifying. This play is pure evil, violence, disaster and remorse, and the final transformation of Macbeth is necessarily too late, but worth contemplating.	2003-09-04
988690:US	49263512	R26MSVX8I2TEF7	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The loneliness, the fog, the passion	For some reason I expected this to be a Pink novel. Much on the contrary, it's rather black. It is a little masterpiece with no true Romanticism (or maybe yes). It is more of a Gothic novel, at least in tone and atmosphere. A man recently arrived to the Yorkshire moors is told, by his maid, the story of neighbors Earnshaw and Linton, and the Earnshaw's adopted and misterious stepson, Heathcliffe. The story spans decades of pure hatred, envy, horrible offenses and revenges, as well as despise for the human race. Each character lives immersed in their own bitterness and pain, with very little communication between them. BUT, beneath this surface there is love, the love between Catherine Earnshaw and her step brother Heathcliffe. In a way, it is a pure love, but it is also somewhat twisted and inevitably star-crossed. Out of this ill-fated love, a more normal and hopeful love will be born, but that you'll have to find for yourself.<br />For me, the best thing about this novel is the creation of an environment, the handling of the medium within which the tormented characters live. It is constantly tense, brooding, foreboding, with periodic explosions of anger, agression and grief. It is somber, macabre and rainy, like the place where it occurs.	2003-09-04
1018654:US	49263512	RNZYPYVNU9CMO	0525475400	20930023	The Book of Sand	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Utopia of a great wirter	The review's title is, of course, a paraphrase of one of the best stories in this collection, one written when Borges was already old and wiser than ever. His wisdom is a disenchanted one, but then again he was never an exactly cheerful writer. His scope is infinite, as he deals not only with far distant lands but also with entirely imaginary ones. One of the most peculiar characteristics of Borges, acutely present in this slim volume, is his constant mixing up of reality with fantasy, of different epochs, and of true and imaginary identities.<br />The best example of this is the first tale, \\"The Other\\", an encounter between the young and the old Borges. Both are sitting on a bench by a river, but the young one is in Geneva in the twenties, while the old is in Cambridge, Mass., in 1969. Their conversation is friendly but distant, and it is simply impossible to read it without imagining what you would say to your younger self if you had a chance to talk to him. All the stories are good -vintage Borges-, but some of my favorites are: \\"Utopia of a Tired Man\\", a chilling encounter with a man from the distant future; \\"The Night of Gifts\\", a gaucho story of learning about sex and death in a single night; \\"There are more things\\" (English title in the original), an homage to H.P. Lovecraft; \\"The Book of Sand\\", about an infinite book.<br />This mature collection is a strong sample of Borges's best qualities: concision, brevity, high-octanage imagination, philosophical profundity without pretentiousness.	2003-08-08
1018717:US	49263512	R2YJ461QS9KEIF	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A wonderful adventure	I agree with other reviewers here who say that this book should be used in classes, instead of the boring, stiff and uninformative bricks we are given in school. Boorstin, an erudite man if there is one, has a unique skill to deliver complex stories in a most readable and interesting way, and probably the secret lies in that he gives us the human dimension. His book is centered on the persons who made all these discoveries, not on the discoveries themselves, and that makes it all the more appealing.<br />I had read his book &quot;The Creators&quot; (another must-read focused on art) and I think the same element is present. In &quot;The Discoverers&quot;, Boorstin takes us by the hand and guides us through the history of Man's search for knowledge. And it is a romp. The cast of characters is as varied as humanity itself, from crazy madmen to admirable heroes of knowledge. Among the ones I remember best: Galileo was a great guy, I would have loved to meet him; Newton not, he was not a nice guy (and I couldn't understand any of his thoughts anyway); Paracelsus was a total whacko; Columbus was admirable in his obstination; Linnaeus was great too; but the guy who discovered metabolism was the craziest of them all. Just imagine a guy weighing his body before and after meals, and then weighing... ugh, his excrements to measure the difference. Thank God somebody did it, but it sounds awful.<br />Read this book and you will learn a lot more than in three years of school.	2003-08-08
1031527:US	49263512	R39TU12W5XJF5S	0375413308	496086416	Zeno's Conscience (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	There's something to it	This is really a strange book: the characters are not that likable, there is practically no plot, and still it is attractive. This is the story of a man that does nothing in his life, except to procrastinate, cheat and waste his time. But he's not unlikable. I think that, in the end, he's even wise.<br />Zeno Cosini is the heir to a prosperous merchant, and so he has no need to work. He has a bad habit of smoking and he's always trying to quit although in his heart he doesn't really want to. He undertakes therapy to get rid of the habit and his analyst advises him to write down his memoirs, which end up being this book. Zeno tells us about his father's death, the story of his courtship of Ada and his marriage to Ada's ugly (cross-eyed)sister Augusta, a wonderful woman who loves Zeno very much, although he cheats on her constantly. Then we read the story of Zeno's association with Guido, the man Ada finally marries. This is the funniest part of the book.<br />It is funny without being &quot;comical&quot;. Zeno is really a puzzle: sometimes he's despicable, sometimes he's noble and wise. On the whole it is a good novel with a believable story, vivid characters and a sense of humor. But it is strange.	2003-07-29
1098464:US	49263512	R3C7VDFYN0V8BN	0192816969	600977353	Cruel Tales (The World's Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Strangely attractive	In all truth, I think this book deserves three stars, but what the hell, I enjoyed it and I think other people might enjoy it too. It is definitely not a masterpiece of literature, but somehow it forms part of the Western literary tradition and its style has, directly or not, inspired much of current popular culture. Villiers de l'Isle was a member of that strange group, the French decadents, active in the last part of the XIX century, like Huysmans, Lautreamont and Mallarm (the latter being much superior in strictly literary quality). The whole idea of decadentism is to reject the vulgar, noisy, superflous life of modernity, the disappearance of the nobility, the predominance of the cheap. Decadentists nostalgically praise the life of the soul, the reclusiveness enjoyed by old nobles living in gloomy castles. It is like Romanticism disillusioned, taken to the extreme. Hence comes the idealization of the Middle Ages, as opposed to the most optimistic century in history, the XIX. But decadentism also has a darker face: the fascination with death, sickness, twisted sex, darkness and retreat from society.<br />In these tales, Villiers treats these themes with varying success, but somehow they are attractive, so different from what we live, think and feel today. Two of the tales were, in my opinion, the best crafted: \\"The impatience of multitudes\\", about a warrior returning to an Ancient Greek city from a battle with the Persians. It is very vivid and indeed cruel, as the title of the collection suggests. It could even be said that it belongs in anthologies of this period. The other one is \\"The desire to be a man\\", a very sick story. The rest are very original (though it doesn't seem so, for the style has been appropriated by cheap entertainment and a few masterpieces) and they create the right mood, with pale full moons, crows, owls, night horse-rides and all which is now a cliche of ghosts stories. It is an easy and quick read, rather eccentric.	2003-06-06
1102795:US	49263512	R2RE9J9MDYDJAE	0486221903	260001408	Against the Grain ( Rebours)	Books	4	33	33	N	Y	An experiment in eccentricity	Des Esseintes, the protagonist (and basically the only character) of this book, is a man of noble descent who has tried everything in life: he has mingled with the frivolous and found them vulgar and empty-headed. He has lived among the intellectuals and found them petulant and arrogant. He is tired of life, especially in these (his) vulgar and superficial times. So he sells a number of properties and buys a house in the countryside. His idea is to reject everything that is &quot;natural&quot; and concentrate on art and artifice. He lives in complete solitude, barely interrupted by a couple of silent servants. He spends much time choosing the colors, the furniture and the pictures for his house. Along the book we are witnesses to his tastes in a number of realms, such as painting, literature, flowers, perfumes and music. Sometimes it seems to be just a long catalogue of sophisticated, rare and decadent pieces. This book is a big fantasy of reclusion, of elegancy, of sophistication. Give yourself some time and be an eccentric for a day. If you read it with a sense of humor, you'll find an enjoyable piece of French dcadentisme, certainly on the periphery of the Western Canon, but representative of a way to view life.<br />Its atmosphere is very Gothic, gloomy, silent and full of beautiful things. The main character is a bit of a lunatic, but his bored and irritable personality has a touch of glamour. If you sometimes feel filled up with the world, if you sometimes fantasize about winning the lottery and then buying a big house full of the things you love, a place to retire and reject society and all its annoying and ugly characteristics, then you will find this book a very cool way of retiring from the world.	2003-06-02
1111145:US	49263512	RID4USD0AJMTN	0140180923	115107087	Lord Jim (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Guilt and redemption	This is the fifth book I have read by Conrad, and through these readings I have come to deeply appreciate his literary power and the perfection of his stories. Conrad has the skill to border about several similar subjects, without repeating himself. \\"Lord Jim\\" is truly a Shakespearean tragedy, mainly because of the Shakespearean nature of the main character. Jim is a young naval officer with high hopes of heroism and moral superiority, but when he faces his first test of courage, he miserably fails. While 800 Muslim pilgrims are asleep aboard the ship \\"Patna\\", Jim discovers that the boat is about to sink. There are not sufficient lifeboats for everybody. Should he wake them up or not? He gets paralyzed with fear and then sudenly jumps into a boat being set up by the rest of the officers. He is taken to trial and disposessed of his working licence.<br />Ashamed and humiliated, Jim dedicates the rest of his life to two things: escape the memory of that fateful night, and redeem himself. This agonizing quest to recover his dignity in front of his own eyes leads him to hide in a very remote point in the Malayan peninsula, where he will become the hero, the strong man, the wise protector of underdeveloped, humble and ignorant people. Jim finds not only the love of his people, but also the love of a woman who admires him and fears the day when he might leave for good. The narrator, Captain Marlow (the same of \\"Heart of Darkness\\") talks to Jim for the last time in his remote refuge, and then Jim tells him that he has redeemed himself by becoming the people's protector. Oh, but these things are never easy and Jim will face again the specter of failure.<br />Conrad has achieved a great thing by transforming the \\"novel of adventures\\" into the setting for profound and interesting reflections on the moral stature of Man, on courage, guilt, responsibility, and redemption.<br />Just as in \\"Heart of Darkness\\" the question is what kinds of beings we are stripped of cultural, moraland religious conventions; just as in \\"Nostromo\\" the trustworthiness of a supposedly honest man is tested by temptation, in \\"Lord Jim\\" the central subject is dignity and redemption after failure. <br />A great book by one of the best writers.	2003-05-26
1142431:US	49263512	R16PJWMUH7GD1A	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	27	33	N	N	Pi, the sea, the sky and a tiger	I agree with other reviewers about the impossibility to put down this book once you get going. It is a refreshing book on several senses: it renews and reinvigorates the great tradition of sea and castaway stories, but it also refreshes contemporary literature by writing about an incredible accomplishment, instead of the now usual complains of navel-gazing intellectuals.<br />It contains reminiscences of other authors, yet in a new light. I was reminded of Conrad and Melville, but also of Poe -Arthur Gordon Pym- and, of course, Defoe. It could be said that Pi is a Robinson Crusoe confined to an even smaller island and in worse company: his Friday bites. Beyond the great stroytelling skills of Martel, Pi is ultimately a story of pure survival under the most horrible conditions imaginable. It is also a story about the power of faith and the uselessnes of religious confrontations, since all great religions have the same core values and what's important is our personal relationship with the Divine, however you may conceive of it. By the way, I strongly disagree with one reviewer below who recommends skipping the first 100 pages. They are indispensable to understand Pi's attitude towards his predicament, as well as to understand his strategy to cope with the tiger, Richard Parks.<br />Just as any other great adventure book, it goes well beyond the story itself: it has a message, and one that fortunately can be understood at different levels by different readers.<br />Sometimes it resembles a fable, sometimes just a hallucination, but it fits perfectly in the tradition of sea-going adventures which confront Man with total solitude in the face of terrible circumstances, and hence, with Man's faith in God and in himself and the need to extract all his resources just in order to stay alive. A very welcome book that reveals the complete health of literature.	2003-04-28
1145906:US	49263512	R21T8DQP0M7F2V	0781803462	630981948	The Relic	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sarcastic and vivid	One has to be very cautious when reviewing this book, since there is much to give away about the plot and then ruin the reading for people. Teodorico Raposo becomes orphan as a child and is sent to Lisbon to live with his aunt, a terrible, unlikable and tyrannical religious fanatic who terrorizes everybody around her with her puritanism and obsessions. But she happens to be very rich and Teodorico her only relative alive. So he has to pretend ALL the time that he is just as fanatic as her aunt, while living a double life of pleasure and sin. One day, his aunt decides that before dying someone has to go to the Holy Land and get her some authentic relic of Jesus' times. And guess who she chooses to go there.<BR>So Teodorico embarks towards Egypt and Palestine in what becomes a very funny adventure alongside his companion, the wise scholar Dr. Topsius. To go further would, as I said, risk giving away parts of the plot which are really unexpected and good. Suffice it to say that the travel includes a wonderful, colorful and vivid narration of the day when Jesus was crucified. It turned out to be a very enjoyable book by one of the best writers of the XIX century.	2003-04-25
1157959:US	49263512	RM4XKU667O8RY	0914061534	114213287	Hadji Murad	Books	5	53	54	N	Y	Between a rock and a hard place	This is the partially fictionalized account of the last days of Hadji Murad, a renowned and feared Chechen -more precisely, Avar- warrior in 1851-52. Feared by the ruthless Imam Shamil, ruler of Chechens and other Caucasians, Murad is forced to defect yet again to the Russians, who recieve him warmly but suspiciously (he has switched sides before). Murad keeps telling the Russians he won't be of much help unless they support him in getting his family safe and back from the cruel Shamil. Some of them incline to do so, but others fear he might be just spying on them. The action drags on, with no resolution arrived at, until Murad makes his final dash.<br />As literature, the story is incredibly well written; as background information on the origins of the still-going-on Chechen war, it is priceless. Tolstoi show here his very literary genius: in only 125 pages, he conveys a portrait of many characters, each and every one with his/her own full personality. It is marvelous how Tolstoi can give a whole personality to even the minor characters in a short work.<br />The depictions of landscapes and circumstances are also masterful, and you can really feel the cold wind and see the wooded mountains of that magnetic and troublesome corner, neither fully European nor Asian. <br />It is, then, the story of a real man who got caught between the despised Russians and the murderous Chechen leader, really a tragic figure in the sense that he has to make decisiones in front of certain death for him and for his family, whom he deeply loves. Great literature tends to be that which posts credible and appealing characters in limit-situations, and this is clearly one of the best. Refreshing to read an action-packed, well-written, historically interesting story with compelling characters.	2003-04-15
1158277:US	49263512	R16BNXM0XADAS6	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	4	9	N	Y	The Muslim world 101	Recognized worldwide as one of the leading -if not the leading- experts in the Muslim world and the Middle East, Lewis has timely written this short work which sums up the last centuries of that strategic, unescapable, bloody realtionship between the West and the Muslim world. This book tries to help answer one single question: What went wrong? How come the Muslims got to this situation of utter inferiority and hatred/fear/envy of the West?<br />Some centuries back, when Western Europe was a very primitive, unhealthy, fanatical, quarrelsome place, the Muslims (Arabs, Persians, Turks, etc.) had built the most advanced society in the world, and by far. In sanitation, pleasure, luxury, knowledge and general wisdom, they were well beyond people living in cold castles or frozen huts. Many if not most of the works by the Ancient Greeks have reached us thanks to the work of many Muslim scholars (Avicena, Averroes and others). In Spanish, almost every word for luxury activities and items comes from Arabic.<br />But something happened along the way and the Muslim world started receding back in precisely all those aspects in which they used to excel. One of the most important is cosmopolitanism. In the Muslim world, people from many different backgrounds coexisted, even if not always harmonically, while the West was a very fanaticized place. Which is, of course, the opposite of what happens today.<br />Lewis cites many factors: religion, arrogance, an exteremely limited curiosity to go see the outer world, their seemingly being unable to produce science of their own initiative, and others.<br />I can not imagine another book more relevant to start to understand the complex and confusing events taking place in our time. A concise, short, well-written, fasciniating study of the difficult relationship between two worlds, this book should be widely read, especially by eleventh-hour \\"experts\\" in history, diplomacy and war.	2003-04-15
1195135:US	49263512	R2QUEPAW21Z8FC	1873982917	376456098	The Golem (Dedalus European Classics)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The world of a dream	There's much to give away about this book, but it is hard to get the plot straight once you've finished. Although the prose itself is quite straightforward and not experimental, the first-person narration seems to jump from the conscious to the under- or sub-conscious. It tells the myth of the Golem, an artificial creature created in the XVI century by Rabbi Loew in the ghetto of Prague to protect the Jewish community from destruction and injustice, but the myth is told from a very original perspective. Athanasius Pernath is a jeweler and restorator with faint memories of his past, who lives in the ghetto and experiences a series of strange (very strange) adventures involving crime, romance, estranged relationships and contact with the Golem himself. The most wonderful thing about this book is the atmosphere, the dark, tense environment and the beautiful depictions of Prague and its different neighborhoods, especially the ghetto.<br />The characters are all strange and enticing, but the plot is superbe, difficult and mysterious. It is a fascinating book even if could not be considered strictly a literary masterpiece. It is gloomy, spooky and enigmatic, indeed very gothic, and lovers of literature with strange, mystical situations will enjoy it.	2003-03-13
1195687:US	49263512	R27S7VC92RZVVZ	0452267455	664457226	Baghdad without a Map and Other Misadventures in Arabia	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Interesting and relevant for today	This is a very useful book to understand the societies and politics of that complex region called the Middle East. Far from academic tones, but well informed and with background information, the book tells the travels of journalist Tony Horwitz, a Jewish-American who travels in Yemen, Egypt, Irak, Iran, Sudan, the United Arab Emirates and Lybia. Horwitz not just interviews politicians and professors, but mainly the ordinary man in the street. This is good because it gives the reports a local, personal and real flavor. Horwitz is sympathetic to its common subjects and very acid about the big shots, something welcome by the reader, at least this one.<br />I think it is very unfair to portrait this book as \\"funny\\", juts as the cover of my copy does. It is not funny at all nor does it pretend to be, notwithstanding the author's sense of humor. Most of the things he narrates -even with the aforementioned sense of humor- are pretty horrible and spooky. Far from a comic book, Horwitz has delivered a serious -not solemn- portrait of the horrors of living in those areas of the world, ruled by lunatic and murderous dictators, by sanguinary clowns, as well as by fear, misery, poverty and violence. Just as in every corner of the world, there are good and bad people, but somehow what we are witnesses to is the failure of a culture, a failure to produce minimally decent, free and happy societies. <br />Yemen is a God-forsaken place of chaos and stoned people; the Persian Gulf is a cosmopolitan smuggling area -a very beautiful chapter-; Cairo is poverty, disorder and mutltitudes; Baghdad is simply the worst place on Earth -a specially relevant chapter for what is going on today and a reminder of the suffering and sheer misery imposed by a crazy killer-; Isreal doesn't sound too good; Libya is boring; Sudan is hell; Beirut not better to get close to, at least in those days; and Tehran is contradictory.<br />Inevitably, the portrait of these places is negative, even as Horwitz, as said above, is a sympathetic and unprejudiced man. It is simply the truth that these countries ahve been unable to be livable, as the urge of so many to flee them attests.<br />This is a good moment to read or reread this book: it shows light on the region.	2003-03-13
1238941:US	49263512	R1NMWNNQM29O1U	067972575X	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	5	80	92	N	N	The strangest coming-of-age novel	Western literature is full of what Germans call \\"bildungsroman\\", that is, the story of a young man's (or woman's)intellectual and emotional growth, often told from the main character's own voice. This kind of novel has adopted innumerable shapes and styles through history, and certainly this one is, so far for me, the strangest and one of the best.<br />It is hard to summarize the plot, as it is mainly the diverse and extreme experiences of Oskar Matzerath's life. Born in 1924 in Danzig, itself a unique and troubled city, Oskar decides at age three not to grow up anymore. Or does he simply has an illness of the tyroid gland, as he hints at some point? It doesn't matter, precisely because that moment starts the style of the whole book: all the time, terrible things are happening to Oskar, to his family, to his city, to his nation and to his century, but we see everything only through the distorted glass of this unique character's view.<br />First he tells us about his ancestors and the life they led in pre-war German Poland. Then we know the story of his parents, the infidelity of his mother and other disturbing and often sordid events. His community starts to fall apart as the Nazis rise to power. Then the Nazis come and destroy the city, phisically and spiritually. Oskar spends the whole war in Danzig as well as wandering through France and Belgium as part of a grotesque midget-troup&eacute;e. After the war, they flee Poland for D&uuml;sseldorf, where he is employed in very different jobs: as a tomb engraver, painters' model, jazz drum player. The chapter which describes the journey by train is simply horrible and scaring, as the chapter on his emotional disappointing is sad. The end is strange, confusing but full of hope.<br />There is abundant abnormal sex, vomit, dirt, misery, but also struggle, success, and much love. Oskar is not always nice, but he remains loyal to those he loves, and that is a great strength of a character you sometimes hate, but in the end you come to love. The book is full of metaphors, obscure symbolisms, grotesque and sordid events, and, above all, the human misery of our century, especially in Europe. It is a bittersweet book, often repulsive, just because that is how life is. It has moments of joy, of glorious triumph, of utter defeat. It is very very sad, because it is the story of a distorted but extremely sane person in an equally destorted but horribly insane world, but it is also a book about the joy of life, about how we have to keep going on even in the midst of tragedy and misery. If it has a message, it should be: fight on.<br />It is said that great works of literature depend on character development, not so much on the plot and the story itself. Well, this is a case in point. The whole book is sustained by the central character of Oskar, a wicked, depressed, desperate man seeing how his world crumbles apart and he has to build a life for himslef. As another reviewer aptly put it, he is the lonely voice crying in the wilderness. Oskar is a very solitary man with a great disadvantage, one that by sheer willpower he turns every time into an advantage, a means for surviving in a careless, cold world. Oskar never gives up, never surrenders, he finds a way to survive after every setback, and terrifying setbacks he experiences.<br />I think this book had to be written in the form of magical realism, because the pure realism would have been insufferable: the tragedies that occur are beyond telling them.<br />Not an easy read, it is most rewarding, for it paints a wide picture of the human experience, precisely what great literature is about.to love. The book is full of metaphors, obscure symbolisms, grotesque and sordid events, and, above all, the human misery of our century, especially in Europe. It is a bittersweet book, often repulsive, just because that is how life is. It has moments of joy, of glorious triumph, of utter defeat. It is very very sad, because it is the story of a distorted but extremely sane person in an equally destorted but horribly insane world, but it is also a book about the joy of life, about how we have to keep going on even in the midst of tragedy and misery. If it has a message, it should be: fight on.<br />It is said that great works of literature depend on character development, not so much on the plot and the story itself. Well, this is a case in point. The whole book is sustained by the central character of Oskar, a wicked, depressed, desperate man seeing how his world crumbles apart and he has to build a life for himslef. As another reviewer aptly put it, he is the lonely voice crying in the wilderness. Oskar is a very solitary man with a great disadvantage, one that by sheer willpower he turns every time into an advantage, a means for surviving in a careless, cold world. Oskar never gives up, never surrenders, he finds a way to survive after every setback, and terrifying setbacks he experiences.<br />I think this book had to be written in the form of magical realism, because the pure realism would have been insufferable: the tragedies that occur are beyond telling them.<br />Not an easy read, it is most rewarding, for it paints a wide picture of the human experience, precisely what great literature is about.	2003-02-06
1250766:US	49263512	R2NSKZ0V6F8U5F	0405114419	57505213	The Characters of Theophrastus (Greek Texts and Commentaries)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A glimpse into Ancient Greece's everyday life	Theophrastus was a close friend, disciple and heir to Aristotle. In fact, after the master died, Theophrastus remain in charge of the Academia, the school where the peripathetics taught, learned and researched. Unfortunately, very little of this man's work has reached us, and this set of short texts seems to have been some kind of divertimento for their long talks after meals. They are clearly ironic sketches of several vices of behavior, not intended as &quot;serious&quot; philosophy but as literary entertainments.<br />Theophrastus depicts several reprobable behaviors and types of characters, such as avarice, imprudence, aggresiveness, and other types of annoying, obnoxious or simply wrong attitudes. The historical value of the book is that it gives us some information of what everyday life was at the time (4th century BC) in Greece. We know, for example, that for a gentleman it was unproper to go to the market and carry the things back himself, without the help of a servant or slave. We know also that the Greeks used to get together at certain places in the evenings, and that it was usual for groups of friends to cooperate with money in order to help a fellow in trouble. It is a funny, short and revealing book, so it's well worth your time.	2003-01-27
1278533:US	49263512	R21G9MX9I9CKTS	0140444726	655438036	Jacques the Fatalist and His Master (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	43	43	N	N	An interactive literary device	Two centuries or so before &quot;modern&quot; writers began writing experimental novels, Denis Diderot, the force behind the Encyclopaedia effort, wrote this strange and indeed very &quot;modern&quot; novel in which the author leads a conversation with the reader, asking him where he (or she, of course) would want to go and what to do with the characters and the story. Here we see the author in the very process of creation, exposing his doubts, exploring his options, and playing with the story.<br />There is really no plot as such. Jacques, a man who seems to believe everything that happens is already written &quot;up on high&quot;, but who nonetheless keeps making decisions for himself, is riding through France with his unnamed master, a man who is skeptic of Jacques's determinism but who remains rather passive throughout the book. Fate and the creator-author will put repeatedly to test Jacques's theory, through a series of more or less fortunate accidents and situations, as well as by way of numerous asides in the form of subplots or stories.<br />The novel is totally disjointed and these asides and subplots blurb all over the place, always interrupted themselves by other happenings. The most interesting of them is the story of Madame de Pommeroy and her bitter but ultimately ineffectual revenge on her ex-lover.<br />Diderot confesses to having taken much from Sterne's &quot;Tristram Shandy&quot; and Cervantes's &quot;Don Quixote&quot;. This last novel's influence seems obvious at two levels: Cervantes also talks to the reader, especially in Part Two, and also reflects abundantly on the creative process. Moreover, the tone and environment of the book is very similar to the Quixote: two people engaged in an endless philosophical conversations while roaming around the countryside and facing several adventures which serve to illustrate one or antoher point of view.<br />Diderot's humour is bawdy and practical and the book is fun to read. The exact philosophical pointis not clearcut, but it will leave the reader wondering about Destiny, Fate, and Free Will.	2003-01-06
1279097:US	49263512	R244LCTLJDAZZ4	1852421916	988281510	The Shipyard (Extraordinary Classics)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Existentialism without rhetoric	This is a grim, gloomy and creepy but strangely attractive novel, very much representative of sixties' angst and the feeling that spread over the world during that time: the void of existence. This stream produced very good -and very bad- books, some of the best being those of Camus and a few others. Onetti is certainly one of the least known -especially outside the Spanish-speaking world- and best writers of this generation. <br />\\"The Shipyard\\" is the miserable story of a defeat foretold, to paraphrase Garca-Mrquez, whose style is so far away from that of Onetti. Larsen, a fiftysomething man, is back in the fictitious Uruguayan town of Santa Mara, after five years of exile imposed by the governor. He is workless and depressed, but nonetheless he has a plan: to become General Manager of the local shipyard, owned by one Jeremas Petrus, and marry this guy's dumb daughter. And so he proceeds with his plan, showing up everydat at work, where he only interacts with his two co-workers, two men with no history and no future who seem to dislike him but nevertheless share meals with him. There is really nothing to do at the shop, since the business has been bankrupt for a number of years. Petrus insists the shipyard will be back in business soon, but we readers know it will never happen.<br />Is this novel any good? I say yes. Of course, as a philosophical school Existentialism is condemned to failure, ... -if it's true that life has no possible meaning at all. The characters are unlikable, with the possible exception of Larsen himself in a strange fashion. There is really no plot and we all know right from the start that the novel can not have any happy ending. Where is then the strength of the book? Well, in that it is very well written. Onetti reveals himself as a truly good creator of moods, environments, images. He has the power of taking you right there and making you see, hear and smell the same as the characters. His prose is direct, straight and non-experimental, thank God, since his is no magical realism at all but pure, crude and rude realism. The interest of the reader is sustained by the curiosity to see what will become of poor but somehow brave Larsen. I would say that, as far as Existentialism was able to produce good writing, this is one of the best bets you have.	2003-01-06
1323755:US	49263512	R3HLVW0WRYS1PX	0375705368	427736275	Anglomania: A European Love Affair	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	The best civilization?	This is simply a delightful book,in which Dutchman Buruma (whose grandparents were German Jews who fled Germany)intertwines his and his family's experiences with England with the experiences of many Anglophiles and Anglophobes. It makes for a very easy, rewarding reading. Buruma talks about many Europeans who loved or hated (and frequently loved and hated at the same time) England. First he deals with that most acute of observers, Voltaire, and his question of why can't the world be more like England?, the land of liberty, the rule of law, tolerance and restraint. Marx, Pevsner, Herzen, Kaiser Wilhelm II and many other politicians, philosophers and artists are portraited here in their relationship with these crucial island.<BR>The book is fast, sharp, funny, erudite, full of interesting anecdotes, and most of all a book about ideas and attitudes. it is one of the best books I've read recently and it is totally recommended.	2002-11-29
1324264:US	49263512	RA0DPP2R7JRYA	0140183523	256512938	Kim (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Great Game	Kim is a young boy, a naughty rascal from the streets of Lahore, very much in the tradition of Huck Finn or Lzaro de Tormes, heroes of the picaresque. He is the child of a dead Irish soldier and a native woman who is addicted to opium, so he is pretty much on his own, wandering around all day and being called &quot;the friend of all the world&quot;. He has been told that he is destined for great things, and that he will meet his fate when he sees &quot;a red bull on a green field&quot;. One day, a mysterious holy man arrives in Lahore and Kim leaves with him. He travels around India with this holy lama, experiencing many adventures in this vast, colorful and dangerous land. Of course he meets his destiny and soon he is playing &quot;the Great Game&quot;, that is, he becomes a spy for the English crown in its war to retain control over India and Afghanistan (yep, trouble goes that far back and more).<BR>This is simply a delightful book about an extraordinary hero and his even more extraordinary mentor, the wise lama. If you are attracted by India, this will be a real treat, since it allows you to experience the magic, color, tastes and smells of this interesting nation, in the midst of exciting adventure and spy-games. Kipling was a very good writer who had the trick of writing intelligent books disguised as children iterature. Don't let him cheat you: this is a great novel about a bygone age.	2002-11-28
1324482:US	49263512	R2IKEJ3Q540BY7	0375756566	316489894	Austerlitz (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Beautifully sad	This novel is very different from any other kind of good literature being written today. It has no chapters or divisions; instead, it is a long monologue briefly interrupted by the unnamed narrator's change of settings and time. Throughout the book, Jacques Austerlitz tells us the story of his life and of his origins, as he goes on discovering them. Raised by a childless Welsh couple, Austerlitz finds out around his 15th year that he is from Jewish descent and that he fled Europe when he was four years old, shortly before the outbreak of WWII.<BR>Austerlitz becomes a historian of architecture and travels around Europe (the book is filled with beautiful black and white pictures), but at some point he feels the urgent need to find out about his origins, after a series of nervous breakdowns. What follows is the extraordinary and painful discovery of the fate of his parents and, as a parallel, of Europe in those disastrous years. Sebald's prose is terse and fluid (even if, like me, you don't speak German, you can tell that the translation is really good), his ruminations on a number of subjects is never boring but enlightening, and the story of the narrator and Austerlitz's encounters is incredible but essential to the storyline.<BR>Several passages are likely to remain in your memory. For me, some of them were life at his youth's friend's family house in Wales, the naturalist excursions and the sighting of moths, the visit to Marienbad, and especially his conversations with his aged ex-nurse in Prague. One good thing about the book is the descriptions of European cities, which are very inspiring. In short, this novel is very good and rewarding. Its main subject is the search for identity, but by no means is it the only one. Sebald's death late last year gives it an increased sense of nostalgia and melancholy, and it will likely be regarded later as one of the best novels written at the beginning of this enigmatic century.	2002-11-28
1341161:US	49263512	R2B9O10EU640V8	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It is about humanity	Whatever you political principles and ideas about economics, you would have to be inhuman to fail to grasp the utter injustices committed against poor peasants during the Great Depression, reflected in the desperation and dehumanization brought about on the Joad family, who lost all they had and were forced to wander the American West in search of pure survival.<br />Tom Joad gets out of jail (where he had landed after he killed another guy in a fight)just to find his family destituted and forced to leave their land. So begins what has to be the saddest road-novel of all times. The Joads jump up into a waste of a car and start traveling to California, looking for the chance to get jobs in the prosperous citrics-growing trade. In the road they will suffer all kinds of setbacks and humiliations, until the terribly beautiful, meaningful and symbolic end. Several characters will leave you indelible impressions: Tom Joad himself, a simple but brave man; JC (get your conclusions about his symbolism), the appearing and disappearing ex-preacher; and, above all at least for me, the mother of the Joads, a lovable, courageuos, indestructible human being, one that makes you want to weep for her while feeling a towering admiration for her dignity.<br />Inserted between chapters are short reflections and background about those times, as well as small asides full of symbolism and literary beauties. Some say that Steinbeck's explanations have been proved distorted: don't let that interfere with what is a work of fiction. Such things have happened throughout human history, and what this book does is remind us all that we have a debt to our fellow men (and women, of course).<br />An epic of the eternal fight against indignity and misery, it deserves its fame and prestige.	2002-11-13
1341216:US	49263512	R2SVSJ10CEJZZS	0781805503	355557760	Quo Vadis	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Love and religion, or the religion of love	This novel has ideas, romance, violence, adventure, mysticism, and politics, so it can't be boring even if some reviewers complain about its slow start. Set in the middle of Nero's tenure in power, in the First century AD, it tells the story of Vinitius, a Roman military officer from a Patricious family with good standing at the court. He has the friendship and protection of Petronius, the Arbiter of Elegancy, a sensual, rich and cultivated man with much influence in court. Vinitius falls in love with the beautiful slave Ligia, who is a Christian living with a Roman Patricious family also converted to Christianity. Through his obsession with her, he gradually discovers the new religion and realizes the moral pit in which his culture has been decaying. Then Nero sets Rome on fire and Vinitius finds out that he'll have to rebel against the State in order to gain love. He is baptized and suffers persecution. Then he has to rescue his beloved from the Colliseum, just when she's going to be throwed in to the lions. The end is mystical and completely beautiful, and that's when you understand the title, which means \\"Where are you going, my Lord?\\", and is pronounced by St. Peter as he is fleeing Rome.<br />A very entertaining and rewarding novel, it is also a fictional testimony of the early years of Christendom. My favorite character is Petronius, a liberal, magnanimous and \\"cool\\" Pagan Roman who finds disgrace for protecting those he loves. very recommended.	2002-11-13
1341990:US	49263512	R1PA17UP3FZAML	0375701168	25770343	Doctor Faustus: The Life of the German Composer Adrian Leverkuhn As Told by a Friend	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The soul sold to the devil	In this reenactment of the ancient Western myth of Faustus, Thomas Mann tells us the story of German composer Adrian Leverkuhn, a man obsessed with themes of mathematics, theology and music. Leverkuhn is intent on composing the greatest and most original work of music ever thought of, and so, in a tiny village in Italy, expresses his disposition to sell his soul to the devil in order to achieve that. He gets what he wants, and for a number of years he works at another village, in Germany, until he achieves his dream, at a cost so terrible that in the end you will feel the creeps about it.<br />Intertwined wiht this story, written during WWII, are reflections of another selling of the soul to the devil, this time not by an ambitious individual but by a tormented people, the Germans, humiliated after WWI and in the midst of utter decadence, economic, political and moral. The devil is personified by a man called Adolf Hitler, who promises the Germans a thousand years of power and richness, if only they will support him in destroying the Western civilization, the Jews and international peace. And price the pay they do, but somehow you can not trust the devil and in the end, after the most gruesome conflagration in history, destruction is all the Germans get.<br />This is not an easy read. It takes concentration and a willingness to digest deep reflections on the subjects mentioned above, like the relationships between mathematics and music, sexuality and theology, and the reflex of the ancient myth on the lives of Leverkuhn (the prostitution of art) and Nazi Germany (the prostitution of hope). However, it is an exceptional work of art and of modern thought, so it is very rewarding.	2002-11-13
1363331:US	49263512	R3QSYD5GTG5UXB	0156453800	817453848	Invisible Cities	Books	5	66	73	N	N	Create your own city	In this wonderful litle book, an imaginary Marco Polo tells an equally fictional Kublai Khan the story of his many travels through the Mogol Empire, and all the cities he has known. They both know it's all in Polo's brain, but who cares, the imaginary cities are so vivid, so visually possible, that the emperor keeps demanding more of them.<br />Calvino really lets his imagination get high, to create the most bizarre, beautiful, horrible and crazy cities as any you yourself can imagine. Cities of all places, ages, shapes and peculiarities come to your mind. Calvino is really good at depicting impossible places, but also places that somehow remind you of real cities you've been to.<br />A remarkable work of imagination, well written, this is the ideal book to read in a dreamy scenery, but also in one of these quasi-impossible cities we humans have created, the craziest ones, such as NY, LA, Tokyo, Mexico City, etc.	2002-10-25
1364653:US	49263512	RGJ5A8T8LOORH	0671722727	930167934	King Lear	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A king brings tragedy unto himself	This star-rating system has one important flaw: you have to rank books only in relation to its peers, its genre. So you must put five stars in a great light-humor book, as compared to other ones of those. Well, I am giving this book four stars in relation to other Shakespeare's works and similar great books.<br />Of course, it's all in the writing. Shakespeare has this genius to come up with magnificent, superb sentences as well as wise utterings even if the plot is not that good.<br />This is the case with Lear. I would read it again only to recreate the pleasure of simply reading it, but quite frankly the story is very strange. It is hard to call it a tragedy when you foolishly bring it about on yourself. Here, Lear stupidly and unnecessarily divides his kingdom among his three daughters, at least two of them spectacularly treacherous and mean, and then behaves exactly in the way that will make them mad and give them an excuse to dispose of him. What follows is, of course, a mess, with people showing their worst, except for poor Edgar, who suffers a lot while being innocent.<br />Don't get me wrong: the play is excellent and the literary quality of Shakespeare is well beyond praise. If you have never read him, do it and you'll see that people do not praise him only because everybody else does, but because he was truly good.<br />The plot is well known: Lear divides the kingdom, then puts up a stupid contest to see which one of his daughters expresses more love for him, and when Cordelia refuses to play the game, a set of horrible treasons and violent acts begins, until in the end bad guys die and good guys get some prize, at a terrible cost.<br />As a reading experience, it's one of the strongest you may find, and the plot is just an excuse for great writing.	2002-10-24
1397758:US	49263512	RAJ9Q0TQGLLZT	0486414051	656320978	Manalive (Hilarious Stories)	Books	4	25	28	N	Y	A strange allegory	I have very ambivalent ideas about this book. Although I admire GK Chesterton, I didn't really like it as a novel. So where do the four stars come from? From the ideas. Chesterton produces in this short work the very essence of decent human behavior, Christian or otherwise, in the close world of an isolated community, as an experiment. It shows that essential humanity lies in one very simple principle: refraining from consciously hurting other people. Of course we are far from perfect and at some point we will do things that we know will hurt somebody else, since frequently we face hard choices and are left to our freedom to choose what we think is the best course of action. But Chesterton here goes a bit further and shows us that many things we have been led to believe are wrong, aren't wrong at all. Breaking into houses is forbidden by law, but it's not wrong if you break into your own home, etc.<BR>Certainly a good book, as a strictly literary work it was not entirely satisfying: plot, characters, etc.<BR>It is, however, well worth reading for the insightful but simple, yet correct, ideas.	2002-09-25
1412959:US	49263512	R39NDSRKHUPRV6	0679737898	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Best in its genre	PJ is very good at hating, since that allows him to display his wonderful, odious, arrogant and accurate sense of humor. His satires go right to the heart of the matter: government. Government IS inefficient, greedy, frivolous, ridiculous (though it's better than anarchy).<br />Being a good journalist, PJ not only insults, but documents. He explains and the research shows. He is a serious journalist with a non-serious attitude. I understood much about the American government and enjoyed even more PJ's sarcasms. I wonder what he would write if he lived down here in Mexico, where things are that bad and worse.	2002-09-10
1413141:US	49263512	R2X4RMOLWWCCL8	2262001251	934787596	Liberer Jerusalem: La premiere Croisade, 1095-1107 (French Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No English translation??	Well that is a pity. I found it in a good Spanish translation and read it, and it is a wonderful tale. It is serious history, thoroughly documented and reasoned, but it is well written in a narrative tone. The First Crusade was, of course, one of the greatest adventures ever sustained by mankind, full of horrific and splendid deeds and events. <br />It started in 1095 at the urging of Pope Urban II, and soon people from different parts of Europe were making their disastrous, long and terrible way to the Holy Places. There were basically four &quot;armies&quot;: the Lorennians, led by Gottfried of Bouillon; the Normans, led by Robert of Normandy; the Provenzals, led by Raymond de Saint-Gilles; and the Normans from Southern Italy, led by Bohemund of Tarento.<br />These brave, ambitious, ruthless and at the same time very religious men led thousand of Europeans into the Middle East, conquered Antiochia and Jerusalem and established their kingdoms. Now that the Middle East is in the eyes of everybody, it would be well worth it to take a look at how it was 1000 years ago: not much has changed in terms of violence and division<br />Magnificent adventure well told by a master in Middle Ages studies.	2002-09-10
1413888:US	49263512	R2QWHV4JP49IZQ	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	What really is important in life	I think that is the main subject of this book. Not that it is a long, corny lecture. Much on the contrary, it is a very funny novel, full of sarcasms and dark humor. Hank Devereaux, the son of English professors who had a painful divorce when he was a kid, is chair of the English department at a second-rate university in Pennsylvania. There is much politics going on there, for there are rumors that budget cuts -and layoffs- are on their way. So Hank's colleagues are giving him a hard time trying to find out if he's really going to set up a list of fired-to-be.<br />At the same time, hank is having physical ailments and some difficult situations with his family, so the week in his life that we are witnesses to is full with bizarre situations, troublesome for him but funny for us. But Hank hangs on to his sense of humor in order to go through this week, revealing us a small world of pettiness, mediocrity and full humanity.<br />But don't think this is just a gag-after-gag book. Below the sarcastic surface, there are deeper situations and human actions, some kind, some awful. Despite his grumpy style, Hank is a good guy and he gets to discover he has real friends. I liked the book but I especially liked him. And when you care about the characters, you keep reading.	2002-09-10
1465931:US	49263512	R2MEQGP27Z89UR	0140018948	972711653	A Burnt-out Case	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	The unescapable stupids	This is a very good novel, and it is very good because it touches eternal subjects and so will be able to be read and understood for many years to come. What are these subjects? Faith, God, goodness, sainthood, vocation, love and despair.<br />Querry is a very famous architect who at some point in his life feels a depressive boredom about love and his profession. he feels he has never been able to really love a woman, although money and fame have brought many of them to his bed, and he feels a total disdain for religion. So, feeling a terrible void in his life, and being sick of all those people adulating him and writing things that come only from their imaginations, he decides to run away from it all.<br />Choosing a destination by chance, he finds himself in a leprosary deep into &quot;the heart of darkness&quot;, in Congo. There, he feels relieved of people's false and volatile attention, and dedicates his energies to help out the priests, building a new hospital for them. He feels coming back to life again, doing something useful for people with a terrible, but now curable, disease. He finds the good company of Dr. Colin (my type of hero) and some of the priests. &quot;Far from the madding crowd&quot;, he starts rebuilding his connections to humankind, out of totally unselfish motivations.<br />And then... the stupid fools appear on stage. There are three of them: Rycker, a most unlikable man who has a very young and unhappy wife, the kind of fool who professes to love humankind but is unable to love the specific humans around him. Rycker spreads the word about Querry's identity and spreads also ridiculous stories about his supposed sainthood.<BR>Father Thomas, a nervous wreck of a man who also insists on Querry's sainthood. And finally, a despicable reporter, Parkinson, who starts publishing yellow and distorted articles about Querry. in the end, all this accumulates in the wrong way.<br />Full of deep but unpretentious reflections on the said subjects, this isa truly a novel of ideas and of hard dilemmas. Well recommended.	2002-07-23
1495281:US	49263512	R3B9KE5DXS1VH6	962634749X	111782299	A Study in Scarlet	Books	4	3	5	N	N	All fanaticisms provoke disgrace	I won't elaborate much on the plot of this first appearance by the \\"consultant detective\\" Holmes. My only point here is that Doyle was much more than a crime-fiction writer. He had more insight on the human being than simple riddle-solving.<BR>Certainly not the best of his stories, from the point of view of crime fiction, here Doyle tells us a story of how religious fanaticism always becomes a facade for the old and pure human ambition and lust. Intolerance, supported by the claims of Holy Men, always turns out to be in the material and carnal advantage of the suppopsedly saint people. Here we see the lives of John and Lucy Ferrier destroyed by the despotical power of the Mormon leaders. But Hope, Lucy's fiance, shows once more that man is free and should never subside to the arbitray impositions of despots. So he devotes his life to the pursuit of those who committed horrible crimes and destroyed his life and the lives of those he loved. That leads to the crimes that the great Mr. Holmes will solve using his incomparable powers of deduction.<BR>Some Holmes fans don't like the long flashback where we are told the story of the Ferriers, but I think that is precisely the feature that elevates Doyle's writings above the genre of simple \\"detective\\" stories. It gives the short novel value-added as literature. Of course I don't mean that Doyle's intention was to give moral lessons to humanity, he was far from that. But he could give more body to a simple murder-case.<BR>For the rest, I agree with most reviewers here at Amazon: the great value of this novella is to introduce us to Holmes and Watson, two of the best characters in all fiction.	2002-06-27
1500133:US	49263512	RKMTAY55VT1OZ	0452272971	999654006	A Very Long Engagement	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	War and true love	Five desperate men shoot themselves in order to be relieved from the horrifying frontline at the Somme, in WWI. A court-martial decides to punish them by leaving them alone in no-man's land, to be killed in the crossfire. Then all hell breaks loose and they all die. Or not? <BR>One of these men's fiance, a young girl who can't walk since age 3, receives information that makes her suspect his boyfriend might have gotten away alive. So she embarks in a painful, long and often frustrating ordeal to find out the truth.<BR>Along the way, I got to really love Matti. She's kinda spoiled and obstinate, but she is a wonderful person, full of true love. Other characters are equally appealing, and the story of Manech and his infortunate companions at war is revealed bit by it, through confusing memories and even contradictory pieces of information.<BR>We discover a terrible but beautiful story through what Clausewitz called \\"the fog of war\\". And this story is about courage, nobility, cruelty, loyalty, friendship and, above all, true love.<BR>Absolutely recommended, it is a novel that will easily remain in your memory.	2002-06-23
1596662:US	49263512	R1VOJ9BREA42ZK	0312873034	436502926	Typhoon (Tor Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A storm and how to survive it	Taking maximum advantage from his long years at sea, and from his innate insight into the human soul, Conrad tells an outright and direct story about a huge typhoon in the midst of the Yellow Sea. But the book is not so much about the storm in itself, but about the human character and how it reacts to disaster.<br />Captain MacWhirr is famous for being an efficient, calm, dull and silent man, someone you would trust but not like. He seems to be rather unbrilliant, though, never understanding why people talk so much. The other characters are also interesting, especially Jukes, the &quot;young Turk&quot;, vivid and dynamic; Solomon the head engineer, another wise man from the sea, and the disgusting and repugnant &quot;second officer&quot;, the type of coward you don't want to be with in this kind of drama.<br />Human character, then, is revealed by limit-situations much more than at any other time, as war literature fans know, and this tale will leave you wondering how YOU would react if you had to make decisions in the midst of a horrible, and wonderfully depicted, typhoon.	2002-04-02
1596893:US	49263512	R1P14X0SC629P3	9505810768	337749653	Tirano Banderas: Novela de Tierra Caliente (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The inauguration of a genre, big time.	With this novel published in 1926, Valle-Inclan inaugurated a sub-genre that has persisted to this day, with the publication in 1999 of \\"The Feast of the Goat\\" by Mario Vargas Llosa: the dicator novel, brilliantly excercised by Garcia-Marquez, Roa Bastos and Asturias.<br />In this great tale, the author creates a fictional Latin American country, which really sums up the basic representative traits of these lands: a dictator, the ruling elite, the revolutionaries, the foreign diplomats, etc. It's all color, fiesta, cruelty, corruption, cowardice and exploitiation.<br />The plot is simple: surrounded by revolutionary forces, the despotic dictator makes a big mistake whcih prompts his compadre Colonel de la Gndara to flee and join the rebels. This event unties a chain of investigations, betrayals, prosecutions and war, all in the midst of the annual festivities of the country.<br />Several characters are memorable: the dictator himself, Colonel de la Gndara, Nachito Veguillas and, above all, the corrupt, decadent, drug-addict, homosexual and transvestite Ambassador of Spain.<br />Written in an extremely baroque but nonetheless readable language, Tirano Banderas is a great Spanish novel which can be read and enjoyed today. Hint: don't miss the final two chapters, they're great.	2002-04-02
1668753:US	49263512	R17FOV5ZGW8TX3	0140262601	725968906	The War of the End of the World	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An epic mosaic with much to reflect on	I agree with most reviewers here that this is a work of epic proportions, excellently written and really deep. I think that there are two basic subjects here: the first one is religion.<br />Specifically, religion and how it influences the lives of people living at the borderlines of humanity: the poorest, the disabled, the pathetic, the tormented by horrible pasts. Also, the nature of Messiahs and the social movements they start on (I found it impossible not to think of Osama and the like).<br />The other main subject is politics and society in lands like Northeastern Brazil, with its past of colonialism, corruption, feudal structures, etc.<br />About the subject: briefly, a group of destitute people gather around a Messiah called the Counselor, and build a city that stands in rebellion against the recently installed Republic.<br />About the style and structure of the novel: I agree with those who say it reminded them of XIX-century novels, vast panoplies of characters situations, flashbacks and the like. The variety of the human soul and of human experience is even terrifying, as reflected by the stories of each character.<br />Strongly recommended, it should lead you to reads more by this author, one of the greatest today.	2002-02-03
1893968:US	49263512	R3DA05JM42J17H	0679731377	62087535	A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A witty glimpse at human history	From the enormous and chaotic tapestry of human history, Barnes opens ten windows and sees what's there. Unifying and conducting the thread are several and unlikely subjects: woodworm, Noah's ark, survival, love, and Man's folly. The chapters are not arranged in any specifical order, chronological or any other. Each one is the snapshot of a particular, relevant or irrelevant moment in mankind's long, convoluted and often tragical history. But each tiny story is told with a great sense of humor. The humor of someone with affection but without delusions about us and our human nature.<br />Noah's Ark travel told by an unlikely passenger; the reaction of a person in front of a terroris attack; the panic of nuclear destruction; religious fanaticism taken to an extreme; etc, each brief moment tells us something about how we are.<br />Oh, and love. The half chapter is a marvelous dissertation on love as a permanent, ambivalent force in history. A masterpiece of monologue, it displays the wit and wisdom of this valuable author. I don't think it exaggerated to say that Barnes's work is a demonstration of literature's always renewable capabilities. His is a literature firmly rooted in the Western tradition, yet possessed with a fresh and humorous look at us humans. Highly recommendable.	2001-08-02
1913760:US	49263512	RPV2XF6VTDTKN	0900821213	777661126	Isaac Rosenberg: Poet and Painter	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	One of the best poets of WWI	In this rare book, the biographer gives us an accurate and objective portrait of one of those young men who were talented but whose life was sadly taken away by the ferocity of World War I. Rosenberg was the son of Jewish parents who migrated to England from Lithuania. He and his family were always very poor. Nonetheless, Isaac managed always to find supporters, both emotional and material, for his studies and work. This in spite of his being awkward, shy and a strange mixture of modesty and pride. Rosenberg was a poet but also a painter. His life was a constant struggle to achieve means to go on with his work in the midst of severe poverty. After spending some time with his sister's family in South Africa, he returned to England and made the decision to enlist as a private in the Army. He was sent to France, where he proved a terribly incompetent soldier: he was permanently absent-minded, lousy and irritated. Nevertheless, he managed to write some of the best poems of the war. The central fact that distinguishes his poems from those of other contemporaries who shared the experience of war, like Edward Thomas, Wilfred Owen, Robert Graves or Siegfried Sassoon, is the dark sense of humor they display: &quot;Break of day at the trenches&quot; describes a rat passing over his body, while the soldier muses on the futility of war in a darkly humorous fashion. In fact, the original title was &quot;The neutral rat&quot;. Compare this to lamentations like &quot;Dulce et decorum est&quot;, by Thomas.<br />Rosenberg died on April 1st, 1918, after a ferocious counter-attack from the Germans, in the Battle of Arras. His body was never recovered, but his legacy if worth a look at.	2001-07-18
1913922:US	49263512	R1ZH9RM553H1X4	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	12	17	N	Y	You gotta give it five stars	OK, so it may not be the deepest reflection on life, nor a profound search for the human soul. And neither is it written in an elaborate fashion nor exploring new ways for literary expression. But I would be shocked to meet someone, at least a XX century, not extremely poor, male, who wouldn't identify with Holden at least in some passages. Most of us went to some phase in our lifes which we can relate to his. Certainly not the typical &quot;coming of age&quot; story, this book has a very well-known plot: <br />Holden Caulfield, a rich kid from Upper East Side, is expelled yet again from a preppy private school. It's Saturday, but Christmas vacation begins next Wednesday. So Holden takes off from school and goes to live to a hotel in NY. He hires a prostitute, drinks himself to unconscience, wanders around town, dates a girlfriend, and remembers his life.<br />So what's the fuss aboout a few days in the life of a spoiled adolescent facing life and getting confused and depressed? Of course, it's the character. The character is the most accurate method to measure a novel's quality. Plot and wording may be good: if the character is not attractive, the novel bombs. At least as a pleasure. Caulfield is smart, sensitive and down-to-earth. His love for his young sister Phoebe is tender but never corny. <br />The novel is hilarious because Holden is a very cool master of political incorrectness, an angry young man perfectly conscious of the phony characteristics of the game we all play. Something that surprised me a lot, not being an American nor a native English-speaker, is the amazing resemblance of 50's kid-speach with their 90's counterparts. The novel can be read like it was written last year, for Chrissake, with those annoying commonplaces, and all. No wonder it's still very much read.	2001-07-18
1915024:US	49263512	R2KAE8V472H6ZF	0140432337	596716152	The Ambassadors (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Difficult decisions elegantly explained	The knot of this novel is a moral dilemma: should we follow the right path fate seems to have decided for us, or should we do what we really want to do? Both alternatives have consequences, for good and bad. There are moments in life when we have to make difficult decisions which will change our life in a definitive way. This is what happens to the central characters in this novel. The plot is simple: Chad Newsome, a wealthy young man from Massachussetts, has been having the good life for too long now in Paris. His mother and sister (the father has died) have the terrible suspicion that he is living in &quot;sin&quot; with a wicked Parisian. So Mrs. Newsome sends his 50-something fiance Strether to look for him and bring him home. Only if he succeeds will Mrs. Newsome consent to marry him. So old Strether goes to Paris, finds the guy, tells him right away his intentions, and then nothing happens for months. Except, that is, for betrayals, switching alliances, a lot of gossip, parties, misunderstandings, and so on. Strether, a self-aware man, realizes little by little that he doesn't want to go back to New England for all the money in the world, and Mrs. Newsome has some, and also that Chad is no longer a spoiled kid , and that neither he wants to go back very much. The tension of the novel is built up little by little, in twisted, malicious and nuanced conversations that occur between all the characters. In the end, Strether resolves his moral dilemma somehow.<br />Much is said about James' prose going way over the top here in his overworked style. It's true, but nonetheless it is perfectly suited to the place, environment, plot and characters of his novel. It is certainly not an easy reading, but I did like it. James is really a master creator of athmospheres, of conversations and of subtleties. This is a novel to be read slowly, little by little, as the plot evolves gradually and without sudden jumps. If you like to appreciate the full potentialities of the English language at its most complex beauty, as a plus to a hard moral dilemma and splendid scenarios, try this novel, with patience.	2001-07-18
1940936:US	49263512	R1R6UPL8PMNJKW	158201731X	757366849	On the Makaloa Mat	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Beauty and drama	Jack London travelled extensively through the Southern Seas, living exciting but often frightening adventures that he later reflected on his short stories. London, a troubled adventurer who committed suicide, had a special sensibility to perceive, mix and express the juxtaposure of beauty and horror which reigned in non- or semi-civilized islands of the South Pacific. Frequently, his tales talk about the brutal confrontation between the white people and the aborigines, sometimes taking one side, sometimes the other, but most often simply depicting the sad consequences of the relationship. One exception to this is the tale that gives its name to this collection: &quot;On the Makaloa Mat&quot; is an extremely beautiful story about two Hawaiian sisters of mixed descent (3/4 white, 1/4 indigenous), from a very wealthy and noble family. Bella, the elder sister, tells the story of her one and only love, of course an unfortunate one. The story abounds in depictions of the lush landscapes of the Hawaiian islands, and of the strange social life of mid-XIX century. It is tragic but sweet, and I'd be surprised if someone hated it. Other tales are not sweet at all, like &quot;The Chinago&quot;, about the absurd execution of a Chinese laborer; &quot;The Terrible Solomon Islands&quot;, about a cruel joke played on a nave Englishman by brutal colonists; &quot;Koolua the leper&quot;, a short but epic story about man's indomitable lust for freedom, even in the most adverse and tragic circumstances; and &quot;The inevitable white man&quot;, a bloody, horrific and dark tale of adventures.<br />The stories abound with murders, blood and cruelness, but they're never cheap or vulgar. In fact, I give them five stars because I consider them to be masterpieces of storytelling. London has no mercy, but beneath the surface his characters are full of life, that plenty, wild life embedded in the white men who conquered the world, and the aborigines which suffered the conquest. Extremely recommended.	2001-06-28
1942152:US	49263512	R8QUZ5AR9V3Y0	0140446087	953554712	Praise of Folly (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	...and that's the truth	A full-front blast against the stupidities of us arrogant humans, with a crazy satirical sense of humor. Erasmus reminds us that we have no freakin' idea why we are here and who we are, so we better be humble and respect each other. &quot;In Praise of Folly&quot; was written during a horse travel from Rome to London, as a gift to Erasmus' close friend Thomas More, who was to die under the axe by orders of his former boss Henry VIII, exactly the kind of lunatic Erasmus pokes fun at in this book.<br />Erasmus strips naked the vanities of politicians, intellectuals, theologians, poets, monks, priests, Popes, magicians, etc. but the most surprising thing about this book first published in 1511 is its relevance to today's world. It even seems more relevant to our times than to his times!! Think about the celebrity system, when people read about soap-opera &quot;actors'&quot; opinions on God, politics and the environment, etc.<br />Very funny, very honest, very brave. Just imagine, in those times, stating the stupidity and sinfulness of the Pope no less. Erasmus wrote an extremely refreshing, smart, witty and wise book. If more people read it, the world would be a little less insufferable and more enjoyable. Please don't pay any attention to its age or to its classical references. The marrow of the book is just what you need to relax and see the world like it really is. In case you've ever read a self-help or &quot;excellence&quot; book, you'll never do it again: you'll be laughing your brain out at how shallow and stupid they are. Read it now.	2001-06-27
1943011:US	49263512	R1TIJGXL16JRMO	0750913371	257753104	Edward Thomas: The Last Four Years	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	A different love story	This is the story of the renowned poet Edward Thomas's last four years, told by Eleanor Farjeon, a wealthy woman who loved him very much, but who never told him so. Farjeon, a poet herself and writer of books for children, met Thomas in 1912. He was already married and had three children. They became very close friends, but, you know, in that discreet and rigid British-Victorian way (they, for example, kissed cheeks only once, when he was going to war).<br />Eleanor became also a close friend of Thomas's wife Helen. She knew Eleanor loved his husband, but she was assured that would never be a problem. In fact, Thomas's relationship with his wife was surprisingly &quot;modern&quot; and unconventional, even by today's standards. The story is full of repressed passions, interesting side-stories, intimate aspects of other famous poets' lives, including of course Robert Frost, the main influence in Edward Thomas's life, Walter de la Mare, and others.<br />The text makes full use of Thomas's letters to Eleanor, a glimpse into his intimate family life. It will be interesting to specialists, but also for those who want to have a close flavor of what life in those years was like in England. In the end, it's a wonderful love story, because it contains the elements of an impossible love and a tragic ending. Very tragic indeed. A plus is contained in the additional essays, where Eleanor remembers his beloved one, forty years after his death.	2001-06-27
1944962:US	49263512	RXA8P62E57M44	0451523938	732800244	Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde (Signet Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Mr. Hyde inside us	Henry Jekyll is a renowned scientist and a respected man. But lately, his behavior has become strange, reclusive and mysterious. So his friend Utterson tries to find out what he's up to. In the meantime, terrible and strange things are happening by night in the streets of London. As the tale unfolds, we discover Jekyll's dangerous games with his own psyche. He discovers a drug that reveals his evil side, without any moral restraint, and gradually loses control of the drug. The narrative technique of Stevenson in this short masterpiece is simply perfect; its philosophical stand is frightening; its moral implications are relevant; and the construction of the story superb.<br />The onion-layer style serves very well its mission to reveal every event in a semi-slow but tense pace. The environment is insuperable: the dark, wet and gas-lighted streets of London, where Mr. Hyde's steps resonate frighteningly. The ending is horrifying and very well written and, overall, this is a gem of a book. It should be best read in loneliness, in the dark. It is much more than a simple horror novel, because it says something very real and very terrible: without moral restraints, our deeper self can be unbearably evil. It's true.	2001-06-25
1945017:US	49263512	R12JW443LGWO25	0486275477	70703041	The Open Boat and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Hard stories for hard times	Stephen Crane died at the early age of 29, but in his writing he shows what he'd come through in life. I think his style is mature and hardened up, due to a life spent in difficult times. In &quot;The Blue Hotel&quot;, he depicts a brief, brutal and enigmatic moment in the lives of several residents and migrants in Nebraska, a stupid and cruel fight in the midst of a snow blizzard.<br />The rest of the stories have to do with Civil War episodes and other moments in the US history. My favorite tale is the one that's on the cover of the book: the Open Boat. It is masterfully told, the story is tense, sad and exciting. The reader can feel the up and down movement of the boat, the cold wetness of the clothes, the seasickness the characters suffer, the desolation at every failure to approach the coast, the relationship between the characters, etc. It is a pity that Crane died so young, since in these short stories he shows himself as a talented, gifted and mature writer.	2001-06-25
1945085:US	49263512	R15RQ00BGBSRZE	0192834401	950133441	The Castle of Otranto: A Gothic Story	Books	4	82	87	N	N	The original Gothic novel	Manfred is an usurpator who wants to consolidate his reign over Otranto. So he tries to marry his weak son to Isabella, heir to a more legitimate prince. But there is an old prophecy which warns against such moves, and the day of the wedding a gigantic iron helmet falls over Manfred's son's head. Then, a creepy -mostly funnily creepy- tale develops. But the plot, though wild and entertaining, is the least important thing about this 1764's novel.<br />The really attractive, entertaining and literarily important thing is the creation of stereotypes: the foul weather; an ancient, dark castle full of closed halls, secret passages, corridors and doors; frightening apparitions; wicked tyrants desperate for fertile women; virtuous and pure ladies; heroic lads; dark and cold forests where ghosts appear, etc. Walpole, who seems to have been an interesting man, must have had enormous fun writing this tone-setting book, which has had plenty of children in literature. When I read it I kept imagining the scenes, the settings and the weather, and it was great to imagine it come alive. Literarily imperfect, it is fun to read and to discover where many of the commonplaces in Gothic literature come from. Well worth it.	2001-06-25
1945437:US	49263512	R9B9AEMKG3AWH	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Gothic fun	This novel has a special charm to it, due to the legendary character of Dracula, and its claim to &quot;originality&quot; in the interpretation of the myth. Of course, this novel has had an enormous influence in subsequent reinterpretations, in literature and cinema. The first part is the creepiest, the story of Jonathan Harker's tribulations at the mysterious castle of Dracula, in Transylvania. That was really great. The rest of the story, which happens in England (except the finale) is also creepy and enigmatic, with a different flavor: the Victorian idiosyncracy and the tightening plot are very good, even though I understand those who complain about Lucy's story being long and somewhat repetitive.<br />Of course, the best thing about the book is the literary technique: the fragments of diaries, the letters and newspaper clippings add much to the mystery. Also, this narrative techinque allows for variety of points of view and sources of information, which round it up pretty well. The tone and athmospheres are successively creepy and hysterical, creating a tense and dark environment.<br />Even if it has some flaws, &quot;Dracula&quot; should be considered a great novel. The entertainment it provides is exciting, and its influence makes it transcendental. Besides, it's always cool to go to the &quot;original&quot; source of a myth.	2001-06-25
1959390:US	49263512	R2FK78058SJ1JT	019282211X	624859527	Wilfred Owen (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	A very good biography	This is as complete a biography as there can be about a peculiar character. The author takes advantage of his friendship with Wilfred Owen's brother Harold, to get access to family documents and memories indispensable to get to know his subject better. The tone of the biography is balanced, objective and critical: it is not an elegy nor an attack.<br />Now, Wilfred Owen is one of the best poets of WWI, and his carrer is interesting and, above all, intriguing. Up until he's 20 or so, he's not a very likable character. His mother was a prudish Calvinist, tyranical and at times over-protecting, but she also supported Wilfred at every stage, especially in his early ambitions to be a great poet.<br />The interesting change is the one Wilfred experiences after he decides to volunteer for the Army. He changes, from being a pretentious, pompous and picky young man, to a courageous, strong, enduring leader. This change is best reflected in his attitude towards war itself: at first, he sees war as a glorious thing, a wonderful place to show grandiosity. Then, after bitter experiences, he realizes that war is not wonderful, but horrible, cruel, unjust. So the tone of his poetry changes from epic to lyrical. The interesting thing is that he is against war and its continuation, but in the meantime behaves bravely and disciplined in battle. <br />Another good thing about this book is its ability to capture the way of life, places, activities and feelings of that era.<br />This is, then, a book of interest for lovers of poetry and people who like to read about WWI.	2001-06-14
1959568:US	49263512	R1XHLSSLS9ZETE	0679602860	655554658	Don Quixote de La Mancha (Modern Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Just read it	This is not a book to read in a few long sittings; its short chapters and diversified plot allows you to read bits of it slowly, to enjoy its subtle messages and subplots. I just took a tour of reviews here, and the simple fact that it spurs so much controversy and different interpretations attests to its grandiosity.<br />The &quot;plot&quot; is well-known: an old gentleman reads so many chivalry stories that he comes to think of himself as one great knight, and so sets about to find adventures, to &quot;right wrongs and injustices&quot;. He takes his neighbor Sancho Panza as his servant. There's much you can see in the book: analogies, metaphors, allegories. Idealism/pragmatism; honor/convenience, etc. It's funny, it's crude, it's tough, it's tender, it's rude.<br />Some value-added is the glimpse on Medieval-turning-Renacentist Spain, the life on the roads, the bandits, the &quot;hotels&quot; and the idiosincracy of the time. Other characters are also memorable, and some of the sub-stories, which bother some readers, I think they're great.<br />So this very old book deserves all the praise it gets, although negative opinions are also respectable. It has aged well in my opinion, because it is about eternal features of us humans.	2001-06-14
2022332:US	49263512	R2IYDCKOPKRD73	1852427264	163605681	Pedro Paramo (Five Star)	Books	5	77	81	N	N	Haunting, dry, windy, dusty	Unfortunately, Rulfo is much, much less known outside Latin America than other writers from the region, due to the fact that he is long dead and that he was a reclusive, almost misanthrope man, a shy and timid character. In contrast, writers like Garcia Marquez, Vargas Llosa, etc., are brilliant men, fond of being celebrities and lecturing around the world, as well as giving their opinions about politics and social issues.<br />And one more thing: while most Latin American famous writers talk about lush tropical sceneries populated by exotic, wild people with an over-the-top language full of colorful images, Rulfo uses a reworked, concise, precise and dry language to paint sad, desperate, fussy tales of opression, violence, solitude. But oh he writes so well.<br />Juan Preciado comes to Comala looking for his estranged father, Pedro Paramo. In this town, the dead and the alive mingle together and talk, the epochs overlap. Bit by bit we are told a violent and dark story, with somber and convoluted characters. In the end it is a tale of war, perversion, solitude and other themes common to Latin American literature, but seen from a very unusual perspective. And Rulfo reveals as an extremely self-demanding author: every sentence is worked and reworked to utter perfection. Read it, it's magical.	2001-04-24
2022350:US	49263512	R3R1MAYP6IY5T5	1853261742	751067545	Nostromo (Wordsworth Classics) (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The creation of a world with real humans	This magnificent novel is proof of the importance of character-development in literature. As I have said several times in these reviews, the main reason why a book of fiction becomes a classic is that it can be interpreted from different -even opposite- points of view.<br />Plus, you have a wonderful tale of political intrigue, adventures in the sea, romance, decadence and violence, set in a fictional South American, exotic nation with a lush subtropical landscape, and you are in for a treat. And Conrad is simply excellent at crafting sentences that you will remember. <br />The plot: Costaguana is in the middle of political upheaval. Sulaco, the Western province, is rich and relatively peaceful, thanks to the asset represented by the San Tom Mines, rich in silver. When the town is in danger of being seized by corrupt rebel forces, the need arises to save the most recent lot of silver. Nostromo, an Italian of great prestige and courage who works at the docks, is charged with the responsibility to save the silver. He will be assisted by Decoud, an expatriate who has come back in search of the woman he loves, but who has become entangled in politics. The chapters about their escape aboard a small boat, in the darkest night, are impressive. From then on, everything will be adventure, intrigue and violence. The tension builds up excitingly, and at the end, what has to happen happens.<br />The magical side of this novel is that Conrad creates a whole country, with its history, geography, society. As I said before, the development of the characters is excellent. We get to know the Gould house just as well as the inhabitants (and you can't help desiring to have met Mrs. Gould); we know the story of Dr. Monygham (for me, the real hero of the novel), of Don Jos Avellanos and his daughter, of Decoud, of Giorgio Viola. Curiously enough, the most enigmatic person is Nostromo himself (and certainly not the most likable): all we know is that he's arrogant, brave, smart and insufferably vain. But don't worry, he'll get what he deserves. By the moment it happens, you will have enjoyed a tropical tale of epic proportions, full of well-rounded, complete personalities competing for power, money, love or honour. The novel is rich with revealing passages, among them, besides the escape in the dark: Nostromo and the Doctor's dialogue as a high point in the tension of the book; Nostromo's awakening after returning to land, surely the most beautifully written chapter; and the final confrontation. Great book.	2001-04-24
2038639:US	49263512	R1VYM3SVHH1UY7	0486278042	841295270	Antigone (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Irreconcilable moral imperatives	Antigone is perhaps the first tragedy to elaborate directly on the subjects of personal, family moral imperatives, against the collective moral imperatives of the State. Although from a sentimental point of view it is easy to root for Antigone, we have to understand Creon's position: Polyninces has been a traitor to the State and deserves to be punished.<br />The plot: After Oedipus's death, his twin sons fight in different factions. Etheocles defends Thebes while Polynices attacks it at the siege. Eventually they kill each other simultaneously. After the battle is over, Thebes's king Creon orders that Polynices must remain unsepulted (as was the custom in Greece) and that whoever tries to bury him must also die. This is a terrible order for Antigone, the younger sister of the clashing twins, who feels that it is her duty as a sister to bury both of her brothers and not just one. The personal, family morality requires her to do her duty; political responsibility requires Creon to impose an exemplary punishment on the one who betrayed his city (for whatever reason). Although the plot is very well known, I'll conclude by saying that the dramatic tension is extreme, and that the ending is terribly violent. This play's subtitle could be  &quot;Political order vs. human dignity&quot;, or even better &quot;Sometimes, moral dilemmas just can't be resolved&quot;. Of course, it is one great source for Western literature and philosophy and it is a Classic all around.	2001-04-10
2038674:US	49263512	R8REFB26PCN9N	0195128192	352408221	Aias (Greek Tragedy in New Translations)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	&quot;The Gods blind those they want to destroy&quot;	&quot;Ajax&quot; is a tragedy in which the Gods intervene directly and permanently, altering the course of events. Its main subject is envy. After Achilles dies in the Trojan war, a jury is convened to decide who should receive his weapons and armor as heritage. After deliberating, the jury decides Ulysses is the warrior who deserves the most to be Achilles's heir. Then, Ajax, another brave and distinguished warrior, is totally enraged and mad with fury. As he decides to kill Ulysses and his followers, the goddess Athena &quot;blinds&quot; him and makes him take horses and sheeps for Ulysses and his men. And so he kills all the animals. But when he discovers what he has done, he commits suicide. We can see the other side of envy, magnanimity, when Agammemnon and Menelaus reject Ajax's burial (the standard punishment for traitors), but the noble Ulysses allows it. Throughout the play, you'll feel the bad feeling of envy poisoning the tale.	2001-04-10
2038818:US	49263512	R2K3N6JAK5593A	0671888048	857519991	Oedipus the King (Enriched Classics Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is a tragedy	The central statement of Greek tragedy is that Man can not control his Destiny; that there is an ineluctable Fate, preordained and inescapable. No matter how much the poor humans fight against it, it must be fulfilled. And there is no character as tragic as Oedipus in all literature. In this play, we see Oedipus as a successful man who has become King of Thebes, happily married to an older woman named Iocasta. As the play unfolds, we can feel the proximity of something terrible indeed. When the blind sage Tiresias starts to unfold the true story of Oedipus, we can creepily feel the sheer horror that grips him, as he learns that he has killed his father and married his mother, unknowingly. I have no notice of any other plot that can be described as more tragic than this one. Besides, it is one of the main sources of our culture, as with all true Classics. Oedipus summarizes some of our worst fears and traumas: the need to &quot;kill the paternal figure&quot;, the &quot;dependency on our mother&quot;, the &quot;impossibility of control external forces that shape our fate&quot;. It is horrific and fascinating, and there is simply no way to be indifferent to it.	2001-04-10
2039073:US	49263512	RBLD703O2G7S	0671722719	43217624	Julius Caesar (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Once again, morality vs. politics	This superb play by Shakespeare somehow reminded me of Antigona, the first play which directly examined the always complex interplay and usual confrontation between political reason and moral reason. This play is an excellent account of the immediately previous and subsequent days of Julius Caesar's assasination by Brutus, his best friend, and other conspirators. Brutus is persuaded by the resentful Cassius that Caesar has betrayed Rome by abandoning the Republic and turning to Dictatorship. Brutus gets to be convinced that, in order to save the Republic, Caesar must be killed. This puts him in a great dilemma, for he loves Caesar and he's his closest friend. Here we see in an acute form the way in which political power gets in conflict with morality and feelings. Friendship, power and betrayal are the basic subjects of this excellent piece of work.	2001-04-10
2066808:US	49263512	RA1ZBWW72QJH2	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	4	109	130	N	N	An attack on delusional arrogance	This is a funny and truly provocative book. By &quot;intellectual&quot;, Johnson means scientists or artists who go well beyond their abilities and try to design new codes of behavior, new systems of government and new moral rules for the humankind. That is, people who, just because they are good at doing something, think they get the moral right (and duty) to tell the rest of the world how to conduct their affairs. <br />Through several biographic essays, Johnson shows just how dangerous some intellectuals can become, and at the same time he shows us the low level of their ethical record. Undoubtedly, he exaggerates at some points, and in some other his gossipy is too much, but beyond that, his thesis is valid and solidly grounded. I agree with the central idea: that being a good poet, playwright or mathematician doesn't mean that one is qualified to give opinions about every possible subject, the more politicized, the better. Johnson correctly rejects utopianisms and Messiah-like behaviors. Of course, the bad moral credentials of these people does not diminish the quality of their work in the least, but the book rightly states that arrogant intellectuals are also capable of saying and doing stupid things. Don't buy it? Check out newspapers and magazines and see European and American &quot;intellectual celebrities&quot; talk about complex conflicts in other parts of the world, of which they know nothing but nonetheless give radical -and frequently imbecile- opinions.	2001-03-16
2067245:US	49263512	R2TEL56513CAMJ	0671722859	43217624	Romeo and Juliet	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The pure essence of love	I won't summarize the plot, as it is one of the best-known tales in all literature, and deservedly so. Being a classic, it can be read from different perspectives and standpoints. For me, it is a study on passion, of instantaneous, immediate and eternal passion of love; absolute and without doubts; pure and immaculate. The lovers never have to discover the realities of living together. Their love stays in an absolute state of pureness. So, it is a vision of love in its most extreme state.<br />Shakespeare's true genius can be  observed in the fact that all of his plays, especially this one, can and have been adapted to a wide array of ages, places and circumstances. The story is universal because so is the passion it examines.<br />The characters are unbelievably strong and accurate. The environment is wonderful Middle Ages Italy. The plot is twisted yet simple, and the Bard's sentences are pure poetry of the highest kind. No one should die without having read &quot;Romeo and Juliet&quot;.	2001-03-16
2067678:US	49263512	R13I80FQXEFSCD	1572596449	44616953	Macroeconomics	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent textbook	Gregory Mankiw's book is the best source I found for understanding Macroeconomics. He uses the Solow model for the long run, and then moves on to neo-Keynesian models for the short run. Its style is simple, direct, and conversational. The case studies, the examples, the stories and the graphics are extremely useful and even fun to read. If you feel afraid or lazy about Macroeconomics, this is the best book you'll find. You will end up actually liking the subject, a very important one to understand not only if you want to be an economist, but also if you want to understand the most important events going on in the world.	2001-03-15
2068033:US	49263512	RLMK1HL3WVVC0	0195070356	965854381	The Highest Stakes: The Economic Foundations of the Next Security System (BERKELEY ROUNDTABLE ON THE INTERNATIONAL ECONOMY)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Still relevant and interesting	In this book, published in 1992, a group of academics from the Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy have written a series of brilliant and provocative essays on the economic foundations of the next security system, that is, of the XXI century. They define three broad scenarios: a) Controlled multilateralism; b) coexistence of blocks; and c) neomercantilism. <br />So far, it seems that they were right in predicting that the most likely and desirable outcome would be some form of controlled multilateralism. Certainly, it could be said that coexistence of blocks is also a reality, but we are seeing a lot more interrelation between these blocks than what the scenario took into account. Some countries have built institutional bridges across the blocks, like Mexico, which belongs to NAFTA, but also has a Free Trade Agreement with the European Union, several Latin American countries, Israel, and is now negotiating one with Japan, beyond its membership in APEC.<br />The security system seems to stay also within controlled multilateralism, as actions on the former Yugoslavia and Irak show. Summing up, the book's arguments and points are still relevant to analyze the world's options regarding this new century. The interplay between the economic and the security systems are clearly defined, and the tone of the book is objective, neither overly optimistic nor pessimistic. It's good analysis, even if not each and every detail is still accurate. Recommended for students of very different specialties: international economics, national security, prospective studies, etc.	2001-03-15
2068240:US	49263512	R1M6LC5ZSR900J	0231052499	8566258	Political Liberalism	Books	5	62	66	N	N	The good society	Building upon his previous book, &quot;A Theory of Justice&quot;, Rawls's thought evolves towards a better comprehension of society, constitutions, and what kind of institutional engineering would be able to best design a &quot;good&quot; (as opposed to &quot;perfect&quot;) society. Now, Rawls has revised his previous conception of society: it is not necessary that a society is relatively homogeneous in the moral beliefs of its elements; it is sufficient that the political institutions are suitable to accomodate every line of thought that is not against the &quot;overlapping consensus&quot; of society. <br />What is this? Rawls calls &quot;overlapping consensus&quot; those beliefs and principles about which every societal group is coincident. The most obvious is that murder is not acceptable and should be hardly punished, that people's goods have to be protected from theft, that free speech should be guaranteed, etc. The overlapping consensus is the sum of every group's own consensus, and thus it should be the core of the Constitution: the principles on which everybody, or almost everybody excluding criminals and other misfits, agree.<br />Second, Rawls reviews his concept of the &quot;original position&quot;. Many critics of Rawls argue that this concept is totally theoretical and impossible to achieve in practice. And they're right. This is not a manual for politicians or a book on public policy: it's pure political philosophy, and certainly of the highest sort. In the &quot;original position&quot;, Rawls says that good constitutions and legal systems would be best accomplished by people ignorant of their position in society. For example, if you do not know what your social position will be, you better design a law that takes into account rights and benefits for people with every kind of handicap, lest you turn out to be blind, or deaf. Similarly, you wouldn't either be excessively hard on rich people, lest you turn out to be a big shareholder. If some approach like this could be reached when making laws, society would be better balanced and more just.<br />Third, Rawls reviews and upholds his concept of &quot;justice as fairness&quot;, the core of his previous book on this subject. To be just is to be fair. Sounds simple, but it's not always easy to determine what is fair to someone. But it implies that public policy on justice should not aim at correcting situations out of all proportion. <br />Summing up, this is an extraordinary book, even if you feel you belong to a different school of thought. It makes you think of what kind of good society is really achievable, far from the disastrous attempts at building utopias that the XX century witnessed.	2001-03-15
2068701:US	49263512	R2CMTHX8A4DL1N	0679747052	926056210	Preparing for the Twenty-First Century	Books	2	17	27	N	N	Dated by now	Back in 1993, the book sounded ominously prescient. Those were the years when the intellectual fashion was to predict the demise of the US and the coming supremacy of Germany and Japan (Lester Thurow, etc.). Kennedy said Japan, with its cohesive, educated society, would do better than the US and Europe, with their aging, diverse populations. Well, it's still early in the century to say anything, but so far Japan's homogeneous society looks stagnant, while the US and many European societies are extremely dynamic, thanks in good part to the energy of immigrants. <br />Of course it is not a dumb book. Kennedy is intelligent as a historian, but makes a very poor prophet (the Rise and Fall of the Great Powers is another interesting but very flawed book). Kennedy does not talk about Internet, for example. Not his fault, certainly, but anyway it's a thing to miss in a prediction of what the XXI century will be like. Summing up, the book was interesting eight years ago, but by now it looks very dated. Prophesizing is always an exciting but risky game to play.	2001-03-15
2071538:US	49263512	R1A92HXDEV236T	0679736158	333607352	The Work of Nations: Preparing Ourselves for 21st Century Capitalism	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The part on kinds of jobs is good	The usefulness of this bok comes from its accurate and original analysis on the classes of jobs that exist today: Symbols analysis, in-person services, and routine laborers. Basically, any job can fit in this classification, except, for example, professional athletes (at least I am doubtful about where they would fit). As for the solutions to the growing gap between rich and poor, please note that this is a most complex problem or, better, set of problems. There is simply no clearcut recipe for abridging economic and social gaps, since each national situation is different. Some things we know that are indispensable, but not always enough: investment in infrastructure, public education, health, etc. We know that civic values are important and what investments are needed, but HOW to do it remains the core of serious political debate. Certainly, I don't think that for nations like the US, &quot;strategic trade&quot; might be a solution (it relays on the basic statist assumption: that a group of bureaucrats will know better than the market what to do with resources). Nevertheless, I did find the book interesting and thought-provoking, even if some of its proposals are somewhat outdated nowadays.	2001-03-12
2072272:US	49263512	RM0DARY5YFSSK	0226183998	195053144	Constructing the Political Spectacle	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Sadly true	This book is a clear and thorough analysis of one of the worst shortcomings of contemporary politics, democratic or tyrannical: the transformation of the public sphere into a mere show, a spectacle for audiences, not for citizens. Substance is always constricted by the spectacle. Hard, evident truths can not be expressed for fear of enraging the audience. Irrelevant debates obscure the issues our societies should be discussing. Politics as spectacle is what explains the kind of political leaderships, enmities and controversies that exist. Murray Edelman is very good at telling some of the hard truths I mentioned, one of the most important being that new political leaders, right from the start of their careers, have to follow the rules of politics as spectacle, otherwise, their careers get to nothing and they are unable to accomplish anything anyway, talented and brave as they may be. Politics as spectacle is the cause that a whole nation is for years focused on the sexual errands of a President, while other important things are happening to that very nation, with seldom anybody pointing at the real issues.  Politics as spectacle is the cause that a crazy Marxist with a pipe and a ski mask marches around a nation (Mexico) with supporters who know nothing about the issues in discussion.<br />Summing up, Edelman has written a very good argument about how politics is the construction of a big spectacle in which every actor plays its role. One very interesting point brought up by Edelmann is that ethnic and religious conflicts are usually the result of manipulative politics by skilled but immoral politicians. That is, if those potential conflicts have nothing to give to political leaders, most likely they will not erupt, but will be solved in time. I think this book is a must read for anybody interested in knowing how contemporary politics (and, I would say, politics in all yimes) are constructed. Once you know the truth, you will be far harder to deceive.	2001-03-12
2074759:US	49263512	R19XEYC13BLUZW	0781802148	610706085	The Mandarin (AND OTHER STORIES)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fantastic literature	This is a collection of short stories by a master writer, sadly little known in the English-speaking world. &quot;The Mandarin&quot; is the first one and the best. An obscure Portuguese bureaucrat is visited by a demon, who tells him that, if he shakes a little bell the demon carries, in that moment a Chinese Mandarin will die, leaving him all his fortune. The man does it, and immediately the fortune of the Mandarin appears before him. But he won't be happy: the man begins to be haunted by remorse and regret, and so he decides to go to China to look for the Mandarin's family, now disposseses, and give them back their father's fortune. What follows is an extraordinary and unbelievable tale of soul-searching, of the punishment against ambition and irresponsibility, always with a dark-humored touch. <br />&quot;The catastrophe&quot; is a story against civic apathy and in favor of patriotism. &quot;Memories of the gallows&quot; is the least accomplished of the volume, slow and sentimental. &quot;The treasure&quot; is an excellent tale about unlimited ambition. &quot;The dead&quot; is narrated in a Medieval-like style. It's the fantastic story of a young man who gets involved in a turmoil of passion and jealousy, from which he's rescued by a dead, hung man. It's terrorific and very well written; the images impossible to forget.<br />This book was my introduction to one really great writer, whose famous novels I look forward to read. His main characteristics are: a fluent domination of very different styles and environments, as well as a fine use of irony and sarcasm.	2001-03-09
2074976:US	49263512	RU2PDDVV8KUAO	0292764774	392252757	Poems of Andre Breton: A Bilingual Anthology (English and French Edition)	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Stream of consciousness and the pure pleasure of words	Most of these poems are purely surrealistic, and some others include political and social statements or hints, the &quot;Ode to Fourier&quot; being the most important of these ones. Charles Fourier, a Frenchman from the XIX century, was the creator of &quot;Utopic socialism&quot;, which viewed Socialism's mission as the building of a completely new civilization, and not the reform of the existing ones. Breton and most of the Surrealistic movement were politically opinionated, and supporters of Communist parties and Communism in general (although they never lived in a Communist society; much on the contrary, they enjoyed very much the advantages and comfort of the West, always indulgent with its hypocritical intellectuals).<br />But, beyond his political opinions, Breton was an extremely important poet and, I would say, a very enjoyable one. That is, if you enjoy poetry for the sake of poetry. In his purely poetical poems, you won't find clear or straightforward messages: it's just the flow of thought and feeling being automatically translated into the paper. The best ones are: &quot;Fata Morgana&quot;, &quot;Pleine Marge&quot;, &quot;Les Etats Generales&quot;, and &quot;Oublis&quot;. These poems are not easy to read, but they are extremely creative in the best sense of the term. Onirical images, impossible, absurd, with passages and sentences of an incredible and totally unexpected beauty. I think that the best form to read them is to indulge in the wording and following it right through the end. You may reread later to better appreciate the images.	2001-03-09
2075160:US	49263512	R2ATMPJ7UL48GA	8420641294	74840671	Ideas Y Creencias/ Ideas and Beliefs: Y otros ensayos de Filosofia/ And Other Phylosophy Essays (Obras de Jose Ortega y Gasset) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Original thought	When I first read this book, I found it extremely original: certainly, although I had read serious philosophy before, I had never thought about it: ideas and beliefs are different, but we usually think of some thoughts as ideas, while in fact they are just beliefs. We have ideas, but we are IN beliefs. We create ideas, but we don't create beliefs: we adopt them. Beliefs are the basic intellectual assumptions upon which we build our view of the world. Following our reason, and building upon those beliefs, we develop ideas. For example: I have never been to Australia, but I am certain it exists. That's not an idea; it's a belief. This essays are very useful to understand the different categories of thoughts that our mind bears and produces. The style is clear and straightforward, as usually with Ortega.<br />The rest of the essays verse about Herbart, a German Romantic philosopher, from whom Ortega analyses his most relevant work, that on psychology and pedagogy, and about psychoanalysis, the perception about other people, sincerity, the dilemma reason/feelings, partisanship as an attitude.	2001-03-09
2075725:US	49263512	RI90QU6CKB2AP	0486264734	388204122	Bartleby and Benito Cereno	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Psychological mysteries	These two tales are very different, but both of them are deep and acute penetrations into the human psyche. The first one, &quot;Benito Cereno&quot; is about a mutiny on board of a ship. This ship is navigating astray, off the coast of Chile (which is NOT in Central America, as other reviewers have embarrasingly said), when Captain Delano, an American sailor, observes it. He gets near the suspicious ship, gets on board of it, and finds an extremely tense and enigmatic situation. Wonderfully, Melville chose to describe the situation only through the senses of Captain Delano. As the narrator is not omniscient, we only know what Delano knows, so we understand his confusion and amazement at the strange facts he observes. We share his vacilations, speculations and changes of opinion before the disconcerting behavior of Captain Benito Cereno. This makes the reader stay interested all through the story, like he was there being part of it. The unexpected ending will solve the mystery, but only partially. <br />What's best about this story, even more than the smart plot, is the author's technique. He puts the reader right in the middle of the action. Just like in life, where we have no narrator telling us what the rest of the characters are doing &quot;meanwhile&quot;. We only know what we learn from our senses, hopefully processed through reason.<br />The second tale, &quot;Bartleby the scrivener&quot; follows a technique similar to that of &quot;Benito Cereno&quot;, but within a very different context and plot. It's narrated in first person by a good-hearted and charitable Wall Street lawyer (I guess times have changed)who hires a young and silent man as a copyist (that is, before Xerox, the guy who made manual copies of legal documents). Bartleby sets to do his work, copying page after page, but he refuses to do anything else, with the words: &quot;I would rather not&quot; as an answer to every order, instruction or request to do something. Tenaciously, Bartleby resists to any action. It's a pathological portrait of indifference and apathy, taken to the extreme. As in &quot;Benito Cereno&quot;, we receive no additional explanations or background to his behavior. We are exactly where Bartleby's boss is: confounded. We are invited to witness a unique form of behavior and attitude towards life. The naration jumps continuously from drama to humor, with great fluidity and fine irony. Haunting and intriguing, this is a masterpiece of storytelling.	2001-03-09
2088810:US	49263512	R3NKAOYOTJQ9IO	0810160781	380575035	The Guiltless	Books	4	40	40	N	N	A study on indifference	This novel was born out of several previous short novellas, which Broch weaved together, adding new chapters and orderered to tell one multilayered story, a rich, complex and deep one. It is the story of A., a Dutch financier who lives in Germany. The three parts of the book correspond to the years 1913, 1923 and 1933. Besides portraying the pre-Hitlerian Germany, it is a metaphysical novel, in the strictest sense of the concept. The fundamental subject is indifference as an attitude towards life. &quot;A&quot; is indifferent to practically everything, including the suffering of his lover and, of course, political and social problems. The book is called &quot;The guiltless&quot; because no one assumes themselves as responsible for the dangerous path Germany was following in those years. However, &quot;A&quot; will pay a price for his indifference. <br />This novel is, then, a reflection on the social environment that led to Nazism. Broch is a dense but good writer, and I think this novel is recommended to any serious lovers of literature, but also for those interested in observing a recreation and a meditation on Germany in those three crucial decades for the world.	2001-02-26
2091827:US	49263512	R1TTGNZS6VYJRD	0824004590	727992267	FARABEUF (World Literature in Translation)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The novel of an instant	This most innovative of novels is about an instant. While, in the Rue de l'Odeon, Dr. Farabeuf executes an erotic-chirurgical rite, the couple (one couple) remember the moment of execution by torture of a Chinese man in 1901, immortalized in a photograph. Farabeuf's lover assumes herself as the tortured Chinese (who is also Christ), making torture the equivalent of ardent love: the fusion of extreme pain and extreme pleasure.<br />&quot;What??!!&quot; you'll ask yourself. Don't worry, in this experimental novel the plot is only a vehicle for &quot;pure&quot; literature: a game with words, in an extremely sophisticated fashion. This book is a constant mirror-game of identities, places and times, but in the end it's not more than the &quot;chronicle of an instant&quot;: the moment identities merge and ends meet. <br />This novel is extremely intelligently written, told in a time at the same time isolated from its course but recurring. Everything develops around the moment in which &quot;she&quot; runs to the window and as she passes her foot hits the leg of the iron table over which Dr. Farabeuf has the tools to execute his erotic-chirurgical rite. Filled with multiple solutions, this consummate literary trick is a clinical, almost scientific elaboration with words. Only for real lovers of serious (not necessarily boring) literature. PS: and it shows that Mexican literature is not only &quot;magical realism&quot; or bananas with pineapples.	2001-02-23
2091828:US	49263512	R9SU6YVD677QK	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Lolita, light of my eyes...	This is the wonderful &quot;autobiographic&quot; account of Humbert Humbert's passion for Lolita, a 12-year-old girl. Humbert is an excentric middle-aged European emigr to America, who rents an appartment at a boarding house and falls desperately in love with the beautiful daughter of the widow owner. He devises a plot to be able to live close to the object of his obsession, and then Fate makes a trick. This will make Humbert travel around the United States with her, fulfilling his sexual fantasies. No good will come out of this slippery slope, but the plot is not the most important thing about the book.<br />What's remarkable is not that the book tells such perverted facts, but the way in which Nabokov almost convinces the reader that the affair is legitimate and desirable. The reader comes to wish that Humbert gets what he lusts after, even if reason keeps reminding us that something is very wrong in the sexual relations between a grown man and a child. Beyond that, the form of the book -its literature- is the subject. It is a perfect mix of fine irony and infinite and desperate tenderness. The metaphors Nabokov uses are practically insuperable. It is a disconcerting, unforgettable and lovable novel. Every paragraph has an intrinsec beauty to it, that you'll find yourself rereading many of them. It is a book to be rejoiced in, to marvel at the power of words to create, recreate and leave the reader in total awe. All the praise this novel has commanded is justified; all attacks on its subject are unjustified. However distorted and reprehensible, Humbert's love for Lolita is absolut. The narration, in the form of a self-defense addressed to the jury, made me feel so happy about not being part of it: I would have acquitted the defendant, even if I knew he was guilty. Such is the power and mastery of Nabokov's literature. Don't be ashamed of falling in love with Lolita: you are perfectly justified and it's only a book, but, like they say on TV shows: don't try thisat home.	2001-02-23
2091862:US	49263512	R1YAZCYLLVFJV6	0821224581	925986418	A Season in Hell	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The hell within	These are the brilliant and mystical hallucinations of the original &quot;enfant terrible&quot; and his visionary raptures about poetry, innocence and guilt. Verbal deliriums suffused with pain and hatred, remorse and desperation, but also with a parodic, pathetic and fatalistic megalomania. The &quot;mystical rage&quot; transformed into pyromaniac wording. Poems in prose, of very high quality, which reflect the fury of the love-hate relationship of Rimbaud with life and Universe.	2001-02-23
2092106:US	49263512	R34XVTF3HC8EM3	0879239921	697140955	Tartar Steppe (Verba Mundi)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	After all, this is life	On first thought, this is a overwhelmingly desolate book. It is the life of Giovanni Drogo who, after graduation as military officer, is sent to Fort Bastiani, located on &quot;the Northern frontier&quot;, and beyond which the Tartar steppe lies for miles and miles. At Fort Bastiani, nothing ever happens. Holding the absurd hope that some day something will happen that will bring him military glory, Drogo consumes his life amidst the boredom and the rutine of the site. But his hope never dies: as another reviewer correctly noted, it acts like a drug on him. I haven't spoiled anything about the plot: some day, something will happen.<br />This novel is pure literary magic, and it is a shame and a pity that it is so ignored, especially in English-speaking countries. Note: Enlgish-language literature is certainly one of the best corpus of literature in the world, but their ignorance of many other literatures is in their own detriment, unfortunately.<br />&quot;The Tartar steppe&quot; is a masterpiece which, with an ironic and subtle sense of humor, talks about the desolation, the apparent uselessness of living, the futility of existence. It talks about it, but in a subtle yet powerful manner contradicts those theses: Drogo will show the reader that, no matter how dull and empty your life is, there is ALWAYS something about life that makes it worth living. Fort Bastiani and the Tartar Steppe are both real and symbolic: they may be an office, a shop, a house or a city. <br />Read this novel and you will love it forever, not only for its content but for Buzzati's excellent handling of words. He showed he was a great writer. But beyond the style, you'll remember it every other time, when you feel you are Giovanni Drogo, eager for something to happen.	2001-02-23
2092375:US	49263512	R2BVS2VCOP78FT	0879590572	527178312	Muerte Sin Fin/Death Without End	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The best Mexican poem of all times	&quot;Death without end&quot; is a profund poem, but I think its structure allow it to be enjoyed in translation (of course, all poetry loses in translation, but most of the time it's better than nothing). This universal poem is an apex of poetry, Mexican or otherwise. It is transparent, crystalline, hard and dry, and it borders on problems rarely touched upon by poetry. The circular, repetitive movement of life: &quot;life is death without end&quot;. Form, the continent and what it contains. The final section is pure, raw emotion expressed in a dry, brutal but unsentimental way. Gorostiza's is a multilayered poem. It can and should be read repeatedly, to find new meanings and messages. Its music, its rhythm, its depth and clarity make it a most beautiful and meaningful poem. I hope someone out there is interested in reading it: there is no way it will disappoint.	2001-02-23
2092631:US	49263512	R1EMW01PYLKL3S	0380896168	557358048	Two Crimes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great plot, great dark sense of humor	A leftist activist is chased by the police in 60's Mexico, and so he decides to flee the city and seek refuge in a small town, where his uncle and cousins live. He is absolutely penniless, but his uncle is the town's richest man. He is happy to see his nephew again, but the cousins are hostile and suspicious of his presence. Marcos -the nephew- tells his uncle he needs his help to make a big business that will give them both a lot of money (the business, of course, does not exist). The uncle decides to help him, and suddenly strange and dangerous things begin to happen. With all the lies he tells, the passions he arouses, his own passions, and the ambition of his cousins, Marcos provokes two crimes, and an extraordinary plot which develops in the midst of low and turbulent affairs.<br />Ibarguengoitia has a splendid use of the language, simple and cynical. As in his other, much-recommended novels, in this one he creates real characters, flesh and blood, as well as hilarious situations. This novel is a permanent sarcasm.	2001-02-23
2092651:US	49263512	R2S7RAKZ22GLTX	0684106663	742464860	A Little Treasury of American Poetry; The Chief Poets from Colonial Times to the Present Day.	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good introduction to American poetry	Oscar Williams, a poet himself, published in the 50's this fine collection of poems by American authors. Although I had read some of them in translation to Spanish, this was my first step into the world of American poetry, which has so many distinguished representatives. Of course, it needed to be updated, and many other fine collections have come to print since then. Nevertheless, I think this is a good starting point. I still have my copy, which I want to keep because it's there where I found the work of poets I had no notice of, and whoose work I love and have kept reading. Conrad Aiken, for example, a poet that I think is grossly underrated; W.H. Auden, I had read about him, but his work impressed me; Hart Crane; Edgar Lee Masters; Edwin Arlington Robinson, another excellent poet shamefully underrated. Popular poets are adequately represented, like Whitman, Dickinson, Frost and Pound. Williams decided to let T.S. Eliot out, maybe because he opted for the British citizenship. I think he could have made a little trick and put him in, since he was born in St. Louis. Auden, a British-born, is. Overall, a recommended book.	2001-02-23
2092666:US	49263512	R4G08EEO1WMPS	0670891959	234168542	Fragments: The Collected Wisdom of Heraclitus	Books	5	49	54	N	N	&quot;Nobody plunges into the same river twice&quot;	This is what's left of the work of Heraclitus, the most interesting and enigmatic of the pre-Socratic philosophers. Diversity and constant mutation; the contraries which are reconciled in the final and total unity of Logos. Heraclitus tells us that the Universe is in permanent, constant transformation, that this perennial movement is embedded in the One, the summing up of all things which constitutes only one concept (Logos). The opposite of Parmenides, who emphasized Unity over Diversity and transformation, Heraclitus is proof that, by his time (6th century BC), educated Greeks took mythology basically as literature and folklore, but not as serious reilgion: their minds had expanded well beyond the fantastic adventures of the many antropomorphic Gods, to devise and understand that the Divinity has to be the final Unity, whatever its form. Heraclitus is, surprisingly, extremely &quot;modern&quot; in his approach to Nature and Divinity. The fragments reveal a powerful intellect, a real and relevant precursor of Western culture and civilization. Recommendable both to professional philosophers (whatever that means) and to the public interested in reflecting about the Universe and what it is.	2001-02-23
2093191:US	49263512	R2OVLAL9X240IJ	0060932384	885582594	Immortality (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Original and thoughtful	These days, it's hard to come across a book which is really innovative, since all sorts of experiments have been conducted in literature. This is one original work. It is a beautiful novel that the reader writes along with the author. It's kind of &quot;interactive&quot;, just like some by Machado de Assis and Calvino, extremely different authors. Starting from the gesture of a mature woman, Kundera invents fictional characters who interact with other characters, supposedly real, as well as with the author himself. These characters are the excuse Kundera uses to conduct an acute reflection on our age and, in particular, on our cult of technology and image. Besides Agnes (the spirit) and Laura (the body), other memorable characters are Rubens, Agnes's ocasional lover who is sad and melancholic, and Prof. Avenarius, for whom the world is only an object for diversion. This novel transforms all aspects of the modern world into metaphysical issues, and its form is polyphonic: the story is alternated with that of Goethe and Bettina Brentano, which serves to explain and reinforce some reflections by Kundera. There's also a digression about the emergence of &quot;homo sentimentalis&quot; in Europe, as well as a witty dialogue between the spirits of Goethe and Hemingway (interesting, isn't it?). The novel is extremely inspiring, it's beautiful in spite of some paternal and lecturizing passages.	2001-02-22
2093614:US	49263512	R3K037WDOS3HGB	0195101693	211182288	The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas (Library of Latin America)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A hilarious remembrance of things past	This excellent and extremely original novel marked the transition from Romanticism to an authentically Brazilian literature. Written in very short chapters, it is the autobiography dictated from his grave, of a wealthy bachelor, his love affairs, his rompy relationship with his family, his friendship with the extravagant philosopher Quincas Borba (the subject of another novel), his political ambitions and delusions and his -very- particular view of the world. The style is concise, sarcastic, hilarious, cynical and he's constantly sustaining a dialogue with the reader. In a way, it is a novel rewritten in every read, since it seems to be written by the author AND the reader. <br />This novel accurately portrays the enivronment of upper classes in Rio de Janeiro in the middle XIX century. But note that, despite being funny and comical, in the background there is always a tone of sadness and pessimism. It is an intelligent, bittersweet and excellent work of literary art. Read it and you'll be much rewarded.	2001-02-22
2093837:US	49263512	R2CC8BPMTOPJ8V	0679600280	166079745	In Search of Lost Time, Vol. 3: The Guermantes Way	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Aristocracy and delusion	&quot;In search of lost time&quot; continues with Marcel's return to Paris after vacation in Balbec, to the new family house. The neighbor is the Duchess of Guermantes with whom Marcel falls in love in a platonic and purely imaginary way. He gets desperate to be admitted into the Duchess's social circle, and so he takes advantage of his new friednship with Saint-Loup, who belongs in that circle. Marcel goes to visit him at the town where he's in military service, and on his return, he is admitted to the salon of the Marquise de Villeparisis, a first step to his goal. What follows is a treatise, a bittersweet one, on the aristocratic world of Paris, in times of the scandal provoked by the Dreyfus Affair. Proust admirably portraits the hypocrisy, hollowness and cruelty of the aristocratic world, as well as the main character's affection for his grandmother, his friendship with Saint-Loup, the spiritual desolation of the age, and his disenchantment with aristocrats. So continues the greatest saga of memory and emotions, one of the best books ever written.	2001-02-22
2093838:US	49263512	R11MFGMY9TVBD	0192836951	194191660	The Misfortunes of Virtue and Other Early Tales (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	The philosophy of vice	This is the first version of &quot;Justine&quot;. It has a moralizing facade, in order to circumvent censorship, but behind it there is the bitter philosophy of pleasure and vice. The existence of good requires the existence of evil, in identical proportions. Good people fail; bad people triumph. Justine suffers all her life, in incredible amount, the deceptions and vexations of perverted beings who openly rejoice in the practice of evil. <br />Justine passes through the hands of supposed protectors who beat, humiliate and rape her without the slightest trace of compassion. The central episode concerns Justine's reclusion in a monastery. You'll see what the monks do to the lady. <br />On the other hand Juliette, the sister from whom Justine was separated since birth, advances as she dedicates herself to  theft, prostitution and murder, thanks to which she has prospered in the world. At some point, they will meet again, with consequences that you'll find out at the end, after reading this jewel of perversion.<br />This edition includes other tales, in one of which a group of young aristocrats punish the avarice and perversion of a repulsive old judge who wants to marry a young beauty.	2001-02-22
2094031:US	49263512	R39HOTJEGBUVSB	0140437487	623029217	The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	So you want to go out to the sea?	This is the dark narrative of the misadventures of a young man from New England. Pym has a big illusion of going to the sea, and so, secretly, he embarks in a ship. But the ship suffers a mutiny on board, led by ruthless and cruel men. After several days of storms and hunger, there is a shipwreck. The three survivors are rescued by another ship, whose crew is in search for the South Pole. Many adventures follow, and the end of the book is really horrifying.<br />Beyond the plot, the importance of this novel is in the anguished and hair-rising mood it conveys. The relatively realistic beginning becomes a sort of magical horror gradually. It's like some Verne novel told in a hallucinated tone, feverish, tense, absolutely Poe. It will keep you constantly in tension, without pauses nor calm episodes, crossing the border of sanity.	2001-02-22
2094177:US	49263512	R1XXWRJCF8IG6B	0156927942	4040158	Under the Jaguar Sun	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Feel your senses	Unfortunately, Calvino died before he could finish this series on the five senses. I wonder what he would have come up with seeing and touching, since each of these three stories are so different and well written. &quot;The man, the nose&quot; are three stories intertwined: a French nobleman who is desperately looking for the woman whose smell so fascinated him at a customs ball; a prehistoric ape-man trying to identify among the tribe the female whose smell captured him; and a British rocker who wakes up after an orgy and copulates with a woman whose smell atrracts him from among the sleeping bodies scattered on the floor.<br />The second one is &quot;Under the jaguar sun&quot;, the story of an erotic encounter between a couple of lovers, as they eat the spicy and exotic food of Oaxaca, in Mexico. The third is &quot;A King listens&quot;, the story of an illegitimate ruler whose deposition he acknowledges by the sounds he hears while sitting on his room; an allegory about the fate of dictators.<br />Very good tales about the senses. Calvino uses his powerful writing to explore items we constantly use but seldom pay much attention to.	2001-02-21
2095094:US	49263512	RNUEMEXMB1IOE	052548275X	974082701	Aleph and Other Stories	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Major magician	This excellent collection of short stories is an example of the &quot;esthetic of the intelligence&quot; of Borges. His metaphysic storytelling always goes beyond the immediate, to other cultures, other frontiers and other realities. Borges seeks to capture the essence of Universe and Time, and as a result, he creates stories with an exquisite poetry and an abismal, even terrifying depth. The ones I like the most are. &quot;The immortal&quot;, an overwhelming and disconcerting study of the effects immortality would have on humans; &quot;The theologians&quot;, an allegory about personal identity, full of erudition and irony; &quot;Emma Zunz&quot;, the only realistic tale in the collection, about a sick and terrible revenge; &quot;In search of Averroes&quot;, an attempt at depicting the failure of a philosopher who is unable to distinguish between comedy and tragedy; &quot;The writing of the God&quot;, or the aprehension of divinity from a pit, thanks to the signs stamped on a jaguar's skin; &quot;The waiting&quot;, anguished tale about a resignation and the transformation of reality into dream; and especially &quot;Aleph&quot;, fantastic story about that point in the Universe where all points in the Universe meet; a tale that mixes the remembrance of a woman still loved after death, with the absolute vision af the Absolute: the point from where you can see all points. Simply splendid, Borges's literature stands out alone in the history of all literature. There is nothing to which it can be compared. Check for yourself the dimensions of one literary giant. Come find out what you thought you'd never be looking for.	2001-02-21
2095264:US	49263512	RXV0ULXVQ3HVN	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The desert of the soul	This is a novel of escape from the known environment and of pilgrilamge into the soul. Port and Kit, an American couple, and their &quot;friend&quot; Tunner arrive in the Sahara during WWII and travel around. At some point, Tunner goes his own way, and Port gets sick of tyfoidea, so the couple has to find refuge in a French military outpost. What follows next is a sunburned account of a descent into mental hell. Throughout the novel, time seems to stand still. The characters wander around beneath the hallucinating atmosphere of the Sahara, under the sheltering sky, so brilliantly blue you'll see it and feel the dry heat coming from the sun. The plot is not that important, since the main character is the desert: the sun, the sky, the sand and the transparent air. There's always a sense of strange and tense sensuality. <br />No matter how much they travel, the characters are trapped in themselves. Kit will find out for the first time she's alive when she submerges in the cool waters of an oasis pond. She can't stand the idea of going back to New York.<br />Bowles, who lives and writes in Morocco, has produced an original and ver visual novel. The reader gets lost in the desert as much as the characters, feeling and seeing the desert in its full, brutal and desolated beauty. An accomplishment of writing, this novel will leave you wanting to do your own spiritual search in a desert, hopefully with better results.	2001-02-21
2095476:US	49263512	R1RT8983WH4960	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	1	17	31	N	N	Absurdly overrated	I can see why people from non-Latin American countries are drawn to this book, especially those who live in places without anything &quot;exotic&quot; at all. But I'm sorry to tell them that this is not and should NOT be taken as representative of good Latin American literature (much as there is). Unfortunately, the corny and bad movie had good timing, just when the &quot;latino&quot; exotism became hot. And there you have Americans and Europeans thinking this is a good product of Mexican culture, ignoring really good writers and philosophers who don't talk about corny (I have to use this word repeatedly, since it accurately portrays the book) &quot;erotic&quot; recipes. The plot is well known thanks to the movie. It reads like a bad imitation of Garca Mrquez's style, without the mastery at writing. If you want to read a good mix of food and erotism, try for instance &quot;Under the jaguar sun&quot;, by Italo Calvino, a short story set in Oaxaca, Mexico. Or read good Latin American writers, not this fake and utterly failed exploitation of exotism for easy bucks.	2001-02-21
2096081:US	49263512	R1APID936RT7MJ	0812533410	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Creepy, Gothic, enigmatic	A young woman comes to a big countryhouse to serve as governess for two small children, a girl and a boy. They are orphans under the care of their absent uncle. The young woman befriends both the kids and the woman in charge of the house. But soon, she starts seeing two ghosts, and then a terrifying and tense situation ensues. She is sure the kids also see the ghosts, but they deny it. Mrs. Grose believes her, and soon they deduce that they are the spirits of the mean Peter Quint, former valet, and Miss Jessel, former governess, both already deceased. Every conjecture is possible: Do the kids really see the ghosts, as the governess is convinced they do? Are they her hallucinations? We'll never know. <br />This is a perfect terror novel. The atmosphere is paralyizing, frantic and, at the same time, it's open to numerous interpretations and analyses. It leaves the reader with a sense of disquietness and angst. The first-person narrative is hysterical. Of course, James's prose is perfect for this kind of story: the elegance, the subtlety, the convolutions of his English are best suited for intriguing the reader. The kids are lovable and creepy at the same time, and the mystery is unsolvable, since it is in the mind of the governess, and not in real facts. This short but great masterpiece is worth reading several times, until you start seeing ghosts yourself.	2001-02-20
2096302:US	49263512	R29MLB5UVVESBQ	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	12	14	N	N	To capture the evergoing present	Joyce describes the ways that Leopold Bloom and Stephen Dedalus follow, from dawn 'til night, on June 16, 1904. What's special about this day? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Bloom fixes breakfast, goes to the bathroom, does business, attends his friend Paddy Dignam's funeral, goes back to work, strolls on the beach, gets drunk with some friends, follows the party at a brothel, gets Dedalus out of a problem, and then invites him home for more drinks. Then he goes to sleep. Dedalus wakes up in Buck Mulligan's place (a tower), goes to teach at a school, wanders around the beach after visiting some relatives, goes to the library, in the evening he goes to a bar with some friends, and finally he meets Bloom at the brothel. <br />This immeasurable book is a desperate attempt at capturing the present, which is constantly escaping: the present on the inside and the outside of people. It is an absolute witness of what the characters see, hear, fell, smell, and speak to themselves. It is looking for utter simultaneousness, trying to be an absolut record of everything that goes thorugh the bodies and minds of the main characters. Meanings? Symbols? Interpretations? Infinite. This book leaves, among many others, the sensation that it has passed and left us blank; that we didn't retain anything, that we hold nothing of it: exactly the same sensation that the present leaves on us. <br />Every chapter parallels a chapter from Homer's &quot;Odyssey&quot;, and each is written in a different style. As a literary work of art, it is incomparable: it uses language, symbols, syntaxis, pronouns, time, everything, in a unique way, in order to depict for us what happens to a person in a normal day. <br />A separate mention is deserved by the final chapter, the monologue of Molly Bloom. 50 pages without a period, a true masterpiece of stream-of-consciousness. A most faithful portrait of what goes through a woman's mind half awaken, half asleep, a summary of her life and her relationship with Leopold. It is necessary to read this passage in one single effort. <br />When reading &quot;Ulysses&quot;, it is useful to keep in mind Marcel Proust's work. Proust seeks to recover the past long gone, while Joyce seeks to capture the present before it becomes past. This is an overwhelming book, irritating and, above all, admirable. It reaches unsuspected levels of creativity, experimentation and literary depth.<br />Some people don't like it: that's their prerrogative. But to say this is a phony or bad book, is to acknowledge one's laziness as reader. They're losing a tour-de-force in literature. Be sure you don't suffer the same fate.	2001-02-20
2096557:US	49263512	R2PJSPWDFPQU5	9681318110	120668566	Noticias del Imperio (Diana literaria) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Different points of view for a magnificent story	This is a complex and wonderful novel about the history of the pathetic and sad adventure of Maximilian of Habsburg and his wife Charlotte as Emperors of Mexico. Napoleon III tried to retain Mexico as part of the French Empire, and so, after sending in a military invasion, convinced Maximilian of coming as Emperor, in one of the most bizarre and absurd (and tragically finished) chapters of History.<br />Del Paso tells the story using very different techniques, very well accomplished: the objective, historical account of facts; the dialogues between Mexican President Benito Jurez and his secretary (my favorite chapters); the dialogues between Maximilian and Charlotte; the first-hand accounts of Mexican common people; the letters between a French soldier and his brother; and, above all, the twelve hallucinated monologues of the older, crazy and alienated Charlotte, back in Europe without her husband. This variety of standpoints and voices enriches the novel and makes it believable and entertaining. <br />Even in spte of the abundance of hystorical data, this work is strictly a novel. Del Paso plays with History and imagination, intertwines them, and creates an excellent novel. Very much worth reading.	2001-02-20
2096578:US	49263512	R3M6N7F6BMEW4Q	0140185895	257104964	001: Collected Short Stories: Volume 1 (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	68	70	N	N	An unmatched short-story writer	The first of four volumes of the collected short stories of Somerset Maugham is a glimpse of what is to come. A fine, detached, subtle but always unsparing observer of human nature, Maugham tells us stories about human weakness with a humorous, at the same time cynical and compassionate tone. Maugham expects very little from humans, and so, when they do sublime and even heroic things, it is all the more suprising. Perhaps the contemporary word which can best describe his attitude towards his characters is &quot;cool&quot;. We humans are a mix of perversion, weakness, solidarity and real goodness. Maugham knows. So he is always willing to forgive his characters, as long as they know that their actions will have irremediable consequences. Hard but touching, Maugham sees the world from afar, from the internal wisdom which lets him know that nothing is too bad and nothing is too good.<br />The tales I liked the most are &quot;Rain&quot;, about the unlikely relationship between a couple of puritan missionaries and a prostitute, &quot;Before the party&quot;, about terrible marital secrets revealed right before an important party, and, above all, &quot;The fall of Edward Barnard&quot;, simply a masterpiece of storytelling. First time I read it, I decided to become Edward Barnard myself. Go figure. <br />Maugham's style is anything but experimental. He is not trying to find a voice: he has one and he's pretty much sure about its value. And he's right. The way he uses words is the exact measure of craftmanship: not one word is missing, not one is futile. Precision, concision, wisdom, irony and humanism: the best mix for a reading. After you finish this, you'll go to the other three volumes, little by little, enjoying every story.	2001-02-20
2097144:US	49263512	R1896MN2BS33NE	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	It still may happen	A disquieting novel, lucid and magnificent about totalitarianism. Winston Smith, an employee of the Minister of Truth, rebels against the dehumanized and mechanized world of 1984. He, a free thinker, hates the Party and Big Brother, as does Julia. She contacts him and they start a clandestine affair, in a world where passion is forbidden and sex is viewed with repulsion. O'Brien, another character, tells them that there is a secret society named &quot;The Brotherhood&quot;, which fights against the Party. You will be chilled to know what happens next.<br />More than a novel, this book is a clear and horrible warning about totalitarianism and man's overwhelming lust for power, as well as about the misleading uses of technology. A terrifying view of what a society without history, memory, pleasure, love and family may become. It is not pure fiction: in 1984, the Soviet empire was beginning to be deconstructed, but for many years the story portrayed by Orwell had been basically real. There is no guarantee that it won't happen again. New technologies can be a blessing, a tool for the spread of freedom and information (e.g. we can exchange opinions in sites like this one), but they can also be terrible threats to privacy. There is no need to become paranoid after reading this book, but we would do well to be conscious of what might happen in the future (partly, because it has happened in the past). More relevant than ever, this book should be read and talked about. It can only be comforting to know that it is selling very well these days. So read it and think about it: you'll find traces of Orwell's society in the country you live in, no matter which one.	2001-02-19
2097407:US	49263512	R1YD39XTH1ZDAP	0374522839	599734264	The Death of Artemio Cruz: A Novel	Books	4	18	21	N	N	The moment of truth	Artemio Cruz was a destitute boy when the Revolution started. Being a brave and unscrupulous man, he made his way through war and found an important place in the Regime that followed. He became rich and powerful through blackmail, bribe, collusion and violent corruption in general. Now, he's lying on his deathbed, remembering his life. In this novel, the most important character is language itself. Fuentes goes back and forth in time, using First, Second and Third person narrative, to reflect the different standpoints from where the story can be seen. The most interesting thing about the novel is the exploration, from the outside and the inside, of Cruz's mind and personality. It is also an allegory of Mexican history of the past century, which can be used additionally as a metaphor of human history in general. So, why the four stars, instead of five? I think Fuentes's portrait of Mexico, while certainly accurate, uses too many cliches and commonplaces. It's a personal thing, not to dishearten potential readers: the novel is good and cleverly constructed.	2001-02-19
2097444:US	49263512	R19745O35T3LWG	0374518157	201732988	Conversation in the Cathedral (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	108	110	N	N	How Latin America went wrong	This is what the main character, Zavalita, and the author, try to find out in the book: how, when, where, why, Latin America went wrong. It is a political, social and personal novel. Without a clear answer, of course, Vargas Llosa boldly exposes before our eyes the crap, the misery, the injustice and the depravation that rule life in most parts of our continent. He is unsparing, cruel and realistic. The lives of Santiago Zavala and Ambrosio Pardo meet time and again through a conversation in &quot;The Cathedral&quot;, a bar in Lima, Peru. As they tell to each other their stories, they tell the story of Peru in those years. Zavalita is an upper-middle class journalist, the son of a politician, who resigns his social position for idealistic reasons. He is a loser because he refuses to fit in a world like that, where in order to succeed you have to be a part of corruption, pervertion, and immorality. He prefers to be marginalized and isolated. <br />To tell a chaotic story, Vargas Llosa uses a complex style: jumps in time, different voices from separated times speaking simultaneously. But it is not a hard reading, once you get used  to it. The author is superb at eliciting suspense, progressive revelations that give an additional clue into the whole picture. It is fascinating how he reproduces the way people talk in an informal conversation at a bar. Think about it and try to remember your conversations with friends, when sharing a complex story. <br />If the style is great, the substance is chilling: it is a glimpse into the reality most of us refuse to acknowledge. Wherever you live, you will recognize people in almost every character. While MVLL is an excellent writer, this is definitely one of his best. It is certainly one of my favorite novels of all times, and I strongly recommend it.	2001-02-19
2097733:US	49263512	R3JCHW941UIJDF	1573226025	470862504	Tear This Heart Out	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Fictionalized account of a true story	Catalina Guzmn, the heroine of this novel, is based on the wife of powerful Mexican General Maximino vila Camacho, who is named &quot;Andres Ascencio&quot; in the book. This man was a ruthless political boss of Puebla, whose brother, Manuel, was Mexico's President from 1940 to 1946. Maximino was an exploitator, a corrupt and violent man and a womanizer. But he was very rich and powerful, and so everybody feared and hated him. Even his Presidential brother couldn't cope with him. <br />This hilarious but sensitive novel is narrated in the first person, like the memoirs of the character, a beautiful and brave woman who married the General, despite his being 20 years older. Mastretta has done a fine job at describing this excellent female character. Living in an extremely &quot;machistic&quot; society, where women's role was utterly limited to household and silence, Catalina never lets her husband overwhelm her. She is a truly free spirit, fighting her way with dignity and malice. Her story develops amidst political turmoil and violence, but she manages to survive, have her little revenges, and come up alive and kicking. Even though the subsequent production of Mastretta has a very inferior quality, this book deserves to be read, and not just by women, but by whoever enjoys a good story well told. Its sense of humor is very good, it has really hilarious moments, and the depiction of Mexican society in the 30's and 40's is superb.	2001-02-19
2097774:US	49263512	R271IL1SGBG4DG	0380816121	481807906	The Dead Girls	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Dark humor at its best	This novel is based on a true story, which happened in Central Mexico in the 60's. It is the famous story of &quot;Las Poquianchis&quot;, a couple of sisters from Guanajuato state, who successfully ran a number of brothels, always with the complacency of local authorities (at one scene, the mayor of a town cuts the ribbon of a new one, but then gets drunk and disgraces himself in a hilarious way). A series of unfortunate accidents, as well as stupid actions, bring the sisters' luck down, and then hell breaks loose. <br />This sordid story serves perfectly for another fictionalized account by the master of subtle, cynical humor, unfortunately little known out of Mexico (unfortunate for the potential readers). This is a small masterpiece of an objective, cold, cynical, sarcastic and great narrative. The characters are perfectly believable and Ibargengoitia's stand as narrator is completely absent, dettached. Probably the best parts are the first-person accounts of people involved in the murders and their cover-ups. The trivial incidents are at the same time absolutely hilarious, disgusting and relevant to the plot. If you like this one, go further and read other works by this author, like &quot;Two crimes&quot;, &quot;Lopez's steps&quot;, &quot;The lightnings of August&quot; or &quot;Kill the lion&quot;. They're all wonderful and intelligent sense of humor, with a pessimistic and dark twist.<br />The best thing about his writing is that he is Never trying to be funny. You get the feeling that the stories may be ludicrous, but the author is simply telling them the way they were. If you find them funny, that's your issue. It is that precisely which makes them funnier: in real life, stupid and humorous thing happen, without any need for inventing them. Life, says Ibargengoitia, is absurd in every detail. Check it out.	2001-02-19
2100363:US	49263512	R3LKS9PGBOXZJP	0374518882	862989477	The Green House (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Intertwined stories	This complex novel evolves during many years, through the memories and experiences of the characters, within the characteristic arbitrary timing of Vargas Llosa: flashbacks, voices from different ages speaking simultaneously, sudden jumps in time. The action takes place in two basic locations: the high and dry city of Piura, and the Amazonic region of Peru. There are several stories which interact and cross at several points: Fushia, the smuggler who dominates the Indians, whose story is told during his trip with the old Aquilino, down a river; the love story of Lalita and Nieves the soldier; the soldiers of Santa Mara of Nieva; Sargent Lituma and the Woman from the Jungle; Don Anselmo, the mythical founder of Piura's nightlife, and thereafter a harp-player at brothels; The Unconquerables and the nuns from the convent. <br />The novel is an epic of life in Peru, a solid and vast book. Characters from the past and the present speak their minds and tell their deeds. The tone is varied, from the sordid to the epic, from city to jungle. A great novel by an accomplished author, in which the different stories slowly converge to paint a broad landscape. In a less dark way, from time to time Faulkner seems to be in the background, Latinamericanized.	2001-02-16
2100461:US	49263512	R1YKPUSA2T0FZS	067404066X	333666549	Antonio Machado: Selected Poems	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Pain and peace	Machado was perhaps the most &quot;poetic&quot; among all the poets from Spain's &quot;Generation of 98&quot; movement. His are simple poems of love, the countryside, clouds, mountains, rivers, about the absence of Leonor, his beloved wife, who died early. This is the Spain which suffers in silence, without the tormented and exhalted screams of other poets, like Leon Felipe. The small towns and cities where Machado spent most of his life come alive in his easy, lucid verses. As said before, the absence of Leonor covers his poetry with the longing of persons, places and things long gone. Not experimental, urban, or visionary poetry: only the intelligent reflections of the poet on his surroundings, past and present.	2001-02-16
2100651:US	49263512	R18NM949G6TJPZ	0679600051	674102062	In Search of Lost Time, Volume 1: Swann's Way	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Speak, memory!	The first book of &quot;In Search of Lost Time&quot; consists of three independent but connected parts. The first one, &quot;Combray&quot;, is a treatise on involuntary memory, triggered by Marcel's tasting of a pastry that automatically brings back memories of the old vacations at Combray, a fictionalized countryside town in France. The reader feels immediately identified with the character, since all of us have experienced the same. Sometimes, a scent, a face, a tune or a taste touches on an old, forgotten memory. The amazing thing here is that the taste of the pastry leads to one of the most daunting achievements in the history of literature: seven volumes of memories, of an undescribable beauty. This first part, as all the series (which is really one long novel) has an analytical, obssesive quality of extreme beauty. It is an homage to remembrances, to nostalgia and to the life that we recreate in our memory.<br />The second part, &quot;A love of Swann&quot;, is the most peculiar of the whole series. It is a step back in time, to tell a story that Marcel had heard in his family circle. Charles Swann, a wealthy Jewish banker and a friend of the family, fell once in love with a &quot;cocotte&quot; or courtisan, a vulgar woman who made him mad with an obsessive passion. The story, relevant to the subsequent development of events in the novel, is also a treaty on jealousy. It is an exasperating tale of passion, lust, betrayal and obsession, told in a straightforward and beautiful style. Its last line is brutally smashing.<br />The third part, &quot;Names of Lands: the Name&quot; is perhaps the most poetic. It is another dissertation on the character's childhood memories, the evocations that the names of places bring about, and the first love, the daughter of Swann and the courtisan Odette de Crecy.<br />Hundreds of books have been written about this magnum opus. It is art for the sake of art; the deepest treatise on memory and Time; literature of the highest sort; a pleasure in pure writing and reading. It is always useful to compare it to Joyce. While Joyce tries to capture the ever-running present, Proust's endeavour is to recapture that which is already gone: the Past. But the past, seems to say Proust, is not gone: it lives, in a disguised form, in our present memory.<br />If you are a casual or lazy reader, read something else: this is reserved for true lovers of literature. And, I would say, for true lovers of themselves.a pleasure in pure writing and reading. It is always useful to compare it to Joyce. While Joyce tries to capture the ever-running present, Proust's endeavour is to recapture that which is already gone: the Past. But the past, seems to say Proust, is not gone: it lives, in a disguised form, in our present memory.<br />If you are a casual or lazy reader, read something else: this is reserved for true lovers of literature. And, I would say, for true lovers of themselves.	2001-02-16
2100763:US	49263512	R2J2MFHO7C9XMJ	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A double travel	In this good novel by an excellent writer, we are told the story of Sim&oacute;n Bol&iacute;var's last trip. After being forced out of the government of Gran Colombia (Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador) for trying to unite them in a single entity against the interests of the local elites, Bol&iacute;var sails down the Magdalena River, to reach the Atlantic Coast and leave the Continent.<br />But the travel is also a trip to his memory, to his past and his soul. It's a long and deep travel to his illusions, dreams, and past glories and defeats. Bol&iacute;var is sick, in body and soul. As usual with the author, the language is beautiful and brutal at the same time. The main characters, other than Bol&iacute;var himself, do not appear in the book except as memories of the Libertador: Santander, his enemy; Sucre, his general; and Manuela Su&aacute;rez, the woman he loved most and the one who loved him the most.<br />As a novel, it's good; as history, it is one of those works which recreate it, aggrandize it, reveal aspects that otherwise, through serious academic research, would be lost forever. That is the value of good historical novels: to imagine within the bounds of the possible, illuminating for us the most intimate, less-recorded, aspects of history. They give history, thus, a thoroughly human dimension.	2001-02-16
2101672:US	49263512	R1NS1CWMW4TC59	0374506841	909371764	Narcissus and Goldmund	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The eternal search for meaning	Over a background of symbolism, the story of Narcissus and Goldmund (&quot;mouth of gold&quot;) develops: thinking and feeling; abstraction and concretion; ideas and feelings; intellectual and sensual pleasures.<br />Goldmund is a student at a Medieval monastery where Narcissus is a teacher. Narcissus opens Goldmund's eyes, revealing to him that the life of the convent is not for him, that he must go out to the world and experience it. So does Goldmund: he wanders around Europe for years, seducing countless women, knowing every pleasure and every misery. He becomes the apprentice of a sculptor, Master Nicholas, with whom he lives for years. Once again he wanders around during the years of the Plague, getting to experience all its horrors. He kills, sins and sees people die. When he seduces the wife of a Count, he gets imprisoned, but Narcissus saves him and takes him back to the monastery, where he lives as an artist, in quiet peace. But he will feel again the need to live in the world, to plunge in the life of the senses...<br />It may be said that Narcissus and Goldmund symbolize the duality of life, the binarity that consumes us endlessly, the constant switch of feelings and ideas, the eternal search for the meaning of life, that which can not be found only in thought nor only in senses. I can't think of any other book that has revealed so much to me (and so many have revealed much). It is, probably, the real adventure of life that is shown here in all its grandiosity and humbleness. This book can be reread several times, finding new meanings and ideas every time.	2001-02-15
2102471:US	49263512	R1F4ZS60M59E4R	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Everyone has to give their lives a meaning	And Roquentin, the main character, is unable to do so. This novel is in the form of a diary, which tells the thoughts, emotions and everyday experiences of the lonely Roquentin in the town of Bouville, and in his visit to Paris to see ex-girlfriend Anny, when he tries to recover his past. It is a novel about existence and the conscience about existence. Roquentin can not find any meaning to life: the hollowness, emptiness, meaninglessness of life nauseate him. Every other moment, for example when he's contemplating a tree, Roquentin suddenly feels the utter futility of life and this gives him a big nausea: the nausea, the horror of existing in the abstract. It is about existence as a pure, absolut experience.<br />Although the subject of this novel is eternal, deep and real, I was unsatisfied with the book as a literary work. At some point, you just want to tell Roquentin: &quot;You see, doing nothing all day, other than exploring yourself and thinking about how hollow life is, will not give much meaning to your life. So stop gazing at your navel and do something. Maybe then you'll feel life is not necessarily that horrible&quot;.	2001-02-15
2102831:US	49263512	R39PP9C3N90YDX	0374522367	15795468	Captain Pantoja and the Special Service: A Novel	Books	5	19	21	N	N	The best satire of discipline and technocracy	Sometimes, the most serious and deep messages are hidden in the form of light and funny literature (one book that jumps to mind is &quot;Gulliver's Travels&quot;). In this simply genial novel, the Peruvian military has a problem: the garrisons of the Amazonic regions are very short of women and feeling extremely sexual, so rapes are mounting. This, of course, is bad PR for the Army and a real problem for the chiefs. They decide to create the &quot;Special Service&quot;, a well-oredered and efficient ring of disciplined prostitutes who will satisfy the soldiers' needs and erradicate the problem of rapes. Who is the perfect man to be in charge of the Service?: Captain Pantaleon Pantoja, a model solider, who lives with his lovely wife and his mother-in-law. Pantaleon is a sober and righteous guy, enemy of prostitutes, bars and fights. He is also the most efficient manager of the Army. He is dismayed at the task but, always disciplined, puts all his intelligence and efficiency to it. The learning process proves problematic for his marriage: since Pantaleon knows nothing about the night life, he has to learn it by visiting sordid brothels and buying drinks to informants. Of course, when he starts arriving home in the morning, extremely drunk, his wife gets very disappointed. But he convinces her of the importance and required sacrifices of his new mission. Eventually, the Special Service becomes the most efficient branch of the military, and it gets famous. The very funniest parts of the book are the official reports where Pantaleon informs to his superiors of the successes and problems he has in his job. The official language describing absurd and outrageous situations is just great. Of course, things get out of control, with dramatic but funny consequences.<br />The plot is rapidly developed, with the surfacing of a sect of fanatics as its counterpoint. These sect crucifies people and animals, and the story includes a harsh criticism of the Church as parallel to the Army. The reader wonders: why is it that Vargas Llosa decided to intertwine a satire of military discipline with another one of religious fanatism? And the conclusion is that it is an extremely smart and witty novel, hilarious and troubling at the same time. The characters are really, really great, including Panta, his wife, his mother-in-law, some of the prostitutes, and some of the officers. Great book by a great contemporary author.	2001-02-15
2102873:US	49263512	R2FVXPIFHQD6SL	0140435123	16284361	Nicholas Nickleby (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Dickensian world	I would say this is &quot;David Copperfield&quot;'s B-side. It is a typical Dickensian book: the life of the Nickleby family from the death of the father until they are rich and happy. One of the most important parts of the book is the study of the horrible boarding schools of Yorkshire, where Nicholas is sent. We can read the dirty intrigues of Uncle Ralph, the adventures of Nicholas and Smikes as travelling actors (a world Dickens came to know very well), the kindness of the brethren Cheeryble.<br />Definitely, this is not one of Dickens's best novels, but nevertheless it is fun to read. The characters are good to sanctity or bad to abjection. The managing of the plot is masterful and the dramatic effects wonderful. It includes, as usual with Dickens, an acute criticism of social vices of his time (and ours): greed, corruption, the bad state of education. In spite of everything, this is a novel very much worth reading, since it leaves the reader a good aftertaste: to humanism, to goodness.	2001-02-15
2102924:US	49263512	R21BGM1ZTTV4MO	0446355569	747897654	The City of Joy	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Only good as a testimony	A French priest goes to live among the poorest of the poorest in Calcutta, including the people with leper.It is said to be a true story, and then it is a moving account of life in that place, where an American doctor and some Indian people also share these most difficult lives. Lapierre tells a moving message: joy, solidarity, friendship, can be found even in the hardest of circumstances. Love is the only way to overcome poorness, sickness and hunger. While all that is true, Lapierre's book comes to the verge of being a glorification of poverty. As literature, is almost corny and artificially dramatic; as a testimony of what goes on in there and how the human spirit sometimes excels in the midst of harshness, it's good. I'm sorry not to like it much or sounding cynical, especially since I appreciate its message, but it is only a report from dire poverty, not a very good novel.	2001-02-15
2103172:US	49263512	R30G2A0H7FJ2UU	0140446583	621459486	The Village of Stepanchikovo: And its Inhabitants: From the Notes of an Unknown (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	In the land of the blind, the one-eyed rules	This book is very different from the rest of Dostoevsky's production, primarily because it is a satire and not a tragedy. The narrator is Sergey, a young man who goes to visit his uncle at his isolated estate. The uncle is an extremely meek and impressionable man, who is dominated by a pretentious, ignorant and despotic pseudo-intellectual named Foma Fomitch, a master of sentimental blackmail. Foma is an arribist who has everybody in the estate under his capricious control, a situation which astonishes and irates Sergey. Hilariously absurd situations degenerate into the pathetic, as Sergey gets dismayed about everybody's inability to perceive Foma's stupidity and fakeness. <br />Nevertheless, despite  the radically different mood of this novel, compared to Dostoevsky's rest, a fact remains: the Russian people seem to behave abnormally in any circumstance, and to be full of deep emotional contradictions and complexities. Read it for a different taste of Dostoevsky's literature.	2001-02-14
2103405:US	49263512	R3C2DLXDDFCO80	8401492742	739172018	2001: Una Odisea Espacial	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Even if you've seen the movie, read this	Because it is a real classic of science fiction, but not just a genre-representation. It's a fine piece of literature, sci-fi or not. It tells the story of David Bowman and his travel to Saturn. His mission is to find about the first extraterrestrial signal of intelligence, detected in a monolithe which has sent it from the Moon to Saturn. On their way, Bowman and his colleague share the command of the spaceship with a computer, HAL, which suddenly awakes to life and consciousness. HAL goes mad and tries to destroy the mission, for reasons that will keep you thinking for a long time, with no clear result. Although you probably know the plot, I don't want to ruin it for other people.<br />This is a chilling book, enigmatic, disturbing and almost criptic in its overwhelming ending. It speculates about technological advancements, about the risks of artificial intelligence, and it opens the door to unsuspected and strangely verosimile possibilities about the Universe. If you haven't done it, see also Kubrick's movie: watch the Universe dancing Strauss's the Blue Danube and Bowman crossing into another dimension.	2001-02-14
2103660:US	49263512	R3GCEDBYVZHE94	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	0	0	N	N	To be or not to be	&quot;Hamlet&quot; is one of the most famous literary works, about which millions of words have been written. There are even Marxist, feminist, and psychoanalitical interpretations of it. That fact, alone, says much about the depth and width of &quot;Hamlet&quot;. In this immortal tragedy, the Danish Prince Hamlet is extremely sad and suspicious about the death of his father, the King. His mother has remarried to the King's Brother, Claudius. Hamlet's suspicions are confirmed by the ghost of his father, in an unforgettable scene: yes, Claudius is the murderer of his brother. Hamlet goes mad with pain and fury, and starts to plot his revenge. Its outcome will prove fatal for many people.<br />This peak of drama is an exploration into the human soul, emphasizing emotions such as remorse, rancour, the need for revenge, and folly. Long before existentialism, Hamlet asks for the meaning of existence: what it is and why existence exists. <br />The dramatic tension is perfectly crafted and sustained; Shakespeare's sentences are also perfect and magnificent; the scenes eternal: Hamlet's encounter with the ghost of his father; his monologue on &quot;to be or not to be&quot;; Ophelia's death and burial; the theatrical representaiton of Claudius's sin; the climax at the duel. Hamlet is one of those works of art which have done the magic of becoming part of the popular, &quot;subconscious&quot; culture, much as &quot;Don Quixote&quot;, the &quot;Divine Comedy&quot; or the classic Greek tragedies. Without regard to the actual number of people that read them, these works belong to us all because they have been determinant in the shaping of our culture.	2001-02-14
2103735:US	49263512	R4WTVQEOFQVDE	0679774386	538008197	Doctor Zhivago	Books	4	27	31	N	N	The epic of independent thought in censorship hell	This is the epic of Zhivago (and later, Pasternak himself)over the background of Russia's transition from Czarist rule to Bolshevism, passing through the First World War and the Civil War. The novel tells the intercrossing stories of Dr. Yuri Zhivago and Lara, whose lives meet several times during their childhood and adolescence, without getting to know each other. Zhivago grows up in Moscow, with the Gromeko family, whose child Tonya becomes his wife. Lara gets married to Pavel Antipov, who goes to war. When he is missing in action, Lara becomes a military nurse, in order to look for him. Zhivago also has to go to war, and there he meets Lara. After the war, he and his family move to a rural estate near the city of Yuriatin. There he meets Lara again. She lives alone with her daughter, since her husband has become the terrible revolutionary known as Strelnikov. They fall in love immediately and absolutely, and they start an affair which torments Zhivago, since he feels bad about being unfaithful to his wife. One day, he is kidnapped by the Partisans (revolutionaries), who keep him in prison during the Civil War. Eventually he escapes, to proceed his life. Many things more happen, but let's not spoil the plot. <br />This book is a vast landscape of Russia, but it's not a political or social novel. It is basically a story of love and Fate, but it is also possible to interpret it as a symbol of what war, politics and especially totalitarianism can do to the individual. But I don't agree with the reviewer who says that every character is a specific symbol or prototype, since I found them to be full personalities, tragic figures with a whole life depicted in the book. This book is to be suffered, for it is very emotional and sad. &quot;Rich&quot; is perhaps the best word to describe it.	2001-02-14
2105868:US	49263512	R3D3CC0B0BYL64	0393316491	742340053	The Gambler	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ambition and delusion	This novel traces the family intrigues and passionate affairs of a group of Russians in Germany. A great character, the Grandmother, is surrounded by potential heirs who are eagerly waiting for her to die, as all of them make their future depend on her money. Unfortunately, she becomes an addict to gambling, happily throwing away her fortune while the potential heirs get desperate and dismayed. This is a lot of fun, because, with his characteristic irony and dark humor, Dostoevsky digs into their souls and lay them bare for us to see the raw cheapness and lust for money that dominate them. The main protagonist falls prey to the vice of gambling, becoming a real and sick addict. The second part tells the story of his pathetic descent into the hell of vice, and is less funny and more soul-exploring. Certainly not a work of art comparable to &quot;Crime and punsihment&quot; or &quot;The Brothers Karamazov&quot;, &quot;The gambler&quot; is nevertheless a very good novel, in the best Dostoevskian tradition: psychological depth, raw exploration of the human soul, dark view on humankind.	2001-02-12
2106017:US	49263512	R3RMZAP0N7Y7AA	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Intellectual joke turns dangerous	Three Italian intellectuals who work for a prestigious publishing house in Milan, get acquainted with authors who write about occultism, secret societies and cosmic consipracies. As an elaborate intellectual joke, they invent a complex plan &quot;plotted&quot; by the Templar Knights seven centuries ago, and kept secret to this day. Using a computer, they spread the game, but someone will take it seriously. As the &quot;conspiracy&quot; get out of control, the three men will get involved in a  nightmare of passion, death, satanism and preversion, that will take the action to Brazil. The book is a thriller, as well as an ironic mock on people who believe in these conspiracy theories, but also a mix of love stories, strange and surreal. <br />The two female characters are fascinating: Lorenza and Lia exemplify frivolity and humanity; snobbism and sense; sensationalism and the warmth of simplicity. Certainly a demanding reading, it is very rewarding and entertaining.	2001-02-12
2106297:US	49263512	R3EO0K9DUXSRJC	0805012478	857469136	Steppenwolf: A Novel	Books	5	207	215	N	N	We all feel like steppenwolves at some point	This novel is supposedly the writings of Harry Haller, a lonely intellectual who feels isolated from the rest of the world. The story is the account of his existential transformation. Beyond the plot, it is an exploration, a painful one, on the hollowness, emptiness and meaninglessness of life. It talks about how lonely we really are, in the confusing and unexplainable world in which we live. It also talks about the desperation routine brings on, the fakeness of love, the necessity of death. But, in the final analysis, it also shows a probably undeserved love for life. This is not a simple &quot;grunge&quot; book: it's thoughtful philosophy expressed in a fine literary piece of work, which shows vividly some concepts that sometimes formal philosophy renders in abstract and obscure ways.<br />Harry Haller, the steppenwolf, will meet a simple woman who takes him into the life of the flesh and the simplicity of people. This is very important: Haller comes to realize, in an intuitive more than analytical way, how we all humans feel the same loneliness and confusion, but how most of us manage to live and somehow enjoy many aspects of being alive.<br />This is an intelligent, deep and moving novel. It is not always pleasant, but then again life is not always pleasant either. Steppenwolf is perhaps the novel in which Hesse best sums up many of the points made in his other novels, previous or subsequent. It is the round-up of a clear and interesting philosophy of life. No wonder people, especially young people, keep finding inspiration, advice and healing in his works. Maybe I shouldn't give it five stars, for it can't be compared with top-level literary masterpieces; but I think literature's importance is not only and not always stylistical. The content is important too, and at least for me, this is one of the most inspiring and memorable novels I've ever read.	2001-02-12
2106333:US	49263512	R1NZGEQ99SLD0D	1891270079	634844628	The Medicine Man	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good stories about different cultures	Rojas takes advantage of his extensive anthropological field work among different indigenous peoples of Mexico, to write concise and short stories which acutely portrait these ethnic groups, what their culture is like, and what kind of lives they lead. Each one of the twelve stories is about a specific ethnical group, so the reader gets a sense of the variety and differences among these groups. The stories go from the extraordinary to the everyday aspects of life. Rojas was a good anthrpologist, and that is reflected in the fact that his stories are not told from an &quot;afar&quot; Western point of view, which tends to emphasize the &quot;exotic&quot;, but instead try to penetrate into the vision and collective soul of these groups. The general tone is melancholic, fatalist, magical, and full of references to the rites and beliefs of Mexican indians. <br />Now that the Zapatista uprising has brought up the issue of indigenous peoples, it should be healthy that people interested take a look at the wide variety of cultures and visions of these peoples, a first-hand account by one man who really got to live among them. Many prejudices and commonplaces will be changed after reading this. But, most of all, it is good literature, and that should suffice.	2001-02-12
2106476:US	49263512	R1N288BZT8ULR1	0836940776	676753494	Letters from My Mill & Letters to an Absent One (Short Story Index Reprint Series) (English and French Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dreamy afternoons in Provence	&quot;Letters from my Mill&quot; is a collection of short stories, some of them being almost poems in prose. Daudet wrote them in a mill where he spent some time in Provence, in Southern France. They are anecdotes and memories which portrait the life and character of the Provenzals. They are filled with tenderness, nostalgia, and deep humanism. They are smooth, melancholic, realistic and like an afternoon dream. They constitute a pleasant reading for an idle time. Recommended.	2001-02-12
2106502:US	49263512	R36NP0RR6BIXC1	0460876546	607454519	Master Humphrey's Clock and Other Stories (Everyman Paperback Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More Pickwickian adventures	Collection of short stories tied by the fact that they were told during the sessions of Mr. Humphrey's Clock Club. The narrators are Mr. Humphrey himself, Johnny, Redburn, Mr. Miles, Mr. Pickwick and the Deaf Gentleman. Following the line of the &quot;Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club&quot;, these tales are less outrageous and more humanistic, full of nostalgia and good humor. One good thing is that the Wellers and Mr. Pickwick reappear.	2001-02-12
2106592:US	49263512	R2HL984HJPAAMG	0395125723	750295942	The Land of Canaan	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Good introduction to this troubled and strategic land	What is historically known as the &quot;Land of Canaan&quot; has been, and still is, one of the main crossroads of human History, Religion, and Philosophy. Asimov tells us the complex yet fascinating story, from the first known human traces, found in Jerico circa 7,800 BC, until the total control of the Roman Empire, in 135 AD. We read the stories of the Cananeans, Phillistines, Arameans, Hebrews, Jews, Phoenicians, Carthaginians, etc., and the successive dominations of Egyptians, Hicsians, Assyrians, Caldeans, Persians, Greeks and Romans. It is written with the trademarks of Asimov's history: fast pace, sense of humor, precision, anlysis and criticism.<br />Although later discoveries, very important in the last decades, may have modified or slightly altered some of Asimov's hypotheses or data, I think it is a wonderful introduction to more serious and specializaed study of this crucial region of the world. For non-specialists, particularly, it is a good book, since the writing is easy and the tone is non-academic. Recommended.	2001-02-12
2108988:US	49263512	RKU3I826IQRUI	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Many books in one	This intellectual achievement can be read from different perspectives and tells different stories. Yes, it is a mystery thriller, with a XIV century Sherlock Holmes and a young and peculiar Watson. But it is also a metaphor of censorship and political control; a reflection of the theological disputes of the time; an illustration of the socioeconomic trends of that century; a parody of the Book of Revelations; a depiction of life in Medieval monasteries, etc.<br />William of Baskerville and his assistant, the young Adso of Melk, are appointed to investigate a case of murder at a Franciscan monastery in Italy. The work seems to be endless, as seven more murders are committed while they are there. During the course of their investigations, they discover the devilish pervertions, the obscure story, and the mysterious secrets of the abbey. Moreover, they get to participate in a hsitorical confrontation between the representatives of Pope John XXII and those of the Emperor Ludwig of Bavaria. In this conference, fundamental matters are put to discussion, especially the poverty of Christ and the heresies derived from Franciscanism. The solution to the murders is fantastic.<br />The mystery is a lot deeper than just the &quot;who killed the dead?&quot; level. It is an intellectual mystery. Eco's erudition is wonderful, even if it makes for a demanding reading. It is very much worth the time and attention you'll have to put into this book. If you can find the companion to the book (which I think should be included in subsequent editions) the enjoyment will be much more. Go, then, with William of Baskerville and find out who and why is killing monks in this dark monastery.	2001-02-09
2109000:US	49263512	R1FHY2ZG24CQJR	0140442316	884341068	L'Assommoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The apex of Naturalism	Naturalism is the novelistic genre that aims at depicting society without any embellishment, just as things are. Usually, of course, this genre takes on the lives of the poorest and/or most degenerate layers of society. It can easily fall into cheap pornography or disgustingly morbid prose, so it is a style that demands conciseness and sociological acuteness: it is difficult to be a good Naturalist writer. Zola is the master, as you will notice by reading this book.<br />It is the sad story of a working-class woman in Paris. Her lover abandons her and their two children, which forces her to perform low-wage and terrible jobs. She gets married again, only to struggle with her husband's extreme alcoholism and the depravation it entails, including physical abuse.<br />It is definitely not a pleasant reading, but the situations portrayed are still very much present in contemporary societies, both in rich and poor countries.	2001-02-09
2109045:US	49263512	R1CCVR37SCVR6F	0140430784	596871917	The Pickwick Papers (English Library)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A British Don Quixote	This hilarious book tells the outrageous adventures of a cast of characters to remember forever. It's a joyous, humane, and faithful portrait of the British society. It is full of acuteness, irony, tenderness and sarcasm about the human condition. As in all of his books, Dickens reflects his experiences (prison for debts, etc.) in this book which tells the love affairs, countless drunken nights and fights in which the Pickwickians get. Apparently a book whose only purpose is to entertain, it is, like all intelligent humor, a bitter but optimist critique of the human being. The cast of characters is wonderful, and you will be just delighted you picked up this volume.<br />&quot;The Pickwick Papers&quot; was the first fictional book by Dickens, and it shows how capable of good humor he was. The title's character is a restless good-spirited man, a Don Quixote with a British touch, whose adventures are less noble and a lot more messy that those of the Don. The story of his friendship with the rest of the crew is hilarious and moving at the same time. Come read the story of this excentric lot, as they drink their way in and out of trouble.	2001-02-09
2109128:US	49263512	RDIJOADTS4RIT	9681609107	42762072	Mala yerba y Esa sangre (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Before and after the Mexican Revolution	&quot;Mala yerba &quot; (Bad weed) is a novel about Western Mexican countryside shortly before the Revolution starts. A pretty but light-headed peasant, Marcela, has been having an affair with the owner of the estate, Julian Andrade. But then she runs away with an employee, and after that with an American. Finally, she returns with the employee, but he is killed by Andrade, who later kills Marcela. The bottomline of this novel is the situation of the Mexican rural areas before the Revolution. It underlines the cruelty and despotism of the landowners, frequently lustful, alcoholic and brutal men, owners of lives and fates.<br />&quot;Esa sangre&quot; (That blood) tells the story of the return of Andrade to the town near his estate. He has come back from Argentina, where he found refuge after deserting from Pancho Villa's forces (yes, there were landowners fighting in the Revolution). He returns impoverished and aged, to try to recover his old estate. He never succeeds, and his fate will be hard.<br />The value of this novels is that they show effectively a &quot;before and after&quot; approach to the specific lives of representative individuals. Azuela is a good writer. He takes sides with the poor, but manages to keep an objective balance. His literature is concise and economic, there is little rethoric or lecturing. It is a strict realism which has won him the title of &quot;the Mexican Balzac&quot;, all proportions kept.	2001-02-09
2109232:US	49263512	R17KOXBR4BWD3C	0345349288	25085472	On Heroes and Tombs	Books	3	6	18	N	N	Difficult people have tormented love affairs	This is the story of the tormented love affair between Martin and Alejandra. She is unapprehensible, strange and cruel. Martin loves her passionately, but she despises him and treats him really bad. Her father is a paranoid who spends his life studying the blind and feeling chased by them (Sabato, like Saramago, is also obsessed with blindness). This is a complex book about dark and obnubilated minds, lost in a chaos of doubts and insecurities, of tragedy, solitude and mistery. <br />Although the treatment of the plot is interesting, especially the chapter on blindness, I found the characters unlikable. I don't agree with people that don't like books because the characters were unlikable. Then we should only write books about nice persons. But these characters were utterly irritating. Perhaps, though, you can find real depth and meaning in the book.	2001-02-09
2109426:US	49263512	RM1AWGM3CCF6F	037575315X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The power of literature	This power is expressed in the possibility that people from different places and ages really relate to each other. It is the power to communicate thoughts and emotions in a way that the reader says: &quot;I feel the same&quot;. There is nothing compared to the discovery of a connection with a fictional character.<br />In this ageless novel, Maugham tells the semi-autobiographical story of Phillip Carey, an orphan with a clubfoot who is raised by his aunt and uncle, this one being a Protestant clergyman. After school, he tries to be an accountant, but fails for lack of interest. During a vacation, he has his first sexual encounter, with an older friend of the family. Trying to see some of the world, he leaves for Paris, where he studies painting. Then he goes to medical school, his true vocation, but is forced to suspend, due to lack of money. Poverty temporarily ruins his life, as he has to work in a shop, the hardest and saddest part of his life. Finally, his uncle dies, leaving him money enough to continue his medical studies. He'll also find love.<br />The plot is the least important thing about this book. The reason this is one of may favorite books is that, as I read, I feel so identified with Carey in his growing up, in his triumphs and setbacks, that I finally approach the book from an emotional and not just an intellectual standpoint. Carey always looks for the meaning of life until he understands that he has to give it a meaning, that there is no preordained way to go, but the one he is able to find through reason and humanity. <br />Certainly, Maugham should be considered one of the best writeres of the XX century. Perhaps he is not, due to the fact that he was not an innovator or experimentator, but a concise, almost perfect craftsman. So, come join Phillip Carey in his journey through life. You will find revelations about your own, in a book that is pleasant as long as you are willing to confront real issues, beyond simple entertainment.	2001-02-09
2109592:US	49263512	RH97IW02RUP42	0006375219	146214603	Napoleon	Books	5	22	26	N	N	&quot;What a great novel my life is!&quot;	Napoleon is reported to have said this, and it is true. In this magnificent biography of the Corsican, Cronin has written the life of Napoleon from the inside: who the man really was. It is not only circunscribed to battles and politics, but especially the intimate life and anecdotes of Napoleon. It changed my vision about this man. The information and research are exhaustive, yet the book reads like a novel. That is the true art of biography. <br />Napoleon has been one of the most controversial characters in History, and deservedly so. Cronin does not take sides, but he clearly rejects the portrait of Napoleon as an overambitious monster, always trying to get more and more territories for France. Undoubtedly, ambition was the driving force for this man, but we have to consider that he was constantly harassed by other powers who feared that his influence would destroy the old European regimes. Undoubtedly, his coronation as Emperor was a big disappointment to all those who believed he would be the leader of Republicanism. Beethoven, for instance, dedicated his Third Symphony to him, but after the coronation he erased the dedicatory, writing instead: &quot;To the memory of a great man&quot;. However, we have to judge historical figures by the standards of their times, not ours.<br />All in all, this is probably the best biography of Napoleon. At least it is the best among the three or four I have read. It is a shame that it is out of print.	2001-02-09
2109668:US	49263512	RZZ0Z78AEKE4	0394563158	770492577	The Pigeon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A small thing can change a life	Located in contemporary Paris, &quot;The Pigeon&quot; is the story of an incident. A dull Frenchman discovers one day the unexpected presence of a pigeon in front of the small roomm he inhabits. This minuscule and seemingly irrelevant event adopts terrifying proportions in the mind of the man, becoming a grotesque nightmare. <br />As a master of allusion and obsession, Suskind reveals once more, in this parable of everyday life, his gift for building a metaphor of the existential background of humans. It shows that our life usually holds to rutines so fragile, that a simple disturbance may force us to rethink everything from the start. It is a short book, but an intriguing and absurd tale. The absurd, seems to say Suskind, is present in the most simple things that happen every day.	2001-02-09
2110059:US	49263512	R1UWBMAKYJQDYX	1873982275	76394487	LES DIABOLIQUES D'AUREVILLY (Empire of the Senses)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Beware of sensual women	Six masterpieces of storytelling. The stories are narrated by their own male protagonists, destroyed by six devilish women. These are stories about infamous sex and crime, charged with eroticism. They are also a portrait of Paris and Normandy societies during the years of the Restoration and the kingship of Louis Philippe. Barbey was an extravagant Catholic and a monarchist. Two other good novels by him, &quot;L'Ensorcele&quot; and &quot;Le Chevalier Des Touches&quot;, deal with the reactionary fight of the &quot;chouanes&quot; to depose the Revolutionary regime and bring back Monarchy. In &quot;The She-Devils&quot;, Barbey shows the dark side of female sexuality, depicting women as dangerous sensual animals who don't stop at anything in their search for satisfaction and egocentric fulfillment. The prose is raw and refined at the same time, and you feel you would have liked to meet these sensual women -from a distance.	2001-02-08
2110207:US	49263512	R44JYORN3ZMKN	0192839403	178626109	The Vicar of Wakefield: A Tale (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A new book of Job	In the Bible, Job is a wealthy and happy man who is put to test by God, in order to settle a bet with the Devil. Primrose, the vicar of Wakefield, seems to suffer the same fate: first, he loses all his money; then, a man seduces his daughter and all manners of trouble set upon he and his family. But the man will never surrender. His undestructible good humor and wit, his reliance on philosophy and religion, allow him to endure all kinds of calamities, until the happy end. This is not a moralizaing book: it is pure, intelligent fun, with a message not lectured to us, but insinuated. This novel deserves to be put out of the infamous &quot;classic&quot; shelf (the one that condemns masterpieces of art to become &quot;boring&quot; for lazy readers) and into the public. It's very much worth it.	2001-02-08
2110327:US	49263512	R3EECSRVYSKJZJ	0451517938	691474875	The Red and the Black (Signet classics)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A portrait of mediocrity	Julien Sorel -who, oddly, some reviewers like; I think he's despicable- is a young, obscure and ambitious semi-priest who does not believe in the Church; an insecure and troubled man who only looks for his personal progress (material, not spiritual or intellectual) without thinking of the consequences of his actions. As the tutor of the mayor's children, he seduces his wife and then makes her miserable. Then, he leaves his town and becomes the secretary of the Marquis de La Mole, whose affection he wins and whose daughter he gets pregnant. I won't spoil the rest, but there are two excelent twists in the plot, who finally reveal in full what kind of man Julien is. <br />This complex but gripping novel uses Sorel's inner world to criticize a cynical society and the existence of bored, empty and amoral souls in need of some trascendence. People don't know which way to follow, in the turmoil of passion, ambition and hollowness. It can be said that this novel, a classic work by all accounts, is the perfect study on mediocrity. A true masterpiece of literature.	2001-02-08
2110855:US	49263512	R2XD7SHN7N3AS0	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Once again, are we going this way?	In a not so distant future, Guy Montag is a fireman. But, paradoxically, his mission is NOT to quench fires, but to set them up in order to burn books. Because in the world in which Montag lives, it is absolutely forbidden to read books. Because reading books forces one to think for oneself. And thinking for oneself might lead you to question the world and not be happy. And in this world, it is mandatory to be happy. <br />This book warns about the dangers of a mechanized civilization which condemns the life of the spirit and the free mind. The prescience of Bradbury is remarkable: in a book written in the fifties, he foresaw the terribly negative effects TV could have. Today, there still are free thinkers in this world, but to most people they seem weird and strange. TV, of course, can be used for constructive purposes, but let's be honest and admit that some 90% of its consequences have been stupidly destructive. So turn off your Oprah (like she could recommend good literature) and read this book: you'll end up wanting to read more.	2001-02-08
2110890:US	49263512	R3AMXENOP48EJO	2877143384	566571465	Tartarin de Tarascon (Classiques Francais) (French Edition)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The anti-Quixote	Just as Alonso Quijano went insane by so much reading of chivalry novels, Tartarin goes crazy from reading so many adventure novels. He comes to think he can accomplish whatever the heroes in the books have, and so decides to go to Africa to earn glory and honor. Just like Don Quixote, he is ill-equipped for the task, but that doesn't diminish his enthusiasm a bit. Tartarin wants to be a great hunter, so he goes to Algeria, where all he gets is to be robbed and kill a blind lion in a circus. <br />Tartarin is a great character of world literature, a funny man with disparate ideas and neverending trust in success. There are several novels about him, and this is the first of the series. Hilarious and irritating, this man and his adventures will make you laugh and think about your dreams and how good it is you never tried to make them come true.	2001-02-08
2111023:US	49263512	R26BPOWLEHCRUH	0451527712	655343360	Frankenstein (Signet Classics)	Books	5	33	43	N	N	Man is not God	Forget the Frankenstein from the movies and come read the real story of a man, Dr. Victor Frankenstein, who is a brilliant scientist with an obsession: play to be God, creating a living human being all by himself. God punishes him: when the creature wakes up to life, he turns out to be a horrible monster. Frankenstein is terrified and rejects his creation.<br />And here's where the Gothic tale becomes a true literary work of art. What follows is the tragedy of a creature created by the arrogance and ambition of one man, an ugly yet fully human being. The monster is not good nor bad: he's just plain human. What he needs is affection, love and understanding. But his ugliness and clumsiness provoke that no one is willing to approach him: he scares the hell out of everybody. First, he is sad; then, he is enraged. Here's where the real monster is created: by the hatred and frivolity of other humans.<br />A true Gothic masterpiece, this novel is unforgettable for its message, its depth, and especially for its environment and mood. It is all dark, all cold, all terrifying and all moving. The true monsters are the others, not Frankenstein's creature. But his wanderings around the world are wonderful horror literature. Don't miss this great book written in one night by Mary Wollstonecraft, the young wife of poet Percy Shelley. It is the fortunate result of a bet made by several attendants to a vacation by a lake in Switzerland, Lord Byron included.	2001-02-08
2111053:US	49263512	R2ET952CSYY9A5	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	10	12	N	N	This is war	The story of 20-year old Paul Baumer, a German solider in WWI. The story is told in two levels: on the one hand, we are told the events and situations of the war; on the other, the confused inner world of Paul's mind, his perplexity before the destructive phenomenon of war, which not only destroys buildings and bodies, but also the dreams, illusions and hopes of a whole generation that jumped directly from school to battlefield; from life to death; from peacefulness to utter destruction.<br />This unencouraging novel tells the story of war from the inside. There's no strategy, no politics, only the meaningless daily deaths of thousands of young men who, in the words of Remarque, could have been friends if they had not been told they were enemies. This book is very well written. It's not sentimental, but sensitive. It's not a cheesy pro-peace lecture, but the truth about war. It is not an exaggeration to say that it will hit your guts and close your throat.	2001-02-08
2111089:US	49263512	RWFNPWWLZRTMO	0345373774	249829938	The Tunnel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Crazy weirdo kills his crunch	Juan Pablo Castel is a tormented and insane painter who falls for Maria, a woman he meets at an art exhibition. She is married to a blind man -the subject of Sabato and Saramago's obsession- and has a house in the countryside. She is also the mistress of her own cousin. Castel discovers this and goes mad with jealousy. We have no way to know the truth, because everything in the novel happens inside Castel's mind.<br />When I first read the novel, in 1989, I thought it was a great psychological thriller, a true gem of existentialism. My praise for it has diminished, though, as I have come to dislike the guy. On a superficial level, it's just about the mad obsession of a lonely and depressive loser who is unable to cope with his passion and that leads him to commit a crime. If you find it profound and revealing, then enjoy it.	2001-02-08
2111497:US	49263512	R1QU6J6OX46ED5	0810110539	351042647	Live and Remember	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Between a rock and a hard place	Like many good pieces of literature, this one takes up a confrontation between values: the patriotic and military values vs. the personal, family values. Andrei Guskov is a Russian soldier who is wounded at the front in 1944. When he recovers, he decides not to go back to his unit, and therefore becomes a deserter. He hides in the thick forests that surround his natal village, in Siberia (the location of most, if not all, of Rasputin's work). It is winter, and at nights, Guskov wanders near the town. One day, he comes home and suddenly finds his wife, Nastiona. Andrei forbids her to say anything to his or her parents, which puts the woman in a difficult situation. Even so, Nastiona finds a way to visit her husband sometimes, taking advantage of some trip to the city, or in the middle of harsh winter storms. They face a hard dilemma, because Guskov will be forced to leave the surrounds in Spring, when peasants return to work. And then hell breaks loose, when Nastiona gets pregnant.<br />This is a beautiful novel, unfortunately little known. Rasputin is a good writer and the story is moving and even tragic. Best enjoyed in a winter evening.	2001-02-07
2111802:US	49263512	R12I32J9NHALFC	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Are we going this way?	In the future world, social stability is the first priority. People are &quot;produced&quot; with genetic engineerings, and there are no mothers. Different chastes are produced, with different missions and status. In fact, people are enslaved, but thanks to hypnopedia and induction, they are all happy. Everybody uses &quot;soma&quot;, a happiness drug. Sexual liberty is complete, with no prejudice or inhibitions, and the superior chastes are really beautiful. There is much variety of entertainment for the free time, but no opportunity for independent thought. Loneliness is forbidden. Bernard Marx is a strange guy who goes to a reservation for indians in New Mexico. There, they find a woman from the &quot;normal&quot; world and her son, both of them had got lost and become savages. The child turns out to be the son of the Director of Incubation and Conditioning, who loses his job for the crime of having a son. Marx takes the savage and his mother to London and then...<br />In 1932, when this book first appeared, it must have sounded like science fiction. Today, it is not. It is simply our society taken to extremes. For good and for bad, we are closer and closer to Huxley's vision. Although my view of the future is not that pessimistic, I think our present society resembles Huxley's in more than one feature: 1) we still can't &quot;produce&quot; people, but genetic engineerings is taking us closer; 2) many people are born in &quot;chastes&quot;, where social mobility is practically impossible (if you're born an aborigin in Mozambique, your chances of dying in your suburban hometown are almost zero, and viceversa); 3) many people are enslaved and happy to be so (including people in nice offices); 4)sexual liberty is complete in many places; 5)never in history had there been so many time and choices for entertainment, and it can hardly be argued that they stimulate independent thought; 6)the &quot;indians&quot; of the world are confined in reservations (possibly their own countries) while the borders of the developed world are almost closed for them; 7)and, instead of &quot;soma&quot;, we have ecstasy and prozac.<br />This is not an opinion; just a comparison, and a worrying one. I am pro free markets and pro technology, but I am also convinced that these have their problems, and we should acknowledge them and think and act about them. Read this book and you'll think of suburban United States. I promise.wn countries) while the borders of the developed world are almost closed for them; 7)and, instead of &quot;soma&quot;, we have ecstasy and prozac.<br />This is not an opinion; just a comparison, and a worrying one. I am pro free markets and pro technology, but I am also convinced that these have their problems, and we should acknowledge them and think and act about them. Read this book and you'll think of suburban United States. I promise.	2001-02-07
2112085:US	49263512	R21QTRPFA1PN0H	078592048X	216080156	La\Vie de Rance	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A change of life	Chateaubriand writes the biography of Abbe Ranc, the founder of the Order of the Trapenses, the hardest and most rigid of all monastical orders. The biography is true to Chateaubriand's status as a full Romantic. During his first 37 years, Ranc lived like the aristocrat he was, in the life of the Court, pleasure and moral dissolution. But suddenly, like Francis of Assisi or Saint Augustine, Ranc's eyes were open and he realized how hollow and senseless his life was. As it usually happens with sudden moral shocks, Ranc took his to an extreme. He retired to the mountains, to spend his last 37 years in monastical life, like an eremite. The order he founded had the usual votes of obedience, poverty and chastity, plus a vote of silence. The focus of the book is on the moral fight that took Ranc to such a hard transformation.	2001-02-07
2112120:US	49263512	R2TJ92GDXX41WN	0810112515	557890622	Elias Portolu (European Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Temptation and sin	Elias Portolu is a Sardinian peasant who has done time in jail, in Italy. One day he returns to the island, a few weeks before his brother gets married. Trouble begins when Elias starts to fall in love with his brother's fiancee. Being a loyal brother, he resists the temptation, and when it gets stronger, Elias leaves his home and goes to another village. But, as Goethe proved in &quot;Elective affinities&quot;, love is not something we can control or decide, and so the story proceeds...<br />Grazia Deledda, a Nobel-Prize winner, has written a novel of great tension. No good nor bad guys here: just human beings with difficult lives, in possession of moral values as well as human weaknesses. Worth reading.	2001-02-07
2112148:US	49263512	R1G8IHFWVYIB64	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Life has everything	Charles Dickens is a master at re-creating the world. Throughout most of his books, Dicken's own life is recreated time and again, always with a different plot but with the same basic truths. In &quot;David Copperfield&quot;, we go along the protagonist through his troubled and orphane childhood, his sufferings in terrible public schools, his trip to the beach to visit his nanny, his life with the stern yet loving aunt Miss Betsie Trotwood, the intrigues of the despicable yet fearsome Uriah Heep, his marriage to the childish and immature Dora, the betrayal by a trusted friend, success without happiness, and finally the encounter with true love, in the form of a friend from youthness.<br />The characters are all people you find during your own lifetime: your friends, your aunt, your sweetheart, that woman you love but you can't stand, etc. Copperfield is the story of a good man in his learning through difficulties and setbacks.<br />No wonder it is still read and probably will stay alive through the decades: Copperfield has something to tell us all.	2001-02-07
2112304:US	49263512	R3FWINBSA3FBN8	081290852X	959321828	Samurai (English and German Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Clash between values	In this sad and moving novel, old and rich samurai Hayato adopts young Nagayuki and later marries him with his daughter, Tomiko. He is sent to law school in Tokyo, where the couple spends a happy time. Later, Hayato decides that Nagayuki must go to America, alone, to make justice to his samurai status and come back full of dollars, like some other Japanese have done. But the America Nagayuki finds is prejudiced and hostile, and his law degree counts for nothing. So he is forced to perform the lowest of jobs. In the meantime, Hayato loses all his fortune due to his pretentiousness, sinking Tomiko and her child in poverty. Hayato's behavior eventually brings tragedy to all.<br />This book confronts in extreme the values of old Japan and the values of the United States. While completely an apolitical novel, it seems clear that Matsubara, the author, is telling us about the rigidities of old cultures and how frequently they force people to cling to old systems of thought that, far from protecting them, bring disaster. It's a pity that this book is out of print, because it is a good novel and its message is valuable.	2001-02-07
2112399:US	49263512	R26HX1HJV13ZEL	0674990803	760444776	Caesar: The Gallic War (Loeb Classical Library)	Books	5	42	53	N	N	Great real adventures in war	Just imagine that in this book you can read the account of the Gallic wars told by the hero of them. Yes, an egocentric and arrogant hero, but who among us feels able to accomplish what he did? This book is an example of rigorous writing, of military genius, of courage and will. First, Caesar quenches the revolt of the Helvetians (in today's Switzerland). Then, the German Ariovistus invades Gaul and is defeated by Caesar. Next year, Caesar defeats the Belgians. The third year, Caesar goes to sea to fight a maritime battle against the Vanesians, and then pacifies Aquitaine, in today's Northern France. In the winter, he crosses the Rhin and defeats the Suavians. And then he accomplishes a prowess: he crosses the English Channel to fight the Britons. Hey, a Roman conquering England? That is adventure. <br />But not everything goes smoothly for the Roman armies. In an ambush, the Gaul Ambiorix (is that where Asterix comes from?) devastates the armies of the Romans Sabinus and Triturius. This sparks a revolt by other Gaulians, who set siege to the Roman general's Quintus Cicero's fortress. But Caesar comes to the rescue and they win. Other battles ensue, but the last campaign is the most famous: Vercingetorix, a Gaulian leader, revolts and manages to put the Romans in great trouble, since his revolt has plenty of followers all over Gaul. After defeating Vercingetorix, Caesar has to placate all the Gaul, in a series of hard battles. Seeminlgy not tired after eight years in Western Europe, Caesar then returns to Italy and starts the Civil War. <br />The greatness of this book is that it takes you by the hand to some of the most important battles in History. Yes, they are far from us, but they shaped the Roman Empire and thus, our very own civilization. There is no substitute for the story being told by the main protagonist, strategist and conductor of it. It is many things: a crucial History book, good literature, and exciting adventure. What else can a reader ask for?	2001-02-07
2112449:US	49263512	R16J9FTIFVMJUK	0425169200	461985061	The ABC Murders	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great artisan of mystery	Hercule Poirot, the famous detective, receives letters which warn of a coming murder. The towns and last-names of the assasined are arranged in alphabetical order. First, a merchant, then a maid, and then an archaeologist, are killed. This is exactly the kind of book one should not spoil by revealing much of the plot. Suffice it to say that it is smartly built. The characters are well-rounded, and the threads of the plot lead through the mystery until ends meet at the end. Good entertainment.	2001-02-06
2112455:US	49263512	R1KJGEHYRPUV6Z	081120068X	298308397	Siddhartha	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A search for the self	Siddharta is the son of a renowned Brahmin, a good-looking, intelligent and rich boy. But his spirit needs more than what he sees in life. Siddharta is an individualist looking for himself and for his own personal connection to the Universe. So he leaves his family and joins the samanas, wandering monks. He lives with them until he becomes dissatisfied once again. In his wanderings, he meets the Gotama Buddha, and joins his group of students. He appreciates what Gotama teaches, but it remains within himself the sense that he can't learn from others, that he will have to find the truth by himself. His spiritual search hasn't been successful. So he tries the life of the world, of money and the senses. He goes to a city and lives as a merchant, getting rich. He has a wife and son, and experiences all sensual pleasures. But soon he finds that this life won't fulfill his spiritual ambitions. At last, he goes to a river and becomes a simple ferryman, taking people to both sides of the river in a small boat. He then establishes in the life of contemplation.<br />Siddharta's quest is for the integration of self and universe, of instinct and spirit. It is a &quot;bildungsroman&quot; or a novel where the author traces a particular character throughout his whole life, telling us what and how he learns in his growing up. This novel is a mix of Western and Oriental views on life, but it is also more than that. It is the story of a search for the meaning of life, of the uncompletenness of narrow ways of life, and the need for experience to be diverse in order to find what we are looking for. As correctly pointed out by another reviewer, Siddharta is not particularly likeable until the end of the book. This is because Hesse wants to show us the mistakes and errors we all committ at some point in our lives. But this book also says an important truth: wisdom is reachable, wisdom is there for us to get it, if we learn to look for the right answers by making the right questions and by seeing not only with our eyes, but with our full brain and soul. It's hard to imagine anyone not finding something to think deeply about after reading this book, and therefore it is recommended to everyone.y seeing not only with our eyes, but with our full brain and soul. It's hard to imagine anyone not finding something to think deeply about after reading this book, and therefore it is recommended to everyone.	2001-02-06
2112552:US	49263512	R3F7AZQ4DI76Y7	0812567110	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Tor Classics)	Books	5	341	369	N	N	Forever young	This sophisticated but crude novel is the story of man's eternal desire for perennial youth, of our vanity and frivolity, of the dangers of messing with the laws of life. Just like &quot;Faust&quot; and &quot;The immortal&quot; by Borges.<br />Dorian Gray is beautiful and irresistible. He is a socialit&eacute; with a high ego and superficial thinking. When his friend Basil Hallward paints his portrait, Gray expresses his wish that he could stay forever as young and charming as the portrait. The wish comes true.<br />Allured by his depraved friend Henry Wotton, perhaps the best character of the book, Gray jumps into a life of utter pervertion and sin. But, every time he sins, the portrait gets older, while Gray stays young and healthy. His life turns into a maelstrom of sex, lies, murder and crime. Some day he will want to cancel the deal and be normal again. But Fate has other plans.<br />Wilde, a man of the world who vaguely resembles Gray, wrote this masterpiece with a great but dark sense of humor, saying every thing he has to say. It is an ironic view of vanity, of superflous desires. Gray is a man destroyed by his very beauty, to whom an unknown magical power gave the chance to contemplate in his own portrait all the vices that his looks and the world put in his hands. Love becomes carnal lust; passion becomes crime. The characters and the scenes are perfect. Wilde's wit and sarcasm come in full splendor to tell us that the world is dangerous for the soul, when its rules are not followed. But, and it's a big but, it is not a moralizing story. Wilde was not the man to do that. It is a fierce and unrepressed exposition of all the ugly side of us humans, when unchecked by nature. To be rich, beautiful and eternally young is a sure way to hell. And the writing makes it a classical novel. Come go with Wotton and Wilde to the theater, and then to an orgy. You'll wish you age peacefully.	2001-02-06
2112635:US	49263512	R12G6BCFD2E4GR	0811210197	510663260	Battles in the Desert & Other Stories	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good evocative writing	In Mexico City, there is a big and very traditional neighborhood, where wealthy people lived decades ago, and now is a middle-class place, with nice streets, restaurants, museums, ann bookstores. It was there that the protagonist of this short novel was born. It is a remembrance of childhood. The narrator retells the story of his infatuation with the young and attractive mother of one of his classmates, who is also the mistress of a politician. One day he skips school and visits her, and he delcares his love for her. The visit is known of in the community, and sparks a small scandal. Years later, he will find an ex-classmate and find out what happened to her. It is a good story, full of nostalgia for Mexico City in the 30's.	2001-02-06
2112669:US	49263512	R34ZSMRJXQWOXM	0449206092	648408806	Moon-Spinners	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good fun in a splendid place	A young English woman who lives in Athens chooses the small town of Agios Georgios, in Crete, for her vacation. One day, she walks along a hidden and lonely path, and there she finds a wounded man. He warns her to stay away, but then something happens... Nicola, the woman, is thus thrown into a wild mess of murders, kidnappings and trouble, related to a band of jewelry-smugglers. The scenery is lush, sun-bathed Mediterranean shores, it has romance, intrigue and suspense. Very good fun to read.	2001-02-06
2112831:US	49263512	R1C7BWB9AILK2K	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Children learn about justice	This fine novel talks about justice and courage. The narrator is a young girl, Scout Finch, who lives in Alabama in the 30's and shares her summertime adventures with her brother and their friend Dill. Before the core of the action starts, we are witnesses to their innocent life in the middle of a town crossed by racism and violence. It reminds us of how we lived in our small but pleasant worlds, not knowing the things that adults do. But as it happens to most of us, one day something happened that ripped that innocence and forced the kids to see the real world, in the form of an unexplainable injustice. A black man is accused of rape and murder by a white girl. Atticus Finch, Scout's father, accepts to defend the man. Through the trial, we see injustice and hatred everywhere, except in Atticus' strong attitude and firm principles. By the end, the kids will experience personally the agression and injustice of this world. <br />Although not a first-level literary prowess, this book deserves the love most of its readers feel for it. Besides being well written, its message is universal and true. There are more elaborate and sophisticated treatments of the subject, but that in no way diminishes its value. Harper Lee is good at speaking with the voice of a child: this is very difficult and often results in corny or artificial efforts. One good thing is exactly that children's world is portrayed as innocent but by no means stupid: children are keen observers and get their own conclusions. All in all, a good novel worth reading.	2001-02-06
2113007:US	49263512	R3KE99T37ZM63A	0880641428	645679642	Peter Schlemiel: The Man Who Sold His Shadow	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Crazy fun	This is a wonderful tale of the absurd and the fantastic. Peter Schlemiel is a young man who trades his shadow for a bag of gold coins which never gets empty of them. But, no one must notice his lacking a shadow. Those who do, despise him and get away. Peter goes to a resort and falls in love with a girl , but the wedding is impossible because she notices he doesn't have a shadow. Then he meets again the man who traded the bag of gold for his shadow, and Peter asks it back. The man agrees, but in exchange he must give him his soul. Peter refuses and throws the bag to an abyss. Then he finds the seven-leagues boots, wears them and runs to the Thebaid, in Greece. This is pure fun on crazy and absurd adventures. Very pleasant reading.	2001-02-06
2113087:US	49263512	R11CJCGC86OKI1	8437615445	23143045	Los trabajos de Persiles y Sigismunda/ The Labours of Persiles and Sigismunda (Letras Hispanicas/ Hispanic Writings) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The travails of Persiles and Sigismunda	...There are several monographs on the subject, but the book itself is missing. And that is a pity: Persiles is a funny and action-packed book, very different from everything else Cervantes wrote.<br />Under different names, Persiles and Sigismunda travel to Rome. They are sister and brother. On their way to Rome, countless adventures happen, including the kidnapping of Sigismunda by some barbarians. These and Sigismunda suffer a shipwreck in the Mediterranean and the adventures continue. The ending is a twist of the plot. <br />This novel is very representative of the Reinassance. As noted in other reviews of works from this age, one constant feature is the interaction between mythological characters and Christian deities. The divine entities participate in the action and fantastic things happen. It should be read and appreciated.	2001-02-06
2113192:US	49263512	R1IGT8EKZIESKU	0679729259	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The three faces of life	Fyodor Karamazov is a widower with three male children. Since he is an alcoholic depravate, they are raised in different cities by different families. They get reunited with their father when they are adults. Dimitri has been a soldier. He is passionate, drunken, gambler and irresponsible: he represents the life of the senses. Ivan is intelligent, atheist and has a bad temper that explodes easily: he represents the life of the intellect, the mind that is always searching for answers through reason and logic, and gets enraged by his inability to find the Truth. Alyosha, the youngest, is a sweet, temperate and humanitarian man: he represents the life of the spirit. Love and compassion pave the way for his finding peace of spirit.<br />The father is the harsh reality of life and the human vices which confront every person through their lives. Dimitri and Fyodor try to get the same woman, a situation that produces fights and a bitter confrontation between them, getting almost to the point of murder. Ivan wants to convince his father in an intellectual way, but it's Alyosha who is the strongest: he uses love and forgiving. The plot is twisted and hard, but every chapter reveals the complex relationships between flesh, brain and soul, as represented by the conflicts between the three brothers. The other important character puzzles me: Smerdiachtkov is a servant who in reality is the son of Fyodor and an unidentified woman. He is half-retarded, a confused guy who is half beast and half man. I'll have to reread the book to see if I can make ends meet. But this is my own interpretation. It shouldn't be taken too rigidly, for probably you'll find other meanings and interpretation: the book, as a classic, is sufficiently wide and deep to convey different messages to different people.<br />This book represents Dostoevsky's desperate yet brilliant spriritual search. As in most Russian literature the characters are tormented, convoluted and seem to be torturing themselves endlessly over spiritual confusions. Except, of course, for Alyosha, a quasi representation of Christ and Christianism, whatever its branch. Other reviewers agree that this book is an eye-opener: it leaves its mark on your mind and your soul.	2001-02-06
2113265:US	49263512	R1X3ENJVQXIOPB	0786705906	230463263	Ninety-Three	Books	5	33	34	N	N	History in the making	Hugo was a great novelist with a gift for mixing history with fiction. Just like Dumas, only Dumas is lighter entertainment and less depth. 1793 was a crucial year for the French Revolution, and hence for human History. The Revolutionary regime was unstable, faction-ridden, while the forces of the Ancien Regime were still fighting fiercely (read Balzac's &quot;Les Chouanes&quot; and &quot;A Murky Business&quot; for other great references to alter years of this period). It is also a story of generational fighting, as well as an account of heroism in both sides. <br />The Marquis of Lantenac is an old aristocrat fighting to restore the Regime, in the La Vende uprising. He faces his nephew, the Vicomte of Gauvain, who fights for the Revolution. The scenery is the beautiful Bretagne, in Northern France. Hugo rounds up the story magnificently, explaining the reader what is going on in Paris with the different factions and leaders. So the story is not isolated from main historical events. These give it a full context, and in turn the story enlightens us about what the fight is about. The climax comes in the battle of La Tourgue, where uncle and nephew face each other in a dramatic fight. The revolutionaries win, but Lantenac returns to a castle, to rescue three children caught in a fire. He is imprisoned, and here the drama reaches its highest: Gauvain is told to execute his uncle. The ending is a hard confrontation between political reason and personal values, a subject explored in great literature since &quot;Antigona&quot;, by Sofocles. It's clear why this eternal confrontation is tragic: no solution is devoid of an extremely high price. A less-known but excellent work by one of the best novelists there has been.	2001-02-06
2113403:US	49263512	R2WAOI0C30V0TV	0671749609	835505349	Perfume: The Story of Murder	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An all-powerful sense	Strangely, this excellent novel was completely ignored by every list I know of, about the best books of the century. True, the XX century was prodigal in good writers, but I think this one deserves a better appreciation.<br />Jean-Baptiste Grenouille is the son of a fisher-merchant woman in Paris. He is a destitute boy with strange characteristics: he doesn't have a smell, but his smelling sense is absolute. No odor escapes from his nose (in XVIII century Paris that was not necessarily a pleasant experience, I guess). He is raised in an orphanage, and then becomes an apprentice in a leather-clothes shop. Later, he works for a perfume-making house, which he takes to the highest levels thanks to his sensitivity to smells. After living seven years in a cave, he establishes his own perfumerie, and sets to accomplish his goal: the perfect perfume, one that will force people to love him. For Jean Baptiste is an awful man. He has never known any love, throughout his life. He is ugly and unlikable, as well as a solitary man. To make the perfume, he must kill 25 beautiful virgins and mix their hair and clothes. The ending is pure magical horror. <br />&quot;The Perfume&quot; is well written and the story has an utmost originality. The depiction of Paris in the XVIII century is superb, as well as the character of this outstanding personality in literature. It is quasi-science fiction, a thriller, a story of a misled search for love and a biography of the strangest man. Strongly recommended.	2001-02-06
2113445:US	49263512	RUC3I4XEHPXIC	0856685577	197450788	Cervantes: The Complete Exemplary Novels (Hispanic Literature) (Bks 1-4) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent short stories	I can not believe I'm the first to review this great work of art at Amazon. Cervantes' 13 stories are his best work after Don Quixote, and even if this didn't exist, the Exemplary Novels would suffice to give him a place in the Western canon. These funny and witty stories are an acute portrait of life in Spain at the time, but their relevance is universal. They depict in particular the life of the lower classes, a genre that came to be known as &quot;picaresque&quot; through excellent accounts in books such as &quot;Lazarillo de Tormes&quot; (reviewd by me in these pages) and &quot;El Buscon&quot; by Quevedo. Cervantes' writing is short, precise, polished and funny. &quot;The bachelor Vidriera&quot;, for example, is a great tale about a lawyer who goes mad and believes he's made of glass. He gets paranoid at the thought of him being crashed or broken by people approaching him. &quot;The dialogue of the dogs&quot; is another great example. All thirteen are very good, the subjects they treat vary considerably, and they are most recommended.	2001-02-06
2117149:US	49263512	R1XCPY39H0NKVN	8471627272	347869587	Les multituds (Quaderns crema.[Narrativa) (Catalan Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The multitudes and how they behave	Eleven magnificent tales written in Catalan (I read them in Spanish). Each one is a study of how multitudes, masses of people, behave in different situations. They are all simply chilling. Casellas, a great psychologist of the masses, as can be seen from his tales, chooses eleven subjects to confront the masses: an execution, extreme poverty, artistic creation, the military, public embarrassment, deception, fame, benevolence, death, acusation, and lies. Every tale shows the ignorance, cruelty, and stupidity of the masses; the dangers of an unchecked mob. Excellent study and great story-telling	2001-02-02
2117186:US	49263512	R3U8UX6V3KL60H	0394701267	7630156	The Divine Comedy: The Carlyle Okey Wicksteed Unabridged Translation	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One of the main sources of Western culture	The all-encompassing mind of Dante has produced indeed one of the main sources of Western culture. It is a rich poem, full of interesting stories and commentary and which, like all true classics, can be read from different standpoints and has different dimensions. It tells Dante's travel to Hell, Purgatory and Heaven. Daniel Boorstin has called it &quot;Adventures in Death&quot;. It is also one of the main bridges between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. Like other works from this period, it mixes classical mythology and tradition with Christian history. The first evidence of this is the fact that although Dante travels to the Christian underworld, his guide is the Roman poet Virgil, no less.<br />Dante's work is thus multi-layered: it is an exploration of virtue and sin and their consequences; a profound criticism of the state of the Catholic Church at the time, attacking fiercely the institution of the Papacy and Boniface VIII in particular, for their corruption; a reelaboration of old Medieval themes; a bitter analysis of Italian and especially Florentine politics of his day, whose effects he so cruelly suffered.<br />During his trip, Dante meets and speaks with Biblical characters, Greco-Roman ones, and contemporaries of him. These people tell their stories and explain why they are where they are. Dante touches practically on all relevant and controversial subjects of his time, as well as many of our own. Although in any translation we miss the lyricism of his verse, we can still appreciate the quality and dignity of his writing.<br />It is not, of course, an easy reading. It is not &quot;light&quot; literature and it demands intelligent, cultivated and also demanding readers. But the reward is infinite. Dante's work has had any number of repercussions in subsequent culture. I think, for example, of Tchaikovsky's &quot;Francesca di Rimini&quot;, based on one of the fascinating stories told to Dante in Hell, Purgatory and Heaven. Dante's images are powerful, terrorific in Hell and purely Divine in Heaven. His imagination is truly remarkable, in the way he describes the punsihments and rewards, as well as the characters and their situations.<br />Lose the fear and plunge into this greatest tour de force. It is really Dantesque., terrorific in Hell and purely Divine in Heaven. His imagination is truly remarkable, in the way he describes the punsihments and rewards, as well as the characters and their situations.<br />Lose the fear and plunge into this greatest tour de force. It is really Dantesque.	2001-02-02
2117264:US	49263512	RB2UPI80HZJTY	0848815009	590004703	Worlds in Collision	Books	5	75	93	N	N	Something happened	I am amazed to see so much controversy around this book. I can't see how one can accept or deny the theories exposed in this book just like that. Provoking it certainly is. Flawed, perhaps. But totally erroneous, I don't think so. I understand that many of Velikovsky's hypotheses have been proven totally or partially correct by science since it was published in 1950. It must be said that Velikovsky's may be controversial, but absolutely not pseudo-science, even if it contains mistakes. It should never be included in the same cathegory of Von Daniken and other lunatics and conspiracy theorists. The first thing obvious to the reader is that, before writing the book, Velikovsky did his homework, his research. And it is simply impressive. He takes sources from every civilzation known, from China to Yucatan, from Polinesia to Finland, and of course the Jews, Sumers, Babilonians, Greeks, Romans and Persians. He seems to have double-checked everything before risking a theory.<br />Here's, briefly, what he says: In the XV century B.C., what is now the planet Venus, a comet coming from Jupiter, passed near the Earth, changing its orbit and axis and causing innumerable catastrophes that formed the early mythologies and religions of the world. 52 years later, it passed near again, stopping for some time the rotation of the Earth, with the ensuing added catastrophes. Then, in the VIII and VII centuries B.C., Venus and Mars almost collided near the Earth, which caused a new round of disturbances and disasters. After that, the current &quot;celestial order&quot; was established, we don't know for how long. <br />It is simply breathtaking to know the impressive coincidences and similarities in myth and religion of the whole world. The coincidence of deities, symbols, explanations. It is simply impossible that all that may be simply the product of chance, of people from unconnected lands imagining, out of the blue, the same things. I remained in awe throughout my reading, and I must say that I am a total enemy of easy, conspiracy-minded explanations. I think a healthy skepticism is always good to understand the world. But the research is massive and astonishing. I am sure Velikovsky didn't get everything perfectly. But scientific evidence has been recently going closer and closer to the theories he advanced fifty years ago, when man hadn't even set foot on the Moon and researching technology was far from what we have now. <br />This book definitely deserves a read. It not only doesn't discredit any religion; on the contrary, his theories assume that the writers of holy texts were not mad hallucinators, but accurate conveyors of real events, long living in peoples' minds, due to the catastrophic consequences they brought to humanity. Read it, think about it, and you will never read the Bible or watch a starry sky with the same mind.	2001-02-02
2117367:US	49263512	RBBQZ9B2BDIZR	0803250304	84283439	On Heroes, Hero-Worship and the Heroic in History (Bison Book S)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Praise for the individual	Six lectures delivered by Carlyle in 1840. He classifies six kinds of heroes: as Divinity (Wotan, paganism); Prophet (Mohamed); Poet (Dante, Shakespeare); Priest (Luther, Knox); Man of Letters (Johnson, Rousseau, Burns); and Ruler (Cromwell, Napoleon). The trait that defines a hero is: absolute sincerity and firm belief in his principles. <br />In his highly rhetorical lectures, Carlyle highlights and reinforces the role of the individual in the social process, as opposed to the role of the masses. And he did that precisely when the foundations were being laid for the most influential &quot;pro-mass&quot; movement in History: Marxism. The tragedy of Marxism, at least one of them all, is that, when translated into action, the blind masses were also led by &quot;heroes&quot; of the most authocratic sort.  Not properly the work of an historian, these lectures are vivid, inflamed and enthusiast. Their uselfuness for our present age is precisely that they remind us of the crucial role significant individuals play in history, to accelerate or slow down (and even reverse) the process of social change, which is usually more gradual, diffused, and diverse.	2001-02-02
2117474:US	49263512	R2EZK7XGCNATL4	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	3	12	21	N	N	On second thought...	When I first read this book, I loved it. I thought it was a perfect psychological thriller, with the added interest that it is a true story. Now, I think it is certainly well written and well researched. Capote has high skills at using words to convey situations, environments and emotions. His insight into the minds of the criminals is revealing and appealing.<br />Where, then, did Capote go wrong? In taking sides. The story of a murder in cold blood should have been written in cold blood, too. I wonder what Balzac or Stendhal would have done with this material, being the masters at approaching their subjects in cold blood. But Capote, whom I think I would very much dislike if I had a chance to meet him, decides to go against the death penalty imposed on the two despicable murderers. Note: I am against death penalty for reasons not pertaining to this review, but if someone somewhere deserved the penalty, it was these two rascals. Oh yes, Capote tells us their story and how they became outlaws. Understandable, but not justifiable. Many other people suffer abuse and misery and nonetheless become productive members of society. Murderers deserve a punishment, if not for &quot;social revenge&quot;, at least for &quot;social health&quot;. <br />Still, the book is well written and the story is chilling. Pity that Capote made it a political argument's case.	2001-02-02
2117496:US	49263512	R3M0JSD6U07DMZ	0865273200	824522293	Village	Books	3	7	11	N	N	The sad life of Russian villages	Perhaps you have to be a Russian literature junkie like me to enjoy this book, but I think it is good literature, although not a masterpiece. It tells the story of the brothers Kuzma and Tikhon Ilich, who live in the village of Durnovka. It is a small and isolated village, where life is dull, sad and hard. Everyday is a struggle for survival in a hostile environment. As always in Russian literature, the characters are tormented people (is it the cold and the vastness, or what?), with tortured souls and a great difficulty to get along with their neighbors. Kuzma goes to Tikhon's farm, to manage it, but at some point he leaves. The best about it is Bunin's sensitiveness and beautiful wording.	2001-02-02
2117581:US	49263512	R1G42O0KRW570U	0006144764	648366929	1900	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A XX century epic	It is really a pity that this book is out of print and that no one has reviewed it in Amazon. Not even because it is the source of a great film by famous director Bernardo Bertolucci (starring Gerard Depardieu and Donald Sutherland) which I also recommend. &quot;1900&quot; tells the story of the wealthy family of landowners in Italy, the Berlingheris. Alfredo is the heir of the family, a contemporary of Olmo Dalc, the son of one of the servants. Alfredo and Olmo are good friends since an early age, regardless of their different social status. But as they grow older, Alfredo becomes a frivolous junior, while Olmo is introduced to Socialism and subversive ideas. He becomes conscious of his exploitation and involves in politics. Mr. Berlingheri hires Attila Bergonzi as a hitman, when the workers start to talk about social demands. Then, the Facists grip power, and a fierce repression against the workers ensues. Olmo is forced to flee, making a living as a butcher and always on the run. Eventually he is imprisoned and Attila kills his family. Maybe the best part is the ending, which includes a bittersweet reflection on the final result of the political struggle. <br />This novel covers many years in an epic way. A disenchanted epic, by the way. Its main subject, though, is not so much politics but friendship. Every social or political event is reflected in the old friendship between Alfredo and Olmo. Class, education, interests, they all pollute the virginal friendship between two kids. Of course this is nothing new, but the subject is treated beautifully and matter-of-fact. It's, of course, a sad book. But you will find many things to muse about, and it will be hard to forget.	2001-02-02
2117737:US	49263512	R1WPT5T2Z6BLKR	0374507481	857469136	Beneath the Wheel: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Under the wheel of social pressure	Hans lives in a small town with a small-town life and mentality. He turns out to be a remarkably intelligent boy and the leaders of the community take an interest in him. So they take him under their care, and start preparing him for admission into the Seminary. First sign: Nobody ever asks Hans if he wants to become a priest. It is simply assumed that a gifted boy like that, a rare jewel in such a sleepy town, has to go that way. An added pressure is that Hans's father is very proud of his boy and, besides, he has no mother. So he tacitly accepts studying Latin, Greek and Math, with a memorizing method. Studies are hard and abstract, and not connected at all with reality. Hans is rather shy and introspective, but likable nonetheless. For a year, he dedicates all his time to study, and finally gets to be admitted in the Seminary. He goes there, but finds life miserable (hint: he doesn't really like the idea of becoming a priest). There, he meets the excentric poet-to-be Hermann Heilner, and feels attracted to him. Heilner is an embittered young man, a loner and pompous lecturer. Their friendship gets Hans in trouble, and he becomes alienated from the rest of the students. He starts to underperform in class, and at some point suffers dismays and nervous breakdowns. And so he is sent back home, to suffer the disappointment of the town, which had put hope in him. Hans, of course, will always be conscious of his great failure: he didn't live up to the expectations he arose on his fellow townsmen. Hans then becomes a mechanic, surrounded by fellows he clearly does not belong with. One day, they go for a drink and, on returning home.. well, I won't spoil the ending. although it's not hard to imagine.<br />I have no idea if Hesse projected himself in this book or not. What is clear is that, frequently, brilliant people are forced to live lives they don't want, but find extremely painful and difficult to speak their minds. Think of XIX century, puritan Germany. There was noway that Hans could say to his father and the local leaders: &quot;Hey, I'm smart but I'm not that ambitious. I just want to develop like a normal boy and then see what happens. I'm free to decide my life&quot;. No way. He falls prey to strict social structures, as so many people do even today.<br />&quot;Under the wheel&quot; is certainly not one of the best books by Hesse. But it is well written and a first step in the elaboration of the basic subjects of all Hesse's work: the individual conscience and its relation to the World; the search to find a meaning to life; religion and individuality. Let's say that if you read this book, you'll find it easier to understand subsequent and more elaborate books.	2001-02-02
2117751:US	49263512	R1W93ML589WLUP	0060932678	495162113	The Autumn of the Patriarch (Perennial Classics)	Books	2	10	18	N	N	Boring and predictable	I like Garca Mrquez's literature. Three of his books are among my favorites. But this one I didn't like. I must say that I usually prefer demanding readings over &quot;light&quot; literature, so it's not the &quot;stream-of-consciousness&quot; what bored me (I love &quot;Ulysses&quot;, for example). But I did not find it interesting. 50 pages-long sentences must be really excellently crafted. I think in this work they are not. Perhaps for non-Latin Americans it is a wonderful tale about a bizarre Latin American dictator and the savage world over which he reins. But I knew right from the start that this would be a long mock and attack on dictatorships (which is perfectly fine), and I didn't want to read more. No problem, even the best artists are entitled to some bad results.	2001-02-02
2118108:US	49263512	RZQWLY72WQUH5	0938920278	289521067	In a Far Distant Land: Selected Stories (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent stories from a really far distant land	Bunin is a master storyteller, better than as a novelist precisely because his style is better suited to this field. The one I like most is &quot;The teacher&quot;, which tells the story of a small-town teacher who is once invited to dinner with the prominent citizens. There, he gets extremely drunk and disgraces himself. It has dark humor and tenderness at the same time. The rest of the tales are about life in small villages, where life is sad but sometimes lights up with unexpected events. The characters are lonely, alienated people, most of the time. But his writing is very good and the tempo is a permanent adagio. Worth your time.	2001-02-02
2118290:US	49263512	R26W1Q65A13P5K	1854591886	986030993	Life is a Dream	Books	5	55	61	N	N	Life is indeed a dream	This immortal play is an allegory: a tale which illustrates us on some superior truth, employing symbols. Basil is the king of Poland, who hides his son Sigmund (Freud?, just kidding)in a tower, for fear that an oracle may come true. Once, he takes him out to see what kind of man he is, and discovers Sigmund is arrogant and authoritarian. Then he puts him back in his cell and manages to convince him that everything was just a dream. After that, civil war begins, and Sigmund is out to fight, a totally different man from what he was.<br />&quot;Life is a dream&quot; is a play about the utter unreliability of our senses. Of course, we have to use them to figure out some reality in which we can live. But we have no idea of who we are and where we come from, much less what will happen after death. We also don't know what death is. It is also a case in favor of peace and solidarity. Why spend our brief and dream-like time on Earth being mean and dirty?: let's all be friendly and good, and this will be a good dream and not a nightmare.<br />Despite its philosophical subject, the play is quick-paced and funny. The plot to make Sigmund believe everything was a dream is hilarious, and it is easy to see why it's a classic. Read it.	2001-02-02
2118361:US	49263512	R3NIIEZ1P143VK	0192123157	462636450	His Last Bow (Sherlock Holmes)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Last chance to enjoy Holmes	After being killed in an adventure, Holmes suddenly reappears. Of course, the first thing he does is to tell how he came back alive. And then new, last stories, come up. The edition I read includes &quot;The valley of terror&quot;, a convoluted and terrifying story in which Holmes participates indirectly. One can not go wrong with Holmes. Inevitably, the quality of the stories is varied, but they are always fun to read. Doyle is indeed a great writer, who must be counted among the best writers, right there with the big language-innovators and &quot;serious&quot; literates.	2001-02-01
2118392:US	49263512	RZ0W48TOPCHR0	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A world in itself	Vargas LLosa, another great writer, said once that the novelist is a God-killer, who creates and manipulates his own world. Perhaps the finest example of this truth is this novel by Garcia Marquez. A metaphor of Colombia's history it may be, but that interpretation would be excessively narrow. Garcia Marquez creates a world with its own physical rules, its own gods and its own destiny. It traces the story of the Buendia family and Macondo, the town they founded and that will exist as long as the lineage exists. Of course, this is a thoroughly unpredictable novel, precisely because it does not follow the rules of the world we live in. The characters are complex but they are archetypical. Another revieweer correctly described the categories and personalities of women and men, and of the people sharing a particular name. This novel prompted the surge of &quot;magical realism&quot; and modern Latin American literature. Unfortunately although predictably, many bad imitations have followed, like the very bad &quot;Like water for chocolate&quot;. Don't read imitations, come to the real thing where unbelievable events happen without ever becoming corky. <br />The novel has biblical aspirations, and I could feel that throughout it all. It will rain for forty years; a man will stay enclosed in his room for years; a blood stain will wander the town. Extremely well written, it is a demandind text, not to be read while answering phone calls. Its beauty remains unsurpassed in its genre. It is perfectly woven and tightly knit, and it will stay with you for ever.	2001-02-01
2118536:US	49263512	RWOL5YQGHKDCH	9684191391	769551483	Casi El Paraiso	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Almost Paradise, but...	After the Revolution in Mexico, a new ruling class comes to power and money. Most of it is composed of people of humble origins, newly rich. Set in the middle of the &quot;Mexican Miracle&quot; of the 50's, the novel is an unforgiving account of corruption and the grose behavior of these naive yet ambitious and mean ruling class. An Italian handsome man, son of a prostitute, becomes a gigolo, specialized in rich old turists who give him money and are cheated, in exchange for good sex. With an American woman, he comes to Mexico, under the name of Prince Ugo Conti. His good looks and polished manners make him the &quot;babe&quot; of this snobbish and pretentious society, who swallow all the tale about his bieng a Prince. The utter stupidity and repellent social climbing of the rich and politically connected people takes him up the ladder, until the end. This is a fantastic mock and critique of those years, not at all gone by, in Mexico. Spota is cruel and mean to cruel and mean people. They all get just what they deserve in this social satire. Funny, dark-humored and rewarding, these novel should be translated to many languages. For stupidity, snobbism, ambition and self-delusion are no exclusive property of any particular society.	2001-02-01
2118768:US	49263512	R1GO3IKKFJDU9Z	0807055018	654628039	The Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico	Books	5	20	27	N	N	From the other side	First a cautionary note: I don't believe in &quot;good&quot; or &quot;bad&quot; in history. Things happen because of the complex interrelations between many factors, and coincidence (yes, it plays a role). So the worst way to read this book is from a sentimental point of view: mean Spaniards conquest and kill good Indians. Just imagine what would have happened if the human-sacrifice-prone Aztecs had conquered Spain (but then again, they had no ships to cross the Ocean).<br />Nevertheless, this is a crucial book, because it tells the story of the Conquest from the view of the conquered. That is needed to fully understand this vital historical process. The book is a selection of indigenous stories telling the event. One can perceive the utter terror and misery brought upon by the destruction of the Indian societies. The fear, the superstitions and the desolation of the Indians during and after the total destruction of their world. Leon Portilla has done a much-needed effort here. He deserves praise for it, and the book deserves to be read.	2001-02-01
2118879:US	49263512	R1AU4OO5STP2U1	0450029956	179128540	Other Worlds (SF Master)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Funny and imaginative	This is a compliation of two books, which tell the stories of Cyrano's travels to the Moon and the Sun. Cyrano satirizes 17-century French and European societies, through a hilarious use of the Classical and Christian traditions. In the first part, Cyrano wants to go to the Moon. His first idea is to use a belt containing pots of water: as they evaporate, the man will go up too. But it fails (not surprisingly). The he launches himself in a rocket, and lands on the Moon. Upon arrival, the inhabitants take him for a monkey and imprison him. Socrates's Demon liberates him, and introduces him to the famous personalitites living on the Moon. After several funny adventures, he goes back, landindg in Italy. The book reflects Cyrano's thoughts on several subjects: the theories of Copernico, heliocentrism (the belief that the center of the Universe is the Sun and not the Earth), and in general, Cyrano's advanced thinking for his time. <br />In the second book, Cyrano is believed to be crazy, and he's chased for imprisonment. He escapes in a machine that takes him to the Sun, where he has new and hilarious adventures. He meets Tomasso Campanella, an Italian philosopher, who takes him to the Land of Philosophers. These books should not be out of print, since they are not boring or confusing, but funny and enlightened. One additional advantage is that they were written by the real Cyrano, who would later appear as the hero of Rostand's play.	2001-02-01
2118984:US	49263512	R1RTNK4NDW2YPK	0292701322	189146590	The Burning Plain and Other Stories (Texas Pan-American Series)	Books	5	64	65	N	N	The perfect writing	One regrettable consequence of Garcia Marquez's fame is that Latin American literature has come to be identified exclusively with &quot;magical realism&quot;. Everything has to be extraordinary, epic, full of tropical lust, palms, jaguars, people having sex in every corner, flying to the sky with a pineapple on their heads. But Latin America is a vast continent producing artist of universal stature, even if the rest of the world decides (to their disadvantage) to ignore all but the folkloric.<br />Well, Juan Rulfo is a master of the highest sort and this book is NOT magical realism, but pure, hard realism. He only wrote two books, this one and &quot;Pedro Paramo&quot;, another masterpiece which I also don't count as magical realism, although some do, as well as a few lesser works. He didn't need to write much. His is a literature worked and reworked restlessly, until reaching perfection. Every single word fits perfectly with the rest. There are no digressions, no philosophy, no theories or grand landscapes. All his tales develop in Southern Jalisco, in a poor, dry, vast, sunburned and sad land. The prose is also dry, precise, economical and to the point. The characters are ignorant, miserable, but conscious and courageous. The titles say much: &quot;It's because we are so poor&quot; is one of them. However, you will not find self-pity or corny sad tales. Only bits of human misery perfectly narrated. By the way, this is the first review I write for Amazon in which I use the word &quot;perfect&quot;. Probably it won't happen again, with one or two exceptions.	2001-02-01
2119015:US	49263512	R1W0ANEO920RXN	0553381008	865881389	Stories of Anton Chekhov	Books	5	14	19	N	N	One of the best short-story writers	The commonplace has it that short-story is the hardest of all literary genres. It may be true. Reading these works by Chekhov, though, it looks easy. That is precisely thanks to his skills. Chekhov's stories have many different subjects, standpoints and even styles. They range from the satirical, to the socially conscious, to the very intimate, to the sad and tender. One of the less obscure Russian authors, nevertheless Chekhov has that Russian touch of melancholy and nostalgia. <br />He once said that medicine was his legal wife, and literature his mistress. Well, he loved his mistress much. The combination is fortunate, though, because he uses his clinical eye, his experience with suffering, death and the moving situations that come up in that environment, to sharpen his perception of the human soul. No epic overtones here. His stories talk about common people, of different origins and sorts. They don't talk about fantastic or exceptional situations, but about the strange, wonderful or terrible things that happen in everyday life. Some of my favorites: &quot;The kiss&quot;, an enigmatic tale about a stolen smack on the lips of a young girl; &quot;The house with the mezaninne&quot;, &quot;Enemies&quot;, &quot;The lady with the little dog&quot;. Summing up, &quot;delicious&quot; is the appropriate word to describe these great stories.	2001-02-01
2119036:US	49263512	R1M4Q9B24SQAVX	0385074077	236471423	Complete Stories and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	129	151	N	N	Deep into the psyche	The horror of being; the darkest depths of man's soul; the deepest fears brought about by darkness: it's all here. This is the work of the original genius of terror. And the most terrifying thing about Poe's stories and poems is that the threat doesn't come from a monster, or a devil, or a murderer: it comes from inside yourself, from your mind and your heart. There's no escaping them. Poe is not, of course a &quot;terror&quot; writer. He's just a writer, and one of the best there has been. His work can not be confined to a &quot;genre&quot;. His tales touch horror, but there are some analytical, metaphysical, futurists, and tales of love (strange love, but love). <br />As correctly pointed out by other reviewers, Poe practically invented the mystery tale in which the detective is an amateur who solves the problem through reason and deduction alone (&quot;The crimes of the Rue Morgue&quot;). A wonderful cryptic and deductive tale is &quot;The golden bug&quot;. &quot;The cask of Amontillado&quot; is a masterpiece of cruel vengeance. &quot;The pit and the pendulum&quot; is pure terror, like  &quot;The black cat&quot;. <br />The poems have even more variety. You know what the famous ones are: The Raven, The bells, Annabel Lee. Here, the most remarkable characteristics are music and rhythm. &quot;Quoth the raven: nevermore!&quot;, and the ringing of the bells, the bells, bells, bells, etc. My personal favorite is Annabel Lee, but there are many other, less known, which are just excellent.<br />Poe was a troubled man, addicted to drugs and alcohol, who died in a miserable way (some thugs made him drink to use him in an electoral fraud; he died from drunkness on the streets of Baltimore). But his intellect and sensibility (hypersensibility) made him a true genius, a profound connoiseur of the human soul, up and down. His writing is superb and he will remain as a master of literature for centuries to come. In case you have never approached his work, do so now. Choose yourfavorite couch; wait until everybody is asleep, get yourself a good drink, and travel to the bottom of your own soul.	2001-02-01
2119107:US	49263512	R2MM3DRY7VOZ78	847880904X	714547607	La Tournee de Dios (Clasicos del Humor) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	If God came to town	I doubt this book has been translated to English, but maybe some people out there speaks Spanish and might be interested in it. Which would be smart, since it is a great novel, the best by the wonderful humorist from early XX century, Jardiel Poncela. One day, God announces to the Pope that he's coming to the Earth, specifically to Spain. An important journalist wins the exclusive and is appointed to interview God at his arrival. People from the whole world congregate at Madrid, to cheer him up (and ask him things). But God is not what anyone expected. He's a simple character, a humble &quot;man&quot; with wise words that nobody listen to. People are expecting something entirely different. Why, he's THE celebrity. God addresses the crowd in the famous Bullfighting Arena in Madrid. And the message is lost. Hearing strange and simple words coming from him, the crowd leaves him alone. After some things more happen, God understands it's been a mistake to come down and leaves. This novel starts as a comical romp, but slowly its tone changes to confusion, resentment, and a deep sadness. God's address at the Bullfighting Plaza is simply excellent and moving. I hope someone reads this and is able to find this novel. It is great.	2001-02-01
2119116:US	49263512	RTZMIFGTXY30U	0812565681	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Tor Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The most magnificent revenge ever	Edmond Dantes is a young sailor about to marry the daughter of the shipping company's owner. Two rascals, one for pure envy and the other because he also loves the girl, accuse him falsely of political conspiracy. The judge, a coward named Villefort, sends him to prison, trying to cover up on his father, who really is a conspirator. Edmond stays 14 years at the prison-island of If. During that time, he gets in contact with the Abbe Faria, a wise churchman who converts him into an educated man and, by listening to Edmond's story, discovers the treason and the gulity. Shortly before dying, Faria tells Edmonmd where to find an enormous treasure. When he dies, Edmond substitutes for him in the body-bag. The guards throw the bag to the sea and Edmond rips it open with a knife, goes to Montecristo and yes, the treasure is there. For ten years, he travels the world, becomes an enigmatic and cultivated man, and then sets to his goal in life: take revenge on those who damaged him, and reward the people who were good to him. And he does it in the grandest style you can imagine. The reader is pleased at the revenge and reward Montecristo brings on all the people he knew. The scenes are lush, brilliant, luxurious. Memorable ones are: the Venice carnival, where he meets the children of some of his enemies, and his entrance into the Paris jet-set. Unlike some reviewers, I don't complain about the length; if anything, I would have liked more adventures. It is hard to imagine a more colorful and brilliant novel, with a better plot and characters.	2001-02-01
2119235:US	49263512	R1BO8KT48VS9RS	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	One of his best	True love exists. Set in the traditional and magical humid towns of Colombia, this tale of love develops for fifty years. There is almost no magical realism here, but magic of a higher sort: the magic of a true and desperate love. The novel is not tragic nor edulcorated: it is witty and funny. Florentino Ariza is a rather poor young man deeply in love with Fermina Daza, a well-to-do miss. She likes him, but decids to marry a prosperous physician, who is a good but rather dull man. Florentino never gets married, since he is always hoping that, somehow, Fermina will be one day by his side. In the long meantime, he has sex with hundreds of women, but never finds a love to replace Fermina in his heart. Parallel to the unfulfilled love affair, we are told the story of many times when cholera hits the town, with the drama of that disease compared to what Florentino feels for Fermina. The novel is long but you'll read quickly. It is one of the best stories of love there are, and Garcia Marquez is at his best here, along with &quot;Chronicle of a death foretold&quot; and &quot;One hundred years of solitude&quot;.	2001-02-01
2119259:US	49263512	R265LH5IP3CGGM	9681615069	466456520	Los antiguos mexicanos a travs de sus crnicas y cantares (Popular) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Important historical effort	Knowledge of history is one of the best sources of wisdom there are. Dr. Leon Portilla, a serious anthropologist and historian, recovers here many sources of the history of the ancient inhabitants of what is now Central Mexico. Certainly advanced cultures in some respects (very backwards in some other), but doomed to fall prey to the Conquerors, mainly due to two reasons: the Spaniard's more advanced technology, and the internal dissensions of the Indian cultures. This book is very important because it allows us to understand better the societies that existed before the Conquest. Leon Portilla includes original texts and interpretations of the poems, the philosophy and the cosmovision of the Nahua world. Rigorous and extremelly well-researched.	2001-02-01
2119408:US	49263512	R1OA6D2IY5UZ9D	0811202089	343983935	Quite Early One Morning: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poems of nostalgia and Wales	This book is a compilation of Thomas' sessions at the BBC. There are poems in prose and in verse. His style transmits nostalgia for his native Wales. Some of the best parts are his sketches of other Welch poets. A highly recommendable book by one very good poet, the same one who died in New York at the Chelsea hotel, after having more than 40 scotchs with soda. His poetry is rhythmical and clear, very imaginative and precise.	2001-02-01
2119466:US	49263512	R30WMEKA2T268I	9686769595	148910520	El Hombre Mediocre (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	If we all were geniuses, who would stand out?	Ingenieros is right: the genius is that man of superior qualities that surfaces at the right time and place, to lead people and to enlighten the world. The genius stands out, above the masses, and usually is despised or mocked at by the ignorant and the mediocre. The genius is always chasing an ideal. All this is correct, but there is a problem. The fact that one is not a genius does not mean that he/she is necessarily mediocre. The progress of the world may be led and inspired by geniuses, but it is the common man who accomplishes it: decent, hard-working and smart common people achieve social reforms in practice. Besides, to be a genius doesn't necessarily mean being good: one can argue that Hitler or Lenin were geniuses, but the results of their leadership has been far from convenient. Hitler chased an ideal, and not alone, but followed by many people. True: the masses are ignorant and hypocritical, and that's why they need enlightened leaders in every field. So, let's glorify the uncommon man, but let's not think that we all should be geniuses: decency and education will do for most of us.	2001-02-01
2119559:US	49263512	RE85Y5ZJPI0S9	842390122X	18798566	La Tia Tula / Aunt Tula (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Why does she deny herself?	Tula and Rosa are two orphans raised by their priest uncle. Ramiro is a young man who falls for Tula, but she is a tough young woman who refuses him and prompts Ramiro to marry Rosa instead. Rosa is a feeble woman who gives birth to three children before dying. Tula steps in to take care of the children, and then Ramiro asks her again to marry him. Tula refuses one more time, and becomes Aunt Tula. She is the real head of the family, a firm but loving woman. One of the kids, Manuela, adores her and starts becoming a new Aunt Tula. Ramiro, very sad at her refusals, marries the maid and has two more kids. The the maid dies and Ramiro follows. Before he dies, Tula confesses her love for him. Why the hell then didn't she marry him? We are left without a clue: maybe it's because of the stern and restrictive Catholicism of Spain in those times, maybe she's frigid, maybe whatever. But the novel is good and the character is interesting.	2001-02-01
2119583:US	49263512	RW0KU8FR67O69	8423949249	564797506	El Corazon de Piedra Verde	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Much better and accurate than &quot;Aztec&quot;	Madariaga does know what he's talking about, unlike Gary Jennings in &quot;Aztec&quot;. Madariaga is a renowned historian who takes advantage of his knowledge and his writing skills to give us an epic novel of the Mexican Conquest. It traces the parallel lives of Xuchitl, a princess from Texcoco, and Alonso de Manrique, a well-to-do young man from Spain. Madariaga portraits the social context in which their lives develop. The Ancient Mexican culture is fascinatingly depicted, as well as the Spain of the Inquisition and the war against the Moors. Religion, politics and social situations paint a broad canvass in which the love story evolves. Alonso goes to Mexico with Cortes, helping him conquer what is now Mexico. He and Xuchitl fall in love instantly and, of course, that love is difficult but passionate. Madariaga's images are powerful, the tone epic and the result, a great read for anybody. The characters are unforgettable and the book has a bright light and colors that make it a grand novel.	2001-02-01
2119593:US	49263512	R1NT2XDIDBWXUX	0671027034	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	2	19	36	N	N	How to be a good salesman	I did not like this book. I acknowledge it is a smart book, full of practical advice to go up the ladder and get what you want. And, most of all, people still find it useful for their careers. But the title is misleading: it doesn't teach how to make friends (no book could be useful at that), but how to make good business deals. The anecdotes are fine, but the overall feeling I was left with is that the book tries to teach how to manipulate people without the others ever noticing. The message is cynical and extremely cheap: &quot;Cheat and deceive, and you'll get a better position in an American corporation&quot;. There are better, deeper and funnier books to read.	2001-02-01
2119714:US	49263512	RZGF4F43ZO2V9	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	What are you chasing?	We call classics those works of art which say something essential about the humankind and that also say different things to different people, no matter when or where they live. This book is one of those. It is a story of adventures in the sea; of the obsession of a man; of Fate and its inevitability; of the blind race that is life; of the undesirability of getting what we lust after. The plot is the simlpest, as it happens with many masterpieces: Ismael tells us the story of a mad captain whose only thought is to kill the whale who damaged him. The symbolism is not hard to find. What happens in between is great literature. Instead of writing a long and pretentious lecture, Melville decided to tell his message in a novel of adventures. We travel the world with Ahab, witnesses of his madness and his deep humanity (not understood as goodness, of course). In a sense, we all are Ahab: we lust for something we don't really know, and we spend our lives running after that undefinable object, until we die. Moby Dick has a quasi-biblical tone and ambience (and size), but every single page is worth the time.	2001-01-31
2119776:US	49263512	R21T08OTGO7T10	087286216X	291836465	Twenty Prose Poems (French and English Edition)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	One of the first modern poets	Modernity is what defines the work of Baudelaire. No elegant poems of love; no countryside-dreaming; no evocation of the Classics nor references to the past. On the contrary: urban life; the alienation brought aboout by capitalism; the angst of poor urban dwellers; alcohol and drugs. Poetry is no more just the search for beauty through words. Now, it is a vehicle for the expression of the individual. Content is more important than form, and therefore Baudelaire gets rid of the constraints imposed by verse, even free verse, and lets his soul spill out in a not lyrical, but dark manner.	2001-01-31
2119834:US	49263512	R1H3SO4A3GY9A2	0140442715	157276294	A Murky Business (UNE TENEBREUSE AFFAIRE)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Should be one of the most famous	A Murky Business is wonderful. The acute eye and superb writing of Balzac are put in service of a political mystery novel. Napoleon is trying to conquer Europe, and Fouche, his police chief (a fascinating historical character) is covering his back, doing all the dirty work. For Napoleon has powerful enemies who are conspiring to depose him. Malin is one of the conspirators, a man who buys a big house called Gondreville, in rural Champagne. Mich, his servant, helps her beautiful and rich neighbor, Lorence de Cynq-Cygne (one of Balzac's strongest and smartest female characters) to get their cousins secretly into France. These guys, called Simeuse, are conspirators exiled by Napoleon. Fouche gets to know the Simeuses are back in France, and starts the search for them, kidnapping Malin. What follows I won't spoil, but it is a great novel with a very dark tone. There are spies, traitors, revenge and passion. I am amazed that this novel is not much more famous, since it is magnificent entertainment and excellent literature.	2001-01-31
2120035:US	49263512	R3P1GMP990RGFQ	0785918426	737144460	L'Ensorcelee	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;Bewitched&quot;: politics and horror in the mist	This 19 century French author has been unjustly forgotten. At least two of his books should belong to the Western canon: &quot;L'ensorcele&quot; and &quot;Les diaboliques&quot;. <br />&quot;L'ensorcele&quot;, or &quot;The bewitched&quot;, tells the story of the Abbe Croix-Jugan, a bad man who was forced by his family to become a priest. What he really likes, though, is political intrigue. Being a brave fellow, he fights with the &quot;chouans&quot;, royalist guerrillas sponsored by aristocrats, intent on deposing the post-Revolutionary governments of France. When he sees his cause is lost, he shots himself in the face, but is rescued by a peasant family. When he recovers, the Church sends him to the almost desert and remote swamps in Northern France. There, he goes on with his political conspiracies, using as a messenger a young noble lady, Jeanne, who is impressed and almost in love with him, despite his being a deformed man (physically and spiritually). What follows is an amazing tale of horror, violence, and ghosts. The environment is superb, perfect for this kind of story, and the ending is just marvelous. If you happen to come across this book, read it. It's good.	2001-01-31
2120082:US	49263512	R2SBUPP586YEXW	0785921850	678702037	Le Chevalier des Touches	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The adventures of a royalist hero	One night, in a castle, a group of old people remember their many adventures of old, when they fought against the post-Revolutionary government of France. They remind themselves of the brave leader, &quot;The knight of Touches&quot; of the title. Des Touches had an important role as the messenger between the royalists refuged in England, and the fighters in France. <br />This is not the typical XIX century novel of adventures, it's not swashbuckling. On the contrary, it's dark and nostalgic, and the characters are complex and strange. But it does contain interesting adventures and twists. The ending is funny and less dark, a tender and spicy anecdote involving one of the old ladies present at the conversation. Worth reading.	2001-01-31
2120182:US	49263512	R3P3LCM83CV868	9683801579	214109055	El rediezcubrimiento de Mexico (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hilarious and revealing	This comic novel, in the form of an autobiography, tells the story of Ceferino, a Spaniard who goes to Mexico when he's 20. There he has a lot of adventures. The first ten years, he works for an uncle, and then travels around the country selling books. He gets to be friend and &quot;compadre&quot; of a typical Mexican. Later, he wins in the lottery and buys some factories. When he's older, he returns to Spain, only to notice he feels strange there. The he goes back to Mexico. The novel serves as an objective look on Mexico and the Mexicans, with a delicious sense of humor. It has not lost its flavor after 30 years or so, and it still makes for a very pleasant and funny book, from an author with great skills for the comic, the farce, and the sarcasm.	2001-01-31
2120221:US	49263512	R3D66PFLA2VD4K	0801863236	862390230	Jerusalem Delivered (Gerusalemme liberata)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	War and love in the First Crusade	This magical epic poem tells the story of the First Crusade, led by Godfrey of Bouillon and other European noblemen and warriors. The story is full of supernatural characters and events. It develops during the bloody siege of Jerusalem, against the Moors and their famous leader, Soliman. The story is violent and erotic, especially the torrid love affair between Tancred, the bravest of the Christians, and Clorinda, a fierce but beautifl warrioress. Written in the XVI century, this book captures the spirit and ideology of the Middle Ages, specifically the XI century. Like in &quot;Curial and Guelfa&quot;, Christian symbols mix with Greco-Roman ones, in a tale of war and sex. Tasso's images are powerful and the poem is anything but childish or naive. As I said, it is violent and full of action. It contains no boring digressions or reflections, but pure action.	2001-01-31
2120702:US	49263512	RN7UIIVBD1EXE	0140441654	302329004	Utopia (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	81	96	N	N	&quot;In no place&quot;	As a social critique of Enlgish and European society, this book is very effective. It is also beautifully written. But it should not be read as the depiction of what society should be like. Thomas More, a wise and brave man executed by orders of Henry VIII, knew that Utopia shouldn't be taken very seriously, and that is exactly why he used the word Utopia to name his famous island.  Utopia, in latin, means &quot;in no place&quot;, that what can not exist. The problem is that this simple fact was not understood by many. And so, &quot;utopianism&quot; was born. The preposterous belief that there is a universal and definitive form of organization for human societies led to disasters like Nazism and Communism. By organizing everything perfectly (according to who?), these systems become the negation of the very essence of the human being: its innate imperfection and its need to be constantly changing, always on the move. It is simply impossible that some political, economic and social system resolves once and for all the troubles of humanity. Problems are exactly what make humans progress and reform constantly. Besides, the State has proven indispensable for survival, but also limited in what it can accomplish (in Utopia, the State provides everything for everybody). Stagnant societies degenerate and disappear, or remain to live from the charity of dynamic societies. Closed, perennial social systems, simply don't work: there is abundant proof in history, ancient or recent. &quot;Utopia&quot; is an excellent account of human shortcomings and a good tale, but it is not, nor was intended to be, a recipe with solutions for the world. Aldous Huxley and George Orwell have shown us what might happen in a supposed Utopia. The Communist world was worse. And Anthony Burgess clearly shows us in &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot;, that in &quot;perfect&quot; societies, the only way to practice freedom is violence. Let's not be perfect.	2001-01-31
2120963:US	49263512	R3Q1TY7I4M2Y2	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A titanic piece of work	Victor Hugo, the great Romantic, creates a whole world in this supreme novel. You can not enjoy it if you don't plunge into it and live inside for several (quite) days. I join the club of &quot;don't read abridged versions&quot;: if you're not willing to savor the book, read something you are able to eat and digest.  The story is well known, if only for the musical, which I don't want to see. Jean Valjean is a poor guy who is imprisoned for stealing a piece of bread. 20 years after, he gets out of prison and steals from a priest who has been good to him. The rest is the epic of the permanent reinvention of an essentially good man who is haunted by his past, incarnated in Javert, the relentless policeman.<br />This epic book confronts many issues, the main one being the judicial law vs. moral law. Or &quot;good&quot; versus &quot;right&quot;. But it is not a treatise, it's a novel which situates the action in a broad, wide context. For example, in the episode where Valjean takes refuge in a convent, Hugo depicts the situation, characteristics and life in French convents. When Valjean rescues Mario from death in the barricades, and travel along the Paris sewer system, Hugo tells us the story of this system of sewers. For impatient and light readers, these are boring and unnecessary digressions. For the good reader, they put the whole story in its environment, which is precisely why the book leaps from tender and moving to epic and historical. It is full of adventures, moral dilemmas, difficult situations for the characters, and a tragical mood. The action moves from one place to another, spanning many years and focusing alternatively on the many characters, so it is constantly on the move. The characters are not simple stereotype: they are human beings with understandable, if questionable, motivations for what they do, and become almost real as you read. Highly recommended.	2001-01-30
2121247:US	49263512	R3OBL0T7XXJ0S7	014044260X	792142228	The Chouans (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Interesting historical background	This early novel is set in the civil war which followed the French Revolution, betweeen Republicanists and Royalists, called &quot;chouans&quot;. These were guerrill-type bands sponsored by aristocrats, fighting to depose the new regime and reestablish the old one. In the plot, a Republican woman is sent to France to help with intelligence-gathering. But she falls in love with one of the chouan leaders. Another spy maneuvres to make her think her lover has betrayed her, and so she conspires against him. I don't share the other reviewers's opinion that it is a bad novel. It is just an average one by a great writer. I enjoyed it, though.	2001-01-30
2121375:US	49263512	R219Q1H5KC8254	0451521900	525889886	Pere Goriot (Signet classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ungratefulness and misery	Goriot is an unscrupulous pasta merchant who amasses a fortune and manages to get his two beloved daughters married to wealthy men. To accomplish that, he gives away all his money to the daughters, who turn out to despise their father for his humble origin. They turn him away, forbidding him to live wtih them, and so he moves to a flophouse. Pain and poverty consume the man, who lives in the small world of the boarding house. There, he befriends Eugene de Rastignac, a naive young man aspiring to climb in the upper society of frivolous Paris. Vautrin, a regular in Balzac's novels, is an ex-con with a great and mysterious personality, and with a past. Rastignac becomes the lover of one of Goriot's daughters, an affair which only leads to misery. Goriot will die lonely and poor, his life destroyed by pain and a profound sadness inflicted on him by his beloved daughters. This is one of Balzac's best books, a deep portrait of the misery of the human condition as well as a depiction of the decadent society of Paris in the 19 century. Note that Paris' dcadence is in no way exclusive to that place or age, just as the human condition hasn't changed much since. Balzac was a master writer, and this novel is an excellent example of what he could do with words. A must for literature lovers.	2001-01-30
2122098:US	49263512	R20A9HK4D5Y3E9	0140444211	762791684	The Politics (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	86	95	N	N	The birth of systematic political thought	Just as in most of his other books, in &quot;The Politics&quot;, Aristotle becomes the founder of organized, ordered, and systematic thought. Of course, he was not the first philosopher to think about the organization and governance of societies, but his work is the first classification and comparison of different possible systems. As I said in a recent review of Aristotle's  &quot;Nicomachean Ethics&quot;, his greatest originality is the stripping off of myth, legend, metaphor and poetics from his exposition of the subject. This is his main difference with his predecessor and teacher, Plato. This makes for a drier reading, but also for a clearer and better organized rendering of his clear thought. It can be said, moreover, that Plato and Aristotle constitute the founding pillars of the two main currents in Western thought: idealism (Plato) vs. realism (Aristotle). Although any tragedies deriving from these sources is, of course, not a responsibility of these great thinkers, it can be said, in general, the following:<br />The idealist tradition inaugurated by Plato led to the rise of universal, all-encompassing theories. That is, those which assert that there is a single unifying principle tying up together economics, politics, ethics, and social organization, and that this principle (whichever it may be) is suitable for any society at any time and place. Hence, Rousseaunianism, Socialism, Communism.<br />The &quot;realist&quot; tradition springing from Aristotle simply says that human problems can not be resolved by magical formulas or recipes. Social situations can not be severed from their immediate environment. Aristotle, then, classifies possible types of systems and defines their advantages and disadvantages for different types of societies. His approach, then, is that there can be no universal and general solutions or organizing principles. Aristotle is absolutely practical in his approach, as opposed to the theoretical systems imagined (as opposed to observed) by Plato. Hence: liberalism, Realpolitik, capitalism, democracy (or I should say &quot;capitalisms&quot; and &quot;democracies&quot;, since there are very different varieties of these systems). Aristotle examines then distinct kinds of Constitutions, what they require to be effective, and what effects they might bring upon. <br />Read it, then, for a clear and well-ordered exposition of themes, subthemes, and advice. Here you will find the origin of half of Western political thought. And precisely the half that seems to be winning the race.	2001-01-30
2122397:US	49263512	R1UY926PF6MI44	0521077850	3641717	Thomas Arnold on Education (Cambridge Texts and Studies in the History of Education)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What kind of students do we need?	This series of essays include: &quot;On the education of the middle classes&quot;, &quot;Rugby: the use of classics&quot;, &quot;On discipline in schools&quot;, and &quot;Education and instruction&quot;. Arnold was the most important reformer of British education in the Nineteenth century, and his insights are not at all dated. The main subject of his reflections is the student, and the question: &quot;What kind of persons do we want to form at our schools?&quot; is exactly the question we should be asking ourselves, in every country, when trying to think about education today. <br />Arnold answers in a straight way: we should educate free-thinking but responsible citizens (&quot;Christian gentlemen&quot;, he calls them, but the concept can be updated). <br />The concepts are clear: middle classes have to be enlightened in order to be a reliable backbone of society; the classics are relevant and indispensable; discipline is necessary but should be smartly applied; education is not equal to instruction, although they reinforce each other. In most countries, one of the hottest issues is education reform. Tons of daily data illustrate us about many failures in our educational systems, from kids shooting people to young people unable to enter the productive sector because of lack of adequate tools. This kind of book may not be useful for its details, but it certainly is in the basic message: schools should help produce productive, responsible and sensible people. Not just admnistrative machines, not just computer whiz kids, not just competitive animals. A good book to put back in focus the central aspects of education, in our confused world. Read it for the reflections and the issues. The fact that it's out of print and that I am the first person to review it here, speaks for itself: we have neglected enlightened and common-sense educators, preferring distorted theories and foolish ideas like moral relativism. We should take a look to professional pedagogues.	2001-01-29
2122408:US	49263512	R3M352FL5RT2NF	0811803201	801557598	Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Modern love poems	Of course, these poems are best when read in their original language, as with all poetry. But I think Neruda is translatable, as much as a poet can be. It is easy to see why these poems appeal to all, or almost all, people who read them. They go directly to our feelings, as we all have some very special people in our past to relate them to (and people who don't have anyone to remember have certainly lived miserable lives).<br />The language of Neruda is sophisticated, memories are convoluted, but so are all memories of love: sophisticated and distorted by memory, regret, nostalgia and longing for those loves to come back. They do when we read Neruda. He is not one of my favorite poets. I especially dislike his political (procommunist) poetry of later days. But I certainly enjoy reading his words and seeing the images he paints, the sounds he evocates, the smells that remain in the back of my head from earlier loves. Highly recommended for reading and re-reading.	2001-01-29
2122859:US	49263512	R2AXK6DXPBGK2B	072930096X	500458629	Jose de Espronceda: El estudiante de Salamanca and other poems (Grant & Cutler Spanish Texts)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An overview of Romanticism	In all the Romantic movement, Espronceda stands out as one of the writers who best captured, in full, the spirit of Romanticism: reappreciation and idealization of the past; an emphasis on &quot;sense and sensibility&quot; over logic and reason; the interaction between the natural and the supernatural; an association between demoniacal forces and human passion. The Student of Salamanca is a marvelous poem that touches upon the Devil, passion, as well as cloak-and-dagger adventures. All his works develop in the context of a Gothic environment and mood: dark alleys, the sound of steps of unknown source, reluctant lovers, and the Devil himself.<br />Certainly, his style is not fashionable now, but please note that the subjects are. In Spanish, the tone is wonderful and it should be also in a good translation, for his poetics have a high rethoric, but the language is not arcane or obscure. So, come along with Espronceda and court a beautiful brunette from under her balcony, with the Devil by your side.	2001-01-29
2122891:US	49263512	R3QWIG56FKON5R	0048232173	791402253	Curial and Guelfa (UNESCO collection of representative works)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	If you really want to know what the MIddle Ages were like	Then, instead of reading contemporary reassessments of the Age, go to a direct source, one written shortly after that time. Oh, the language and style are very different from modern literature. So it's not like reading Og Mandino, but that feature allows you precisely to get all the mood and the environment. <br />This &quot;novel&quot; was written by an anonymous author, in the language of Catalunya in the Fifteenth Century, and the action takes place in much of Europe. It is the story of Curial, a young man who wins the love and admiration of Guelfa, an aristocrat from Lombardy. But then he loses the lady's appreciation, and his misadventures begin. Afer seven years in Africa, first as a slave and then as a merchant, he regains his fortune and returns to Europe. Then, after many adventures, duels, and fights, he is once again in high esteem as a Chevalier, and so obtains back the lady's favor. They get married and he receives the County of Orange. <br />The action is a mix of fantastic dreams, as well as interventions from Greek and Roman gods, and Christian deities, such as the Virgin and several Saints. This is just wonderful: although the characters are Christians, they equally seem to believe in the Greco-roman deities, which reveals something very interesting about the book: that it was written horseback during the end of the Middle Ages and the surfacing of the Renaissance. The scenery is great, including terrible fights between knights in shining armor.	2001-01-29
2122983:US	49263512	R2EIFYSSVPR9KO	0140431209	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good story with important social issues	Few females were writing fiction in those days, but it says a good thing about Great Britain that most of them were British. Mary Ann Evans, the real name of &quot;George Eliot&quot;, was an enlightened and socially conscious woman, who wrote a story about the Torvill family, from the standpoint of Maggie, a young girl with a sharp mind, struggling to be herself in a world which was hard for that kind of person. The central theme is perhaps her struggle between family loyalty and independent spirit, as revealed through her relationship with his beloved, but tough, brother. The book is long and evocative, painting with acuteness the social surroundings in which the story develops. And the development intertwines many messages and situations, always revealing Maggie's inner self. One important characteristic of the book is that it is difficult to classify, since it contains features of Romanticism and Realism; social narrative and a glimpse into what psyichological literature would be in the Twentieth century.	2001-01-29
2122995:US	49263512	R1506M67RIPHMU	014044050X	11361223	Eugenie Grandet (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Excellent literature, period.	This is the extremely sad and powerfully written story of Eugenie Grandet, a true heroine of modern literature (yes, modern). In the town of Saumur, M. Grandet is a wine merchant, a miser in full. This is a despicable man, but like good characters in literature, he has an understandable, if unjustifiable, reason for his behavior. He wants to give his family a perennial financial security. The problem is, that is all he wants for his family. Nothing else matters. So the family leads a monastical life, luxury is forbidden, joy is expensive. Eugenie is a likable but shy young lady, without any knowledge of the world whatsoever. Balzac is just great at creating the environment and mood. You can see the big, old house, the leaves fallen from the trees and rustling in the silent evenings of this town. You can feel the boredom of lifeless life, the long, long afternoons. The avaricious man lecturing everybody for spending like crazy, anguished at every penny spent, regardless of what was bought or consumed. <br />So, two families are looking forward to having one of their sons married to Eugenie, but Daddy is looking for more wealth, and refuses to share his with these provincial people. Then his brother committs suicide in account of financial trouble, and Grandet's nephew, Charles, comes to town. He and Eugenie fall in love, but there is no chance M. Grandet will accept a marriage with the son of a ruined man. Charles, thus, leaves for the Indies to look for fortune. Someday he'll come back, but things will never be the same. As the years pass, we see Eugenie go on with her dull life, her heart saddened and cold. <br />Balzac's novel paints an accurate and believable portrait of French society at the time, but it would not have survived if that had been all. As the title of this review states, this work has transcended because it is literature of the higher sort, that which goes directly to the human heart and mind, to situations that do not pass with age, but remain embedded in any society. And because the writer is a master craftsman: Balzac is one of the best. Think of novel and think of Balzac, &quot;competitor with the Civil Records&quot;: a rigorous analyst of human, and not only French, society.	2001-01-29
2123128:US	49263512	R59HG6E56W1YB	8421616013	821077309	Lazarillo de Tormes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Classical literature is NOT boring	Nobody knows for sure who wrote this early novel. But we should be glad he did. This book takes the form of an autobiographical tale, where Lazaro de Tormes tells his misadventures. He is a street-boy, an orphan in constant risk of starvation in a poor Spain, where the richess of the New World never trickled down to the poor inhabitants not connected to the Conquest.<br />Lazarillo, then, makes a living -if you can call that to make a living- as servant to different miserable characters who exploit and abuse him. But he is anything but a fool. Lazaro is always on the move to cheat and deceive his masters, if only to be able to put something into his stomach and avoid starvation. His adventures are not nice, but brutal. Be it with a blind master, or an avaricious and poor priest, Lazaro is always having funny and hysterical adventures. The best thing about the book is Lazaro's attitude: deep inside, the guy is a winner, not a loser, and he is willing to do anything to go up in life, as far as he can, which is not much: he ends up marrying a priest's mistress (check the mock at the Church) and landing a job which required him to accompany prisoners to their execution (not the nicest of jobs, but at least he got a salary). The adventures are hilarious, the character unforgettable by any means. Besides, you can get a good glimpse at the state of Spanish society at the time, but never forget that, even in rich societies, miserable people abound, and the Lazarillos are still out there, in the streets, living day by day, having adventures not funny at all. Good literature with a great social landscape.	2001-01-29
2123185:US	49263512	RJ0Q4PSRH3ZTT	0192836684	223272136	Cousin Bette (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Destiny takes revenge on the ugly lady	In this most paradoxical of all novels, Destiny takes revenge on the ungrateful cousin Bette, eptihome of ugliness of soul. Wonderful tale of unfaithfulness, deception, betrayal and lust, as well as hatred, set in middle Nineteenth century Paris, in the world of high finance and politics. The Hulots are a wealthy family. Hortense is Bette's cousin, who has made a fortunate marriage (to Bette's beloved, though). Hortense is good to her cousin, bringing her to live with them in a beautiful house. The Hulots are good to her, but she only wants revenge. And so, she tries with all her might to destroy the family. She has many chances to do it, because the Hulots are flawed, especially the men, who are womanizers of the highest sort. Intrigue is Bette's favorite sport, intrigue with meanness and cruelty.  But no good comes from bad deeds, and life, the always ironic life, will not allow Bette's deeds to accomplish her revenge. She does accomplish much evil and disgrace, but the unfolding of events prevents her from triumph. Fortunately, since the good characters get to go on with their imperfect but mostly rewarding lives. This novel is one of Balzac's best (and there are many good ones). It belongs to the best canon of Western literature and will stand the test of time, once again because it touches on the universal features of human soul, ungratefulness being one of the most pervasive. Highly recommended, not least because the reader enjoys all the back-stabbing and the ultimate defeat of the ugly lady. Indeed, we see that envy is one of the worst sins.	2001-01-29
2123283:US	49263512	R3BYADVFZVHD0A	0393001261	244993489	What Is Philosophy?	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Clear and straightforward	In this book of essays, the great conservative philosopher from Spain exposes his theory of &quot;vitalism&quot;. His main line of argument is that what really exists, what we truly are able to know it's there, is life. Not the I, not thought, nor matter, but life. Hence, the central problem of philosophy is the nature and essence of life: what it is, where it comes from, where it leads, how to cope with it. The whole idea is that philosophy should not be an eternal and circular reflection on abstract thoughts, but a well-ordered system of thought that enables us humans to live better, to understand better life and all that it is filled with. Caution: Ortega never argues in favor of a vulgar popularization or a cheapening of philosophy. He only tries to give the message that philosophy is for the living, for the common people (as individuals connected to community, but never as masses, cfr. &quot;The revolt of the masses&quot;).<br />Philosophy, then, must be connected to real experience. The philosopher must come out of the Ivory Tower, and experience life in the streets. Otherwise, philosophy will remain an abstruse and esoteric matter, only for those initiated, and that philosophy is not much useful. As with other thinkers, Ortega is overlooked for not being included in the Anglo-Saxon canon, but I think his work is one of the most alive and meaningful of all philosophy. It does have a message for people living at the beginning of the 21 century, and it would be worthwhile to read or re-read his, by the way, extremely clear and sraightforward voice. Ortega is not a Nietzsche musing upon disordered dreams of supermen (although he elaborates on this very philosopher). His is a well-thought, systematic and clear view of the world, and that makes it a very readable work.	2001-01-29
2123311:US	49263512	RIP1K9XXEG6T9	0883554690	494549211	A Russian Gentleman (Classics of Russian Literature Series) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Remembrance of things past	Aksakov's book belongs in the rich tradition of memoirs. It is the kind of book in which the author tries to &quot;recover&quot; those days of learning and growing up, which made us be what we are. Sincerity and honesty are crucial to accomplish the task, and in this book, Aksakov gets the upper hand. The style is dry, but not boring; the images are beautiful, both in moments of joy and  of sorrow. Inevitably, Aksakov's voice is nostalgic: he longs to be there once again, trodding the streets and rural roads he used to walk with people long gone. His style is practical and direct, and there is not an excess of ornamentation or digressions. Besides, it is an interesting glimpse into life in Russia during the Nineteenth century, full of memorable moments and images.	2001-01-29
2123359:US	49263512	RUULHXQP58V17	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Wisdom, courage and literary rigour	This book is the most likely of Hemingway's works to be loved in the future. Why? Because it is a classic. Why is it a classic? Because of two reasons, pertaining to content and style. In the content, the message is universal and eternal. In the style, the writing is self-contained but evocative and brilliant. Excess is entirely absent from Hemingway's craftmanship here.<br />Santiago is an old fisherman from Cuba, a lover of baseball and contact with the sea. His life has been rather sad, lonely and lacking in material well-being. But, and this is what makes the book unforgettable, he is a MAN. Not just a brawling macho, like Hemingway himself, but a MAN in the best sense of the word. Although nobody will be witness of his prowess, he accomplishes it nonetheless. He is not abjectly trying to become a celebrity, like many people nowadays. Fishing the marlin, and carrying it home against Fate incarnated in a school of sharks, is not a matter of spotlights, but of dignity, of true love for oneself instead of plain vanity. And so, dignity is the name of the game. He is not like Hemigway, who got utterly stressed at having to go on with his fake image and so gave up and killed himself. Santiago would never kill himself: he fights on. Dignity is deep inside of him, in his consciousness of what he is worth, even if he remains a lonely old man scratching survival day after day. This is then a great book because it pairs the relevance of the story with the excellence of the writing. One last note: Hemingway is not very much liked these days, and for good reasons. But at least he could write this. Not many of us have done so and I guess it proves he was an extermely complex man, and not just a macho type.	2001-01-29
2123437:US	49263512	R2YHQ1HUWUM4DS	019283407X	742669212	The Nicomachean Ethics (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Rigorous, clear and still relevant	Along with many other virtues, Aristotle has the characteristic of being extremely systematic and ordered in his exposition of subjects. It is believed that he, like Plato, wrote dialogues to illuminate his philosophy, and that those dialogues are lost and all we have is his notes for class. It is good we still keep so many notes, because of its said order and clarity. Of course, it is not an easy reading (although I wouldn't put him either among the obscure and dark philosophers). It is rigorous philosophy exposed without useless digressions.<br />Aristotle tells us that all extremes are bad. We have to find the &quot;golden middle&quot;. Then he proceeds to expose different sets of extremes and the virtuous middle of the road. Being mad with fury is bad, but being insensible to outrageous actions is also a measure of inhumanity and extreme weakness of character. And so with the other virtues and vices.<br />Aristotle's system is still relevant because of the simple fact that he treats features of the human soul that are universal, regardless of time and place. His theories do not come from Divine revelation or from any mystical source. They come from common sense, and an acute observation of the humankind. Aristotle tells us that we must moderate our primal impulses and instincts, and live by the rule of reason and reasonability. No wonder Aristotle is the source of rigorous, systematic and realist Western philosophy, as opposed to the more literary, poetic and idealist school that comes from Plato, Aristotle's mentor. His is an almost scientific approach, certainly not &quot;entertainment&quot; or Tarot philosophy. It needs no recommendation; it has proved to be a universal work of the mind, one that will stay extant through the ages, as it has already been. Anyone interested in serious philosophy reads this at some point, hopefully an early one. It is of great help when trying to elucidate what is good and what is bad; when trying to figure out if there is a light to guide our behavior and attitude towards the world and our fellow humans. Follow the golden middle and you will eventually find a sense to everyday life, if not to the more torturing reflections on Being. For this last task, read the rest of Aristotle's work, especially the Metaphysics (which have absolutely nothing to do with what cheap deceivers know these days as metaphysics). This is rigorous philosophy, not courses on &quot;excellence&quot; and self-promotion.ght to guide our behavior and attitude towards the world and our fellow humans. Follow the golden middle and you will eventually find a sense to everyday life, if not to the more torturing reflections on Being. For this last task, read the rest of Aristotle's work, especially the Metaphysics (which have absolutely nothing to do with what cheap deceivers know these days as metaphysics). This is rigorous philosophy, not courses on &quot;excellence&quot; and self-promotion.	2001-01-29
2125491:US	49263512	R2VGTLLETXH4AA	0192837222	758396021	Carmen and Other Stories (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Gitanos and Spanish folklore	Am I at the right site? I am looking for Merime's story, not for Bizet's opera. Why is every review referring to a CD package, if I'm in the &quot;books&quot; store of Amazon? I don't know, but here's the review:<br />The narrator, a French archaeologist, is travelling through Andalucia, in Southern Spain, when he meets Jose Navarro, a famous bandit and smuggler. Two days later, he meets a beautiful gitana, named Carmen. In her house he finds Jose again. After that, he notices his watch has been stolen, but investigates nothing. Weeks later, he meets Jose again, just as he's about to be executed for his crimes. There, Jose tells the story of his love for Carmen, who happens to have stolen the watch, and how, for that love, he transformed from soldier to bandit. It is a story of Spanish passion, betrayal and lust, full of the romantic flavor of that corner of the world. Merime is a good storyteller, and you can feel the heat and dust, the powerful sun burning the brains of these passionate people. No wonder it inspired one of the best operas of all time.	2001-01-26
2125637:US	49263512	R2078VTPHJ32HE	1564595900	915992017	Last Days of Pompeii	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Get  yourself lost in this magical  world	This is a romantic historical novel, with a convoluted and exciting romantic story of passion, hate, revenge, and adventure. So what? There are many books like that, most of them pretty cheap and predictable. The trick, of course, is the writing. Bulwer Lytton, an early Victorian character with his own peculiarities (he was very interested in the mystical cults of Rome) is an extraordinary storyteller. The plot, as I said, is long to summaryze, but it concerns Glauco, a Greek stud who is beloved by almost every woman in the story; Ione, the Naples girl he loves; Nadia, a blind slave who is -of course- in love with Glauco, and the excellently portrayed Arbaces, a priest of the cult of Isis, the Egyptian goddess. Two other interesting characters are Julia, a rich and mean heiress who is, alas, in love with Glauco, and Salustio, a dissipated and drunken Roman. <br />The plot revolves around the constant intrigues of the characters, which include magic love-potions, betrayals and heroism. But at the back of the action, there is a volcano about to explode and leave this town covered by tons of dust and volcanic rock. The characters are planning their lives and lusting for passion, without knowing that they have no future. Like some of us, maybe.<br />Summing up, this novel is great entertainment, intelligent fun. The best, in my opinion, is the re-creation of a lost world, a city full of color and passion, living in full while Destiny works its own way.	2001-01-26
2125688:US	49263512	R3BJQNTTQROTEJ	091868045X	217910033	Alfred De Vigny's Chatterton	Books	3	2	11	N	N	An even more miserable Werther	Just like Goethe's &quot;Werther&quot;, this book also gave rise to a series of suicides committed by yooung and romantic folks. But instead of being a novel, it is a play in three acts. Chatterton is an 18-year old poet, who lives in the house of John Bell, a rich businessman. He is in love with Kitty Bell, but to no end, as well as sunk in debt. When he gets convinced that young poets in love can not be happy at all, he kills himself. Poor guy.	2001-01-26
2126088:US	49263512	R3O74WXIB0M3DV	0520011767	205742816	The Poem of the Cid (Cal 10)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The greatest Spanish epic	This book should belong to the universal, or at least Western, canon of all times. It is the foundation of Spanish literature and national myth. And, for those who think classics, especially medieval, are boring, surprise, it is not at all.<br />Rodrigo Daz de Vivar, the Cid, is a great warrior who, because of political intrigue, is dismissed by his master. He leaves and continues his fight against the Moors, who are the masters of most Spain since the 9th century. He conquers Valencia and starts forging his legend, fighting not only the Moors but other traitors to the cause of unfying Spain. One of the best and most famous scenes is the marriage of his two daughters, Urraca and Ximena. The book is written in truly epic style, full of adventures, battles, duels and, especially all the Medieval flavor that makes it unforgettable. In a good translation, the grandiosity of many sentences should be neatly perceived. It's hard to stop recommending this great work of art, a true belonger to the best classic literature the West has produced.	2001-01-26
2126238:US	49263512	RGQFG1QHCXM1O	8882090264	382761048	Vita di Vittorio Alfieri: Da Asti : scritta da esso : testo e concordanze (Italian Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fascinating life worth reading -if you can	I read this in Spanish, and I see it's impossible to find it in English, but in case there are old editions at libraries, I wish to recommend it. Vittorio Alfieri was an early promoter of Italian unification and independence, as well as a writer, a man of theater, and a traveller who wrote extensivley on his trips. He was also a politician and the lover of the supposedly beautiful Countess of Albany. <br />His life was turbulent and very interesting, including duels and love affairs, as well as political trouble and an endless fight for his country's autonomy. His autobiography is, then, extermely interesting, and also a picture of life in Italy in late 18 and early 19 centuries.	2001-01-26
2126291:US	49263512	R3FB420AZNUL00	0946626421	104881585	Little Angel (European Classics)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Worth reading them	As a good Russian, Andreiev's writing is about strange characters, sad and depressing situations, and mad fantasies of doom and despair. So, why would you read them? Because the man is a very good writer, espcially good at conveying dark moods and states of mind. The story I like the best is &quot;Dies Irae&quot;, a wonderful tale of Judgement Day to come. He also wrote a novel, &quot;Sachka Yegulev&quot; which is about a strange revolutionary fighting against the Czar. Andreiev accurately portraits the depressing state of mind of pre-Revolutionary Russia, which led to Bolshevism. Reading him, is to enter a world of despair and dreams of revenge. Not for the light-hearted.	2001-01-26
2126394:US	49263512	R2EU9TOAWWTGNU	2877142310	245319016	La Confession D'Un Enfant Du Siecle (World Classics) (French Edition)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I hope someone reads this review	I read this book in Spanish, and wanted to review it in English, but it seems that it either does not exist in this language, or simply that Amazon does not have it. Anyway, I want to review it.<br />I think this book should have become fashionable again in the 90's, since it is about a young man at the end of the Nineteenth century, a grunge-type, writing about the &quot;sickness of the century&quot;: disillusion with the world. De Musset, in the introduction, defines the &quot;sickness of the century&quot; as this: absence of moral values, and liberty perverted into libertinage. In this autobiographical work, Musset is Octavio, an 18-year old fellow who has an older mistress, an unstable and sometimes hysterical woman. Octavio, who leads a dissipate life, is disappointed when news break that his lover leads a dissipate life (with several other lovers). So, disappointed, he turns to prostitutes and alcohol.<br />When at last he comes to his senses, he abhores his lifestyle and retires to the countryside. He falls in love with a widow who is his neighbor. But when he declares his love, she flees. He follows her, and then start a turbulent love affair. By the end, he understands that the affair is doomed, and retires once again to the countryside, knowing that he suffers from the sickness of the century: emotional imbalance.<br />Absolutely adequate to this age, don't you think?	2001-01-26
2126591:US	49263512	R8ESYTMUJ5S44	0140442421	475141699	Elective Affinities (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	26	33	N	N	Who will you love?	This is a curious and interesting mix between novel and essay, written when Goethe was sixty (he lived much longer). Edward and Charlotte, aristocrat widowers, get married. They live in a beautiful castle surrounded by huge properties. Life there is easy and fun, since their main occupation is to remodel their estate and throw parties and entertainments.  Then the Captain, a friend of Edward's who is down on his luck but also a smart guy, is invited by Edward to come and live with them while he is back on track. Charlotte thinks it is a good opportunity to have come with them her niece, Otilia, a pretty, shy and nice girl. Both guests turn out to be useful and likable, and the four of them get along well. That is, until the elective affinities are set to work. Charlotte and the Captain, as well as Otilia and Edward, have affinities of personality, tastes and approach to life, and that draws them together: they fall in love. As the situation becomes untenable, the Captain finds a job and leaves. Edward retires to antoher house he owns. Then Charlotte gives birth to a child she conceived with Edward and, when he knows it, leaves for war. It turns out that the child resembles the Captain and Otilia, because Edward was thinking of Otilia and Charlotte was thinking of the Captain at the moment of conception (ha!). After some time, the Captain and Edward talk, and decide to speak to Charlotte, proposing divorce. I won't spoil the ending.<br />With this novel, Goethe tries to demonstrate that love is not a matter of conscious decision-making; that we can not control at all who we fall in love with, and that it is absurd to try to fight against it (note: it is not a defense of promiscuity, but an argumentation about an undeniable truth). This, then, is a novel with a strong point to make, and successfully so. Goethe is a good writer, a great one indeed, and this novel is important, especially when you put it in the context of the Romantic movement of the time. The story isinteresting, the more so because it is carefully designed to prove Goethe's point of view.	2001-01-26
2126593:US	49263512	RVM68UHI0O3LQ	0946626421	104881585	Little Angel (European Classics)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Worth reading them	As a good Russian, Andreiev's writing is about strange characters, sad and depressing situations, and mad fantasies of doom and despair. So, why would you read them? Because the man is a very good writer, espcially good at conveying dark moods and states of mind. The story I like the best is &quot;Dies Irae&quot;, a wonderful tale of Judgement Day to come. He also wrote a novel, &quot;Sachka Yegulev&quot; which is about a strange revolutionary fighting against the Czar. Andreiev accurately portraits the depressing state of mind of pre-Revolutionary Russia, which led to Bolshevism. Reading him, is to enter a world of despair and dreams of revenge. Not for the light-hearted.	2001-01-26
2126723:US	49263512	R1TR54694PEE35	2010048539	636897407	Le Roi des montagnes (La Galaxie) (French Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great adventure in splendid landscape	This is an adventure novel set in Nineteenth-Century Greece. Along with two British girls, a German student is kidnapped by a legendary bandit who gives the novel its title, &quot;The King of the Mountains&quot;. The German student falls in love with one of the English girls, but it turns out that their relationship is doomed. Two times they try to escape, but they are caught and he is tortured by the ruthless bandit and his fellows. They are freed after numerous and exotic adventures, and the end is not the typical &quot;happy end&quot;. Edmond About is a forgotten French writer, with several recommendable books. This is pure entertainment, without any philosophical implications, but it would be worth the reedition of his books. Unlikely as it is, I do recommend that, if you come across one of his books, take the time to indulge yourself in a funny and exotic time reading his novels, which include fantastic (from &quot;fantasy&quot;) literature and even some proto-science fiction.	2001-01-25
2126801:US	49263512	R3KYPB08E65765	0838754368	775657313	Ten Tales	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good storytelling	They may not be fashionable nowadays, but the short stories of Leopoldo Alas aka Clarn, are well worth being read. He tells simple but extremely humane stories of Northern Spain, mostly set in the countryside or in small villages. His style is direct, realistic, and it combines tenderness with subtle irony. The most famous, &quot;Goodbye, Cordera&quot; tells the sad story of two kids whose beloved cow is sent to the slaughterhouse. Good for a slow evening at home, you'll be worthily entertained and get a glimpse of life in rural Northern Spain a hundred years ago.	2001-01-25
2127075:US	49263512	R13ISRTGCZWASD	0395109086	73040380	Constantinople: The Forgotten Empire.	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Certainly the forgotten empire	This work covers the history of the Byzantine Empire, from the foundation of Byzantium, in the Fifth Century AD, until its fall to the Ottoman Empire, in the Fifteenth Century. The relevance of the book is this: at school, we are taught history from a Eurocentric perspective. That's fine, since that is our main heritage. But there is a millenium-wide gap. They teach us the history of Greece and Rome, and then, after Rome's conquest by the Barbarians, we skim through the Middle Ages, briefly and superficially. Then we arrive at the Renaissance and proceed to modernity. The problem with this sequence is that we are never explained how the legacy of Greece and Rome resurfaces after a thousand years of Medieval times. And what we miss is precisely what Asimov fills in with his book. It happens that, for a thousand years, the Classical culture remained alive and kicking, even nurtured, in the Eastern Mediterranean. The axis of this world was Constantinople -or Byzantium-.  There, the Classical culture met the Oriental luxury and liveliness, and the history of this empire is just fascinating. Jews, Moslems, Orthodox Christianity and Greeks, preserved and developed philosophy, theology, art and literature, amidst constant political turbulence. The stories show the most brutal and ruthless, as well as the most enlightened and wise rulers, courtiers and intellectuals. It was a world full of color, sensuality, passion and dynamism, half familiar and half exotic for our Western mind. Asimov's storytelling is fast and entertaining, but accurate. If you read it, chances are you won't remember most of the names and places, but you will get a general sense of what went on in this crucial corner of the world for a thousand years, and, best of all, you'll remain with a pleasant aftertaste. Strongly recommended both for entertaining and enlightening reasons, it is a real pity that this book is out of print and, more generally, that we are not taught the deeds of this great world.	2001-01-25
2127122:US	49263512	R30TF5DZ7NNZZ1	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	28	31	N	N	People still do it, perhaps without the style	OK, young fool falls in love with married girl. Becomes friend of the couple. Husband starts to get annoyed. Hero declares his love and then commits suicide. You can read that in the paper once in a while. So, why is this a great novel and a landmark of Romantic literature? Because it has a lot to make us think.  A famous fact related to this book is that, short after it was published, a series of suicides took place in Europe, mostly by young guys in the same situation as Werther. That should set clear the influence and strenght of the novel. It is extremely well written; the scenery is gorgeous -rural, upper class Germany in the Eighteenth century. The book is written as a secret diary addressed to a trusted friend, and to any readers, young or old, it will strike a chord in their hearts. Tell me, who is there that never experienced dreams of punishing that insensible beloved from school by committing suicide and then have her cry and repent at the funeral? But most of us are still here, with her or, most likely, with someone else or alone. We survived love's infatuation; Werther did not, and he is now a prototype of unlimited love (or lack of maturity, depending  on your point of view). I prefer to see it as a great story written, at an early stage, by one of the greatest geniuses of all time. &quot;Werther&quot;	2001-01-25
2127353:US	49263512	R1IXVI1RVTNP1N	8441000514	477555707	Don Juan Tenorio	Books	4	20	21	N	N	The definitive elaboration on an ancient legend	This is the most famous depiction of the ancient legend of Don Juan, the unrepentant and bold sinner from Spain. A masterwork of Romanticism, &quot;Don Juan&quot; tells the story of Juan Tenorio, a worldly man whose only interest in life is to seduce as many women as he can. He makes a bet with his friend Luis Meja, to see who is more fortunate with women. Don Juan wins, but his father writes him off from his testament. After that, Don Juan rapes Luis' fiance. All this gives him, of course, a bad reputation, so the father of his beloved Ines forbids him to marry her. Events unfold then at a rapid pace, amidst duels, murders, illegitimate seductions and tragedy, including the apparition of ghosts. But more than just a cloak-and-dagger play, this work is a fascinating elaboration on the central myths of sin and repentance; of trespassing and divine forgiving; of the redeeming possibilities of true love, as distinguished from the sins of the flesh which lead to hell. In the Spanish world, it is the play that is staged every year, by the beginning of November when Day of the Dead is celebrated. It is a sum-up of the Romantic myth and, as all classical works, it admits different interpretations, from the literal to the philosophical. And it's a lot of fun too.	2001-01-25
2128853:US	49263512	RBFWBPWR5Z3X9	1557832307	4605142	Cyrano de Bergerac: by Edmund Rostand translated by Anthony Burgess	Books	4	13	13	N	N	You'll just love the characters	Cyrano -loosely based on the actual Savinien Cyrano de Bergerac, an early predecessor of science fiction- is a swordsman for the French King Louis XIII. He is also a man with an extraordinary gift for poetry and versification, as well as the owner of an extremely large nose. He is deeply in love with his cousin Roxanne, but she happens to love Cyrano's friend and colleague, Christian. So, being a good fellow and having a quixotic nature, Cyrano accepts to speak of love to Roxanne, impersonating Christian. Under her window, in the dark, Cyrano recites love poems so well crafted, that Roxanne falls even more in love with Christian, who is the supposed lover. After that, both men leave to fight at war. Roxanne shows up at the siege of Arras, to bring food to the soldiers. There, for reasons I won't spoil here, their love affair comes to an abrupt end, leaving their relationship unfulfilled. What comes next shows the true heroic nature of Cyrano, his strength of character, and his loyalty to his friend, but also to his eternal love for Roxanne. This play, which has originated at least a couple of good movies and several tv interpretations, is a homage to the Romantic spirit so rare in our greedy and selfish times. It is full of beautiful images and scenes, and Rostand's writing is perfect for the task. Read it first, and if you haven't seen the movies, watch them. Cyrano is a grand character that will remain as an epytome of chivalry, loyalty, and emotional strength. Not to forget.	2001-01-24
2128860:US	49263512	R11MH0DKHR6MY4	1558586113	328437470	Canterville Ghost, The	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Sympathy for the phantom	This &quot;updated-gothic&quot; tale is really a wonder. A typical American family of late-XIXth century buys a manor in England, the propery of Lord Canterville. Turns out that an ancestor of this lord, who holds the same name, is a ghost still wandering around the big and old house. And he is terribly annoyed and disturbed by the irreverent behavior of the Americans who, in the first place, don't believe in ghosts. That is, until they discover him and make him the target of their irreverence. Every day, Washington, one of the children, erases a centuries-old blood stain from the floor of the library, and every night the phantom paints it again, increasingly in strange colors. He grows more and more disheartened, until Virginia, the nice daughter of the family, comes along... Wilde's is a funny tale, a funny comparison between Americans and British, a compassionate look at ghosts, and an unforgettable story with the characteristic wit and smartness of a fine craftsman of literature.	2001-01-24
2128894:US	49263512	R26WPPXDOPKU3I	0140185356	851439417	Monsignor Quixote (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Don Quixote and Sancho will live on	A small-town priest (Toboso, where Don Quixote's beloved comes from) meets an Italian bishop, who promotes him to the degree of Monsignor. Before assuming his new responsibilities, he and the Marxist ex-mayor of Toboso, &quot;Sancho&quot; decide to take the car and travel around Spain. As they go along, they have several adventures and discuss about their respective views on religion and life.  Although it is not a pretentious or &quot;profound&quot; novel, it touches the subjects of tolerance and, above all, the possibility of people being friends even if they have disagreements on their basic views of the world and the humankind. Or, if not friends, at least people can coexist peacefully. It really surprised me how much this book reminds me of another fine literary work -in my view, superior to this one- which constantly and funnily elaborates on this same subject: &quot;The world of Don Camillo&quot;, by Giovanni Guareschi. This one is about a small village in post-war Italy, where Don Camillo, the local priest, and Pepone, the communist mayor, interact through the years. I have reviewed it for Amazon.com, and I think the basic conclusion if similar to that of Monsignor Quixote. Summarizing, this novel by Graham Greene is really good, not so much for the &quot;literature&quot; it has, but for the meaning and significance of its subject. It is a pity that few people read it. Moreover, it is yet another proof that Cervantes' masterpiece is and will remain alive, with good writers going over and over to its central characters, structure and theme.	2001-01-24
2129113:US	49263512	R3TKXQMWDBYD4C	0802136346	166854560	Being There	Books	4	4	6	N	N	We are surrounded, perhaps governed, by Chances	Governed, in the widest sense. This brilliant satire is right on the money as it portraits the culture we live in: real thought is neglected; superficial perception is all.  I won't summarize the plot, for other reviewers have done it well. I will insist in something very sad, but perhaps unevitable: Kosinski's message was enjoyed, but not really listened to. We still elect Chances; we still believe what they say on TV; we still track down their every step (how they went shopping; who they married; what liposuctions they got). The real thinkers are almost abandoned, their work covered by dust in libraries and museums. And the saddest thing, in the book, is that all of it is not Chance's guilt: he just talks about what he knows: the garden and TV, and it is the Confederacy of Dunces that surrounds him who elevate him to a media icon and presidential adviser. The clarity of the message should be growing fastly, since the society portrayed in the book is getting more and more real. I wonder if it is too late to get it: the media society is taking away from us the time to think and reflect, and so find solutions to our problems. The tragedy is that every time a thinker becomes a public figure, and so gets the opportunity to act, the system eats them and transform them into &quot;celebrities&quot;: ....	2001-01-24
2140674:US	49263512	R1UWOQ5QY8YG95	0452275040	611839930	Dear Theo: The Autobiography of Vincent Van Gogh	Books	3	23	33	N	N	Interesting and revealing	Vincent Van Gogh was a great painter, but not a writer. So these letters are of interest in terms of history and painting. The life of Van Gogh is better exposed here than it would have been in a &quot;real&quot; autobiography, because Theo, his younger brother, was the only real friend Vincent ever had. He was his supporter, admirer and listener, and in fact Vincent had an emotional dependence on his brother. People interested in the process of artistic creation and creativity will find this book of enormous value and interest, since Van Gogh speaks a lot about that process in himself, one of the greatest painters of all time.  But it is true, as one reviewer said, that these letters include, each and every one, eternal whining and begging from Vincent to his brother. He was, of course, always out of money and, as a genius really disconnected from the common world, unable to make a living by conventional activities. So he depended almost entirely on Theo. I would like to insist in that, although by no means a literary accomplishment, these letters are worth reading, since they expose naked the soul of a great artist and an extremely sensitive man, certainly a tortured and twisted soul.	2001-01-14
2140866:US	49263512	RK2RHF94OP7G9	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A multidimensional exercise in superb writing	Classics are classics because they have this characteristic: they say many different things to many different people throughout time. Otherwise, they become dated and then forgotten (although there are works of art unjustly -wrongly- forgotten). &quot;Madame Bovary&quot; can be read from different perspectives (i.e. it might be worth reading it more than once). For other reviewers, like Gabrielle Renoir, it is &quot;a romantic novel about the dangers of reading romantic novels&quot;, which is an original and witty remark.  But it is also, as other reviewers have noted, a pure exercise in style. The legend around this novel includes the fact that Flaubert was bored with the story and the main character, certainly an unlikable woman. Supposedly, Flaubert tried to write a novel &quot;about absolutely nothing&quot;, so that style and wording would be all in the book.  It is these things and many more: a novel about life in the province; a novel about the delusions of a bored small-town housekeeper; a novel about infidelity; a novel about nothing but pure grammar; and a novel about human nature. The plot is well known, so I won't summarize it. Reviewers who read French insist in saying that it should be read in the original. I'm looking forward to do it, as my French advances. Anyway, there is no way to stop recommending this masterpiece. It is not boring at all, although the story and the characters might be. That is genius.	2001-01-14
2141312:US	49263512	R17R42K0G8XAPJ	8401303613	713887824	La iguana (Novelistas del dia) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A strange and tough story	This is the story of an extraordinarily ugly and repulsive man, who is rejected by everybody. He turns into an excellent whale-hunter but after some time, tired of being humiliated and mistreated because of his ugliness and clumsiness, he goes to a deserted island, to live there by himself. After some sailors burn and destroy his crops, he turns even more resented and violent. Subsequent sailors, who ocasionally stop in the island to get fresh water, are terribly treated by La Iguana, as he turns them into his slaves. Then, he captures a woman, who he keeps chained to a bed, as his &quot;lover&quot;. Then, some of the sailors rebel against him, and his adventures continue (I won't spoil the end). Obviously, this is not a nice story, but it talks about the rejection of humans against those born with disabilities, especially those more repulsive, like extreme ugliness (deformity). The protagonist is a smart and strong-willed man, and not an evil one. But the violence he receives during his life turns him into an also violent and revengeful man. Kind of a &quot;natural born&quot; Frankenstein.  The novel is well written and it's worth a reading.	2001-01-14
2146774:US	49263512	R1MEB6CFOEAG6E	0192818376	449623847	Dead Souls: A Poem (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Social criticism with a great sense of humor	The plot is simple: Pavel Chichikov arrives to a provincial capital of Russia, impresses everyone with his social skills, gets adopted by the &quot;high society&quot; of the town, and then sets out to business: trying to persuade landowners (who are also lifeowners) to give or sell to him all the peasants who have died since the last census. These people, although dead, still generate taxes for the owner, so in principle it is convenient for them. But, of course, everyone asks themselves: &quot;Why would anyone want to buy dead people who cause taxes?&quot;. I won't spoil the plot by giving the answer. The important thing is that Gogol uses this plot to paint an exhilarating (but in fact sad) portrait of the Russian society of his time, and of human nature in any time and place, which gives this novel its status as a classic work of art. Corruption, stupidity, naivet, extreme individualism instead of a spirit of community, and other social vices, present in any society, are represented here by the very funny characters created by the author. Every landowner is a particular form of strange person, procuring Chichikov with crazy adventures. Gogol's writing intersperses the narrative with social reflection and thoughts on human nature, never boring or pretentious, but always funny and satirical. In fact, Gogol's irony and cynicism are probably the most valuable assets of this novel. It belongs to that literary family of books which portray heroes or anti-heores, wandering around, pursuing a fixed, idealized goal. Sometimes this goal is foolish but noble (like Don Quixote), sometimes it is narrow or despicable. These characters illustrate the virtues and vices of us humans, and that makes them live through the centuries. &quot;Dead souls&quot; is undoubtedly a dignifed member of that family, a book which will make you laugh, think and laugh again. By the way, another valuable thing is the way in which Gogol depicts the Russian countryside.	2001-01-09
2151139:US	49263512	R1GS82XDJXDDH5	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A chilling but accurate fable	It seems like, at some point before writing this novel, Golding had asked himself: &quot;How much has the human race changed, morally speaking, since the prehistoric times?&quot; &quot;What would happen if a bunch of children, from an advanced society, got stranded on a deserted island and had to reproduce society?&quot;. So, after a plane crash, only children survive in a remote island. As they struggle to survive, we are witnesses to the undoing of civilization, once some of them, especially Jack, realize that the institutions, strictures and constraints of society are gone. And what we read is certainly frightening: deep inside, we still are savage creatures, bent on getting power and domination over the rest of us. Only Ralph and Piggy keep their will to bring about cooperation and collaboration, as the indispensable way to survival. But the rest won't listen: what they want is to swim and hunt, to play and to fight. The voices of civilization and peace will not only be ignored: they will be denounced and punished. Savagery will triumph over peacefulness. That society will have to start all over again, trodding the path from utmost savagery to civilization. This is not a political or a sociological novel, it is a fable. But something I learned or reinforced from reading it, is that the central beliefs and institutions of our civilization are not to be taken for granted. They need to be constantly nurtured, reinforced and reformed. For our basic instincts are still there, and exactly the way they were thousands of years ago. So, this novel is thrilling, fun to read, and interesting to think about.	2001-01-05
2152209:US	49263512	R2TYKSWTK9UMVM	0521443172	428237087	A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A breathtaking overview of the most important war	Gerhard Weinberg has written a magnum opus on this, the most important and devastating event of history, at least of modern history. It is not an exaggeration to say that Weinberg has summed up practically all the relevant literature -at least the academic one- written on WWII. From the digestion of this enormous quantity of material, the author has produced a truly global history of the war. Weinberg emphasizes, at all times and above all, the extremely complex and intricate interrelationships of all the theaters of war; the way in which every nation and every leader had to have in mind, all the time and simultaneously, the different aspects of war. To us simple mortals, the task looks overwhelming: from internal politics, to weapon production, to logistics, to casualties, to inter-allied relationships, etc., managing the war seems to me to have been the most complex task that any group of human beings has ever faced. Of course, Weinberg's brush is wide: he is trying to give the reader a sense of the globality of the war itself, sterssing put the high politics and high diplomacy that led every effort.. And the way he does it is superb. Yes, it is a long reading, but it is never tiresome or hard. The author uses a very straightforward language, a narrative tone and even a sense of humor, by the way, a satirical, dry and subtle humor. There are no ideological theories here, no simple justification of any actions, no sentimentality: there are facts. Whenever a situation is obscure or speculative, the author lets you know. I would say more: without a novelistic language, the pace of the narrative makes you think of a long novel on a continuous climax: terrible and astonishing things are happening all the time at all places; these events influence one another, changing the situation in every theater on a continuous basis. You really get to think of this war, as I said, as the ultimate chess game in history. Each participant is carefully analyzed, some of the most important leaders receive acute and even unforgiving evaluations (e.g. Montgomery and MacArthur). Every chapter of the war, every theater, receives its measure of importance. Well-rounded, well written, clear and to the point, this book is indispensable for anybody trying to understand this most complex of human deeds. I had read a lot about WWII before, both for pure personal interest, and as assigned reading during my B.A. and M.A. studies, but this book set many things straight, especially a cronological and spatial understanding of how the war started, developed and ended. The final chapter is an excellent conclusion. It states the main consequences of the war, with a surprisingly optimistic assessment of what the war left for future generations, once the personal and direct suffering and cruel bitterness of the memories assumes its place in history proper.  One last thing: all of us who were born after the war, and especially all of us who thank God had never had to go to war, should read this, lest some other fools in the future try to achieve as stupid a human plan as Hitler's (I thoroughly enjoyed the elegant and subtle, but devastating way in which the author emphasizes the folly of this man as the main single cause of the war. let's never forget that).	2001-01-05
2178125:US	49263512	RW8Y605ZE1S99	8420441694	880339864	La Fiesta del Chivo (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not local, but a universal novel	I'm writing this review in English because I hope it will be translated soon to many languages; in Spanish it is already a success, a well-deserved one.  This story is not only of concern for people from, or related to, the Dominican Republic: it is great literature. And great literature usually takes as its subject the story of one particular place and some particular people, to illustrate us about the depths of the human soul, those basic instincts and characteristics that we all share as human beings. Other reviewers have correctly emphasized the wonderful structure and time-managing of the book, a feature common to Vargas Llosa's literature. Some others have emphasized the historical and social importance of it. And this is what makes it a very good novel. MVLL paints a penetrating portrait of the Trujillo dictatorship. Trujillo was, like all other dictators, a megalomaniac who at times seems sincere about his &quot;sacrifice&quot; for the people. He repeatedly states, throughout the novel, that he has had to sacrifice all just for the sake of hispeople,...  people who are unable to govern themselves (and so, someone has to do it for them). The reality is different: Trujillo is NOT a statesman, but the owner of all the Dominicans, at home or abroad. He owns the state enterprises just as he may own any woman at any time (and she has to be grateful for the rape). Three stories go back and forth in time: Trujillo's last day; the story of Urania Cabral, the daughter of a top-level politician during the dictatorship and who is coming back to Dominicana after 35 years in the US; and the stories of all the participants in the plot to kill Trujillo, stories which illustrate the true face of the regime. This is not literature which reminds us of the joys of life, but of hell on Earth and how it can be brought about by common people. This is literature about the devil in us and about how one madman can control even the feelings and thoughts of many (but not all) people.What struck me most about the book is the way Trujillo manipulates and destroys the self-esteem of everybody, those who admire him and those who hate him. One thinks of the kind of public servant Agustn Cabral could have been in a relatively decent regime. It seems that much of the book is accurately based on real facts and data, and that makes the story all the more chilling. The portrait of Trujillo is superb, as well as Balaguer's character and personality. As some other reviewer stated, once the three stories start to approach their climaxes, you simply can't stop reading and the pace gets really fast, crudely depicting really horrible scenes of torture and degradation. But you will see: in the end, the big Goat (Chivo) is punished by the Devil himself, in a pitiless way (and it's NOT the killing).	2000-12-13
2197696:US	49263512	R1VWHHCE54WXUS	0192835351	448821419	Tom Brown's Schooldays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	41	44	N	N	A rare jewel	This book is about the life and coming of age of a young wealthy English boy, who goes to school at Rugby. Throughout the novel, we are witnesses to the growing up of Tom and his friends. Tom is not a model boy, but rough, virile and self-confident, as is his friend East, a smart and audacious guy. The story is funny and entertaining, and is also illustrative about life in the English boarding schools (for affluent people) in the XIX century.  It is also a bildungsroman, that is, the story of the education and maturation of a young person. Although the story contains carefully hidden, and sometimes easily identifiable, morals, it is not a long lecture. It is easy to read and understand, and I consider it highly recommendable.	2000-11-26
2197810:US	49263512	RKR84RQTHRUDV	0192838431	656665385	Twenty Years After (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sometimes, second parts are better	If &quot;The three musketeers&quot; is a magnificent novel, &quot;Twenty years after&quot; is a remarkable continuation. The adventures and intrigues are just as exciting, but this novel has a more strongly epic side. Our friends are now in their forties, and have not seen each other frequently at all.  Athos is in his country estate, trying to give an education to his beloved son, Raoul. Porthos is an important landowner, thanks to a profitable marriage, and lives for hunting, eating and drinking.<br />Aramis is supposed to be a churchman, one with a lot of involvement in dark political intrigues. And D'Artagnan, well, he's an official in the Musketeers, a loyal and dedicated servant of Queen Anne and his young son, Louis XIV. So two of the musketeers are completely retired, and the other two are somehow involved in politics. And difficult politics it is, for England and France are in turmoil: in Britain, Oliver Cromwell has launched the &quot;Glorious Revolution&quot;, intent on deposing king Charles I. In France, the &quot;Fronde&quot; movement is fighting against Cardinal Mazarin, a Machiavellian succesor of Richelieu. Dumas puts Mazarin in a much lower level than his predecessor, as a villain. Richelieu alaways commanded respect and fear; Mazarin is a despicable and avaricious man, a disloyal servant. So, D'Artagnan is in charge of a very special secret mission. For that, he tries to recruit his three friends, but he is only successful with Porthos. The other two refurse for unexplained reasons. But when they travel to England, they find Athos and Aramis are fighting on the other side. After many adventures, they get reunited on the same side: the English royalists. I'm not going to spoil the rest. I'll just add that the other subplot is also amazing: the fight against Milady's wretched and diabolical son, Mordaunt. This novel is full of memorable scenes, characters and situations. And it is not just adventures: Dumas is really good at creating characters withfull personalities, with virtues and vices. Every musketeer is a great example of this. And the book contains subtle and frequently ironic reflections on human nature, love, politics and, above all, friendship.	2000-11-26
2197812:US	49263512	R2BBDJW72M4NO7	8429446265	824473617	Rimas y Leyendas (Clasicos Esenciales Santillana) (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Lo mejor y lo peor del romanticismo	Cualquiera que lea las rimas de B&eacute;cquer en la adolescencia temprana, en el momento de los primeros enamoramientos, quedar&aacute; fascinado por la sinton&iacute;a de sus sentimientos con los versos. En realidad, su calidad es dispareja (aunque ello no impide recomendar su lectura). Los que mejor recuerdo son &quot;Volver&aacute;n las oscuras golondrinas&quot; y &quot;Qu&eacute; solos se quedan los muertos&quot;. Algunos rayan en la cursiler&iacute;a m&aacute;s simplona, pero otros tienen un patetismo atractivo, sobre todo porque B&eacute;cquer tiene la cualidad de proyectar una atm&oacute;sfera muy provinciana, muy sevillana, que les da un aura de misterio. Las leyendas, en cambio, son una joya del romanticismo: recuperan de manera convincente la obscuridad y la cercan&iacute;a con lo sobrenatural, que caracterizan el apego del romanticismo por la Edad Media. Son , desde luego, sumamente sentimentales, pero la creaci&oacute;n de ambientes rayanos en ell delirio es muy buena. El trabajo de B&eacute;cquer vale la pena por su representatividad y por la recuperaci&oacute;n del sabor de las antiguas leyendas espa&ntilde;olas.	2000-11-26
2198364:US	49263512	R9SLQUTPHQ3WU	0140367470	839463326	The Three Musketeers (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wouldn't you like to be there?	I bet everyone who has read this book has lamented not having been born in France, in the 17th century. The plot is well known: a young man from southwestern France, of rather humble origin, travels to Paris, to try to get admitted at the Musketeers corps, the personal guard of king Louis XIII. He achieves his aim partially, as he is accepted by another corps, as a first step towards becoming a Musketeer.  D'Artagnan, which is his name, is a courageous, provincial, and impulsive man, with a knack for getting in trouble with powerful and aggressive people. D'Artagnan becomes close friend of three musketeers, each one having a very specific (and superbly created by Dumas) personality. Athos is of noble origin, a very silent and grave man, with an intriguing, mysteryous and tragic past. Porthos is a flamboyant character, an ambitious, pompous, talkative and opinionated guy who likes to party and to womanize, although he's always out of money. Aramis is a strange and, I would say, rather unlikable guy, of refined manners and enigmatic past. Even the valets of each musketeer have a full personality, and they play important and funny roles in all the adventures. These are simply extraordinary, magnificently written. They happen against the background of historical events, and play joyfully with History. The action takes place in 17th century France. Louis XIII was not a very able statesman, he was not a bad person, but he was a frivolous and somehow irresponsible man, not very interested in politics or public affairs. So he has a prime minister, one of the most fascinating historical characters of all time: Armand Duplessis, Cardinal Richelieu. He was, in reality, one of the most important protagonists of the creation of the Nation-state, just at the time where the novel takes place. Richelieu is a first-rate enemy for our heroes. He is an extremely intelligent, astute, and clever person. In this novel he plays bad guy, because the musketeers are always on the other sideof problems. But they respect him a lot, knowing he is a formidable mind, without the least trace of cowardice or foolishness. Another important character is Queen Anne of Austria, a beautiful -and unfaithful- woman, who has a secret romance with the English Duke of Buckingham, an enemy of her husband. Amid the perpetual intrigues, back-stabbing, bribes, seductions and general decadence of the Court, the musketeers have incredible and perfectly-written adventures. Adventure pure. The cast of characters is long and fascinating. One important thing other reviewers have correctly noted is that the reader really comes to identify with the characters, and to feel something for them, either friendship or distaste. It is a real classic of literature, even if it is relegated to the &quot;books for children&quot; shelf. It is not jus that. In fact, I have read it several times and I think I have enjoyed it even more at an older age, beacuse now I have a much better knowledge and understanding of the historical aspects of it. But you don't really need that to enojy this novel, since it is one of the quickiest and easiest reading. It's simply fantastic.	2000-11-26
2198430:US	49263512	R1U8LTKTZTZLNQ	9999868010	142338357	I Judas	Books	4	51	57	N	N	Good idea.	The idea of telling the world most famous story from the point of view of the most hated character in history is brave and good. Judas, the man Dante put in the last and most hideous circle of hell -that destined for the worst traitors- is here just a man, but not a mediocre man. By the time when Jesus was already preaching, Israel was in political turmoil (hasn't it always been?). Several political factions were conspiring against Roman rule. Of them, the zealots were one of the most radical.<br />Judas, apparently, was a member of this group and, simplifying Caldwell's plot, seems to have sincerely taken Jesus as the future King of Israel. This he would accomplish by political and revolutionary action. As Jesus refuses to take real action to depose the Romans, Judas gets disappointed and finally betrays the man he thought would lead them to victory, but instead kept on saying strange things, uncomprehensible for a man of action like Judas. I think no one can take away from Caldwell (a writer I don't really like) the merit of having written the story from Judas's point of view, in a reasonable and plausible plot. Just for that, it is worth reading it.	2000-11-26
2198506:US	49263512	R3E2AZ8H63GH95	0899662293	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Splendid scenery and mood	This great novel is very different from the short stories. Here, Holmes and Watson face a mystery in touch with supernatural forces, coming from an old legend about the Baskerville family. And the supernatural is only natural in that environment: the moor. A low land with marshes, dark and wild. Also here, Watson is portrayed as a brave man, intelligent and daring. They work on the investigation separately for a good part of the book, until, of course, they get the bad guy and uncover the motives and methods of the criminal. The best of this book is not so much the plot -which is very good- but the mood, the ambience in which the whole tale unfolds is just great. I will stop here because this is the kind of book one should not spoil by revealing parts of the plot. Just read it.	2000-11-26
2198992:US	49263512	R185JCM3GU1EDA	0152023984	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A minimalist masterpiece	This book is a small jewel of this century's literature. It is so atypical, so abstract at times. The plot is irrelevant, what matters are the apparently simple but very deep mini-lessons in the philosophy of life. I would say, the wise, simple and smart philosophy of life.  It is rather sad in some parts, but Saint-Exupery's writing retains control all the time, keeping a strict and careful balance between tenderness and irony. The story is simple: a pilot is forced to land in the middle of the Sahara, as his plane has a malfunction. As the guy is desperately trying to fix it, anguished at the possibility of not being able to do it and then be lost in the desert, a small prince comes along. A prince? Just like that, a European prince who then tells the story of his life, of his wanderings in planet after planet. You are then in the presence of one exotic piece of the &quot;literature of the absurd&quot;. And the magic works out, for no reader ever forgets the character and the lessons he teaches without being conscious of it.	2000-11-25
2199154:US	49263512	R2G2C7ZWQ2QCY4	0448060191	592774530	Little Women (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A good classic for children	I read this book when I was a young boy, as well as the other three books of the series. It looked to me then that it was a girlie book, but I still enjoyed it very much. I think I read it twice. Although the story is very sentimental and it has many morals, it is an extraordinary portrait of life in Northeast US during and after the Civil War. It was still very much a protestant, puritanical society, starting to modernize but still very provincial.  The characters are well-rounded, alive and real, and the stories are amusing. It has no specific plot. It is the story of the March family, and it starts when the father is away, fighting on the North's side. The Marches are a respectable and educated family, but they're not wealthy, so the book depicts the troubles and efforts of the four girls, their little successes and disappointments. If you like the first part, you will also like the other three novels, although this is the best.	2000-11-25
2209712:US	49263512	R234VAPAGNUIG6	0946626189	409824159	The Late Mattia Pascal (new edition)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A funny, deep and astonishing story	This novel is about the identity of the individual, and the possibilities and limits of self-reinvention. By failing to transform himself into someone else, Mattia Pascal remains the same person, but radically changed from his experience. Oh, but it's not so complicated.  Mattia Pascal is a good-for nothing- junior who, along with his also-spoiled brother, lose the fortune inherited from their father. Besides losing his fortune, Mattia is forced to make a disastrous marriage. And then, along comes a big and most unexpected chance to run away and become someone else. I won't spoil anything. Just read it and you will find an amazing story. Pirandello's writing is easy. The introduction to the real knot of the story is a little long, but it is absolutely necessary to situate the plot, and moreover, it is very funny. Pirandello's style fluctuates between irreverent and outrageous irony, and melancholic reflections on fate, identity and man's place in the world. Far from being boring, it has extremely funny moments of dark humor (check his confrontations with his mother-in-law). So, it is an extremely recommendable book, because it is intelligent humor with a reflection on life. If you really get to love the story, as I did, you'll end up asking to yourself: &quot;Who the hell am I?&quot;.	2000-11-15
2211435:US	49263512	R1GQKYR0B9H9CS	0226738019	715441409	Wilhelm Tell (German Literary Classics in Translation)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	An immortal tale about freedom	In this book, Schiller takes the old legend of Wilhelm Tell and gives it the shape and structure of a novel. It is a wonderful tale about Tell, a mountain man who is very angry at the despotic and cruel ways in which Gessler, the representative of the hated Austrians, treats the peaceful Swiss people. Tell refuses to give in to Gessler's mischievous way, suffers a lot (remember that he has to shoot an arrow to an apple standing over his son's head) and eventually leads his people in a revolt against the Austrians. If this is perhaps not accurate history, it is the stuff national prides are made of. One thing to pay attention to is the marvelous scenery, the very old towns with their downtown parks, the mountainous Swiss Alps surrounding the small cities, and helping Wilhelm Tell escape Gessler's guardsmen. Schiller, as one of the leaders of the Romantic movement, creates a great story out of an old legend, giving shape to one of the most famous stories, justifiedly so.	2000-11-14
2228475:US	49263512	R1AF8H67P284P1	0895263092	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda (Gateway Movie Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Live a fascinating life	For that is the most precious gift literature has to give: the chance to live many different lives, completely distinct from our own rutines. Imagine that you go on vacation to a tiny country, and find out that the new king looks just like you. Then, hours before the coronation, he is kidnapped by the bad guys, and you have to substitute for him in the throne... and by the side of the queen, the lovely Flavia. But then the fight is just beginning. This is a wonderful book, the kind of simple and intriguing story that is the bottom-line of pure fiction. But, as with all good novels, you can find here, in an unpretentious way, glimpses into the soul of people.  The end of the story is a subtle drama, resolved in the best  and non-childish way: resorting to honor and nobility. Nobody who reads this novel can be disappointed.	2000-10-29
2228477:US	49263512	RXQ6YW5VQ85CB	0785912185	293032225	Les\Enfants du Capitaine Grant (2 Vol. Set)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lost for the English language?	This is a very good adventure book. Captain Grant is lost at sea, and nobody knows where. From a partial, damaged message, his children and friends try to figure out where he may be. This takes them first to South America, the remote parts of Argentina and Chile. They experience wild adventures, but can't find him. Ultimately, they go to Australia and New Zealand, adventure after adventure. Though not one the most famous classics by Verne, this is a very good book, interesting to read, and fun. It is a pity English-speaking youths can not enjoy it.	2000-10-29
2228683:US	49263512	R1567RRT6DV98X	0679776877	237601957	An Empire Wilderness: Travels into America's Future	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	What will North America be like?	After traveling and reporting in 70 countries, Kaplan comes back home and wonders, in light of his other trips, what will happen to the United States in the promising but difficult future ahead. This trip is a real challenge, for it is harder to talk about one's country than about other, foreign places. So Kaplan, a man of the East Coast, decides to go west, where the population is growing fastest, and social trends are newer and stranger. Starting and finishing among military people, what Kaplan finds in North America, from Mexico City to Vancouver, is the same trend he has found everywhere: the silent transformation of the Nation-state into something different. He finds the post-urban society, in both ends of the economic and social spectrum: the suburban secluded communities, light-years away from the poor, living in fortresses protected from the immediate outside and connected to the remote through computer terminals. And the slums, the Indian reservations, the misery belts, ridden with gangs and night shootings and strange people alienated from the modern comfort. Kaplan finds that the federal government is increasingly irrelevant for the determination of where the nation is going to. The City-state is more likely than the nation, in the future. The world transforming itself every day, under our very eyes.	2000-10-29
2228747:US	49263512	R1RCV8Q46YR5EQ	0679767495	771111727	In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam	Books	4	18	22	N	N	It takes courage and guts	I am not an American. I was born in 1969. So I have no direct emotional connection to Vietnam. I respect people who do. But I can not agree with reviewers like Labradorman -otherwise a good reviewer- when he says: &quot;Boycott this book&quot;. I can't see how boycotting the personal account of one of the leading protagonists of this drama can help understand what happened and why. McNamara is implaccable with himself and his mistakes, generous to his colleagues, and noble to the presidents he served. And yet, throughout the book it is clear that one of the officials who always had second thoughts and always pushed for further analysis was McNamara himself. A personal account supported by an impressive documental research, this book deserves to be read, for the personal advantage of the reader. It should be read not only by people interested in Vietnam, but by any one with an interest in public administration, government, and high-level decision making. This is a tour de force in the guts of one of the most formidable machines of government humankind has devised: the American government. We can see here how, even &quot;the best ans the brightest&quot; can make fatal -literally fatal- mistakes. We can see how the Cold-War mind affected every other decision.  Points of interest: the position of the Joint Chiefs, always asking for more bombing and more soldiers; the conduct of undersecretary of State George Ball, one of the most sensible; the frivolous conduct of an inadequate ambassador, like Henry Cabot Lodge; and, of course, the tension and hesitation of McNamara. One can only hope more public officials would write honest and courageous books.	2000-10-29
2229669:US	49263512	R200SSTP16059Z	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A deep journey	Marlowe must travel up the Congo river, find the mythical ivory trader Kurtz, and take him back to the coast. In each step of the journey, Marlowe lives in an opressive, dehumanizaed atmosphere, surrounded by cruel employees of an ivory-trading company, and by black slaves. After days of tense travel in the midst of the jungle, Kurtz is found. And oh!, he is found to be more than just a legend.  An ill Kurtz reigns on a closed universe, with a total absence of any points of reference to the outside world. Kurtz has gone deep into the heart of darkness. Conrad's prose is dense, precise, accurate. The tale is elusive, nuanced. You have to guess what is going on and, especially, what has happened. In the end, it is Kurtz himself who summarizes the book: &quot;The horror! the horror!&quot;.	2000-10-28
2230003:US	49263512	R1EXS6CDL71QOF	0679751238	939095964	The Ends of the Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from Iran to Cambodia, a Journey to the Frontiers of Anarchy	Books	5	33	36	N	Y	The possible fracture lines	I give this book five stars for one reason: it is important to read it and to keep thinking about its main subject: the future of the nation-state and the possible consequences of its demise. Kaplan knows he is going to be subjective. That's fine. He is well-read and travels with a good piece of luggage: previous knowledge of the history of the places he's going to -unlike most of the backpackers he correctly mocks at-.  Kaplan is a good writer. He goes to fascinating and really different places. But the important thing about the book is his reflections on the future of the world, from the standpoint of these societies. This book takes us to some of the places where the future of humanity will be decided, within the next decades. These are regions in crisis, in its clinical, primary meaning: artificial borders, paper-States, overpopulation, an exhaustion of natural resources, forced and vertiginous urbanization, and one more thing: the rapid increase in violent religious fanatism, as a consequence of the erosion of identity in the misery-ridden slums of the Third World. The rank-and-file of the fundamentalist threats is formed by poor peasants who suddenly had lo leave their land and become lumpen-proletariats in Cairo, Ankara or some other megalopolis. West Africa, Egypt, Turkey, Iran, Central Asia, the Indian subcontinent, and Southeastern Asia, are &quot;fracture lines&quot;. These regions are living the beginning of the end of the Nation-state as the basic cell of human political organization, only in the other end of the spectrum, compared with the European Union. And yet there is hope. As in Rishi Valley, what we still call the Third World need not be lost for peace, prosperity and a promising future. At least, not all of it. For that outcome to happen, the West has to turn its eyes and minds to help. Clearly, the West can not do what these peoples themselves are not willing to do. But the West must help when it is possible. The elites of these nations must come to terms with their responsibilities in leading their peoples out of the bleak way in which some of them are embarked. It is possible, but first we have to know the problems. And Kaplan is helping with his books.	2000-10-28
2245348:US	49263512	R3H76ZLKK6L28S	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Read it alone, at night	I was 12 when I first read this -before watching the movie-. I read it alone, at night, and going to the bathroom became a terrifying experience. Certainly, the book is an excellent piece of horror. Its merit is that it is not just a horror story. It evolves in the context of the life of a man, Jack Torrence, who is fighting against failure, frustration and alcoholism. He replicates his tormented father-son relationship with his son, the young and special Daniel. Daniel can &quot;shine&quot;, that is, experience ultrasensorial perception. When his father is offered a winter-time job at the Overlook hotel, in the Colorado Rocky Mountains, things become really strange for the family. For the Overlook hotel has a history enclosed in its walls. Daniel, with the help of his imaginary (or is it not?) friend Tony, discovers the true story of the hotel and the murders committed there. I won't spoil anything. Just read it, it is a quick read, without many interruptions. You will get caught in a really freezing terror.	2000-10-15
2255315:US	49263512	R1AQQFLTDFG6G0	0891902155	145164982	The Little World of Don Camillo	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Humorous lessons in tolerance	I first read Don Camilo when I was 13. The thing that I have always liked the most about this book is its central lesson: it is possible to fight about ideologies, but when the community is in danger, we must forget the fight and help our neighbors. We'll continue the fuss later. Episode after episode, Don Camilo, the local priest, and Peppone, the communist mayor, confront each other, sometimes in a serious and violent way. But every time, both men negotiate their way out of trouble. That is a related lesson: public enemies / private friends. When you finish the book, indeed, you get a feeling that these two enemies and rivals have developed, over the years and innumerable shared experiences, a friendship that is deeper than most people's relationships.  I like very much the parts when, in the midst of a crisis, Peppone and Don Camilo run secret negotiations in the middle of the night.  But if you think this is a &quot;rosy&quot; book, full of childish situations, you are wrong. The problems that both characters have to solve are often deep and painful. This is the best kind of educational book, because it does not really have a &quot;moral&quot;. The intelligent reader -and most children are- gets his own conclusions in a funny and humorous way.  Those are the lessons likely to stay for life. A lovely book.	2000-10-07
2255483:US	49263512	RHE49U7INCA6W	0140022651	798845768	Journey to the Centre of the Earth	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Talk about adventure	Thankfully, geology was not as advanced in Verne's times as it is today. For it allowed him, a man of impressive imagination, to write about adventures in a fantastic journey to the center of the Earth. From Iceland to Italy, the travelers -typical Verne characters- experience the most fascinating and fearsome events. The way Verne depicts the deep underground is colorful and magical. The crossing of a wide sea, with a stone ceiling as sky, and pre-historic monsters fighting to death, is terrific.  This is a wonderful book of adventures. The reader will find all sorts of surprises and vivid descriptions.	2000-10-07
2255812:US	49263512	R3OTHOI9BUQ1NA	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A &quot;quality bestseller&quot;	Certainly a good book, The Godfather is one of those commercial bestsellers that stay popular, thanks to the quality of its main features: the plot is intriguing and gripping; the characters are well developed, and the world of the mafia is always fascinating. But the most important characteristic of this book is that it inaugurated a sub-genre that romanticizes the world of the mob. The bosses are no longer vulgar thugs in the streets. They are refined people, with wonderful houses, good manners, who listen opera and conduct business in a sophisticated fashion. And yet, they remain extremely violent people, capable of cruel atrocities and treasons.  The Godfather is a book that slips easily through your hands, because there is not much to reflect upon: it is a truly good action book. Things happen one right after the other, establishing a chain of violent events that lead to the transformation of the New York mob amid violent fighting.  It makes you want to be a mafiosi (though not one of the dead ones). Of course, the films derived from this book are excellent, true classics of cinema.	2000-10-07
2262968:US	49263512	R2MKCXIP13UJ58	9684160208	572306083	Corazn	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Values for children	Corazon is a good book for children, but I guess very few of them read it now. It is about the most basic values of love for parents, other kids and people in general. The stories are moving and call to your heart, but this world is moving fastly out of that kind of reading and into the violent heart of today's life. It is the diary of a young kid in Italy at the end of last century, and every month the teacher reads them a story which talks about a specific value.	2000-10-02
2263109:US	49263512	R65YLG46QF2QA	0745103340	785850783	Just - William (Lythway Large Print Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Is it over?	Is good literature for children over? Do we have to conform ourselves with horrible pictures of violent and perverted cartoons? I am definitely not a moralist, but I grew up in a world where you could read Guillermo (William) and find good, interesting adventures by a bunch of outlaw kids, doing innocent but funny things in England, and feel identified with them ,even if you were a Mexican kid from the Northern desert, That is what I call universal identification. I hope these books will be available again soon, because the are very good. And Very funny.	2000-10-02
2267695:US	49263512	R102BM76M0KSKP	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	5	9	14	N	N	The Balkans in beauty and horror	This is an unforgettable book. It is a strictly personal testimony of one of the most troubled parts of the world, in all human history. Kaplan is not just a journalist, nor a historian, nor a political analist. He is an extremely well-read man, informed about the place he is travelling around (something you can not say about most journalists). Do not expect to find utmost objectivity here. Kaplan does not pretend to be objective, just fair. What is the key to his success? It is this: his readings, the fact that he establishes personal bonds with people who give him insights and, most of all, his intelligence. Kaplan is never sentimental, but he is sympathetic and really tries to understand what goes on. Of course, he filters facts through his Western background. It is the honest thing to do. If you read this, you will gain a lot of ground in understanding the uncomprehensible things that happen, even today as I write, in that crucial corner of the world. Kaplan warned the world about what was going to happen there. It did. And now, all we have is this excellent account of what the Balkans are, why, and how. Kaplan follows the path traced by other writers in his genre, like Ryszard Kapuscinski and Rebecca West herself. We need more of these witnesses to history, even if we do not agree with them all the time.	2000-09-28
2267799:US	49263512	R3R0V2LLHNF0EU	0804730466	219645643	The Life and Times of Pancho Villa	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Rigorous history that is more exciting than fiction	Probably, the most important thing about this book is the fact that, though its subject is one of the most misunderstood characters of world history, it rests on an extremely rigorous research. Prof. Katz, one of the most serious and best historians you can read, and a specialist in Mexico, sought and found every available source of information. His history is as objective as it could be. But this is much more than just a biography of Pancho Villa; it is a history of the Mexican Revolution that develops around Villa and his movement.  Besides, the life of Villa is more impressive, exciting and interesting than many, many fictional characters, even when the historian puts the legends aside and stays within the boundaries of solid data. It is really a pity that most people have an idea of Villa which comes from easy novels (like &quot;The friends of Pancho Villa&quot;). These novels may be good or bad, but most of the time they are pure fantasy. For example, most of them paint Villa as a bandit who led a disorderly band of killers. Well, surprise! Villa, who certainly had a past as an outlaw, managed to organize the most formidable war machine of the Revolution. During the 1910-1911, and 1913-1915 campaigns, his army was the best in terms of logistics, organization, discipline, morale, and strategy (until Villa made serious mistakes and Obregon defeated him). And more surprises: of all the revolutionary armies, Villa's was the most disciplined in terms of their behavior. Villa strongly prohibited and punished vandalism, rapes, destruction and raids. This is not to say they were a band of angels, but their cruelty and the devastation they created must be put in context. Carranza's army was much more terrible, and Carranza was no bandit, but a wealthy landowner. Anyway, this is a magnificent piece of work, extremely readable. Of course, it will not satisfy the reviewer below, who was looking for ten minutes of information in the Brittanica (very flawed, by the way), orthe person who was looking just for &quot;stories&quot; and less &quot;information&quot;. This, though extremely enjoyable, is serious history for serious readers who, along the way, find the amazing story of a contradictory man, with great wits, poor education, no significant traces of corruption (he had multiple opportunities to steal, run and keep the money, and never did it), extreme attitudes of cruelty, ruthlesness, violence, and also generosity, tenderness, and loyalty. Neither simple bandit nor saint: just an extraordinary man living in the hardest of times, escaping from death time after time, until the last time. Fictional characters don't get more amazing and historians don't get any better.	2000-09-28
2272018:US	49263512	RWXECW91JTZV3	0393964523	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	26	30	N	N	An underrrated masterpiece	Unfortunately, this book suffered the fate of many other masterpieces: be classified in the &quot;children&quot; bookshelf. That guarantees most editions will be abridged, censored, and forgotten, since kids today read very little and waste their time playing with horrendous japanese toys. Enough lecturing. This is a book about a man who, yes, goes through many adventures, and in the way finds himself. This is not the story of a man who goes through pleasant experiences, enjoying adventure. He suffers very much finding himself alone for many years, having to survive by himself in the midst of a desert island. The book is narrated in the first person, so it's a long monologue by a truly lonely man. His reflections are deep and moving. It's good that this is a complete and unabridged edition, since the first part is usually severed from the rest, which is a pity because it puts the whole story in context. This is a fun but also an interesting reading.	2000-09-24
2272837:US	49263512	R3W4LSQISTW1LL	842045706X	465106260	Sandokan (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A pity that english-speaking people don't read this	I give this book five stars in its genre. Salgari was one of the best writers of adventure in its purest form. His tens of books depict swashbuckling adventures all over the world: in Malaysia and Indonesia; in the Caribbean, in Canada and New England, in the Far West (cowboys vs. indians), etc. Of all his books, the Sandokan series is the most famous, justifiedly. Sandokan is the owner of an island, Mompracem, which serves as his base of operations against the evil european occupiers of the islands. Of course, Sandokan is not bad, he's social rebel. So what, the important thing about this book and the rest of the series is the fact that you get into a different world, rolling around the archipelago on pirate ships, attending exciting battles on the sea, rescuing beauties from the hands of bad guys, getting lost in enormous jungles, escaping from tigers, living to the top. I definitely don't understand why it is so difficult to find Salgari's works in English. Lucky I'm Mexican and it is pretty easy to find unexpensive editions of all his works. I grew up fighting my way around in every corner of the world, thanks to Verne, Salgari and others. It is wonderful to be a kid and have this kind of experiences, through reading. Absolutely recommended, as other reviewers have said, for kids of all ages.	2000-09-24
2277441:US	49263512	R1A35NYRJJOPS3	0452262496	648256465	Lust for Life	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A remarkable accomplishment	The accomplishment refers to the writing of Irving Stone. Starting from the collected letters Vincent sent to his younger brother Theo during his life, Stone does something very good: he writes a fictionalized biography  without, at the same time, tampering with history. This is a novel as much  as a biography. Stone invents dialogues, but they do not become fantasy.  Anyway, the book is really moving, I read it 18 years ago and I still  remember details of it, much more than some books I read last year. The  most important thing about this book is that you get to be inside a great  artist's life, being witness to his transformation, from a troubled but  well-to-do art merchant (his uncles were among the most important in  Europe, his father being a religious man), to his stay at the Netherlands  trying to find his soul, to Belgium living in the midst of the terrible  poverty of the coal-mine workers (and starting to draw), to Paris, where he  dives into artistic life, learning very much in the way; to Arles and days  with Gauguin, where his mind starts to go astray, to Auvers. [...] this  book is very good indeed. Give it a try and you'll find a life you'll never  forget.	2000-09-20
2284561:US	49263512	R3KXPGQ4E141L8	0735101442	221201075	Makers of the Modern World: The Lives of Ninety-Two Writers, Artists, Scientists, Statesmen, Inventors, Philosophers, Composers, and Other Creators Who Formed the Pattern of Our Century	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An excellent introduction to the landmarks of modern history	This books contains biographical essays about the people who have shaped  our modern world, for good and bad. It is a fascinating story, since its  chronological order allows the reader to explore the evolution of the  modern world from every aspect: science, art, philosophy, politics, war.  Many of the lives involved are intertwined, since the work of artists and  scientists are affected by what happens in the economic and political  arenas, and viceversa, and many of them were contemporaries and had  influence on each other, besides exchanging letters or getting involved in  debates. It starts with Newton, and from then on you are witness to the  most important landmarks in history: major scientific discoveries and  inventions, major works of art and political developments. I read this  first when I was a child (in the spanish edition), and it proved to be MY  introduction to Western culture. For example, I was impelled to read  Proust, since the essay contained here awoke my curiosity to find out the  importance and beauty of his prose. If you read this, you will have a very  good panoramic view of our history, including, as I said, art, science,  philosophy and politics. I would highly recommend it to anyone, especially  parents with high-schoolers. The style is serious but clear and  straightforward; the essays are short (8-12 pages)and try to stimulate  further reading, since they include a short list of bibliography to which  the interested reader can move on.	2000-09-13
2289721:US	49263512	RT9UNIE0OIHSM	0679743758	371416552	The Creators: A History of Heroes of the Imagination	Books	5	100	103	N	N	It is about the individual as a creator	I am totally dissatisfied with most reviews of this book. I think most of  that people did not understand what the book is all about. Boorstin traces,  wonderfully, in my opinion, the history of the individual as a creator of  original and personal ways to see and interpret the world. Of course, he  had to focus on the Western culture. I am amazed to read politically  correct people enraged about Boorstin's supposed &quot;trashing&quot; of  non-Western cultures, something I definitely didn't find in the book. He  describes exactly why it was the Western culture the one that allowed the  individual to become a real creator, not just a fine artisan. He never says  Western culture is &quot;better&quot;, only different in that it produced  the only way to be an artist: be an individual (for good and bad). And he  is right. The book is fascinating in the way it describes the rise of the  individual. Of course, the path he chose could have been different. But  it's very illustrative. The book can not be boring. It shows exactly the  kind of geniuses that created art. Most of them, by the way, lived  difficult and often tragic lives. I recommend it to every one interested in  finding out how and why modern art was born and developed. Besides, it is  full of interesting, even funny, anecdotes about the lives of the creators.  If you read it, it will be the best stimulus to see, read, and listen to  some of the most important creations of humankind.	2000-09-08
2289826:US	49263512	R2V5BY3NKMOPXM	0872203492	91981162	Plato: Complete Works	Books	5	12	17	N	N	One of the original branches of philosophy	The complete works of Plato constitute, besides a beautiful and pleasant  book, one of the two main branches of western philosophy, the other one  being Aristotle. To put it in simplistic terms, Plato is the root of  idealism, and Aristotle the root of realism. (For those not acquainted with  philosophy, idealism does not mean &quot;having ideals&quot; and realism  does not mean &quot;being realistic&quot; in common language). During the  next centuries, these seminal conceptions of the cosmos have influenced the  main schools in every field of human knowledge, sometimes in an intertwined  fashion: liberalism vs. socialism, in political science; liberalism vs.  realism, in international relations; and so on. Basically, Plato's  philosophy rests on the assertion that concrete, tangible things and beings  are nothing but imperfect reflections of the IDEA, that is, the perfect,  eternal and absolute being (cfr. the Myth of the Cave). Aristotle gives way  to the schools that treat things and beings as specific individuals or  exemplars which, while it is possible for some of them to be identical,  they still are different and concrete things or beings. Of course, this is  an over-oversimplification of Plato and Aristotle. The important thing to  remark is that Plato's work is one of the most important seeds of our  society and our way of viewing the cosmos. It has shaped our culture.  Besides, Plato's style of writing in vivid dialogues is most beautiful and  engaging, so there can hardly be another book which deserves a higher  recommendation. it is enjoyable and magical, you will come back to it  during your lifetime, to find revealing answers to hard questions.	2000-09-08
